PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 32 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 05 SEPTEMBER 2025
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the
advertisements of vacant posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the
Department is not responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an
advertisement must be addressed to the relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies,
knowledge and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the
department in which the vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST
PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries
to the department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration
must not be approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the
applicable closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies.
Potential candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies
and attending where applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15
(affirmative action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998
should be applied. Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote
representativeness through the filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose
transfer/appointment will promote representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to
employment in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding
the course please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENTS : DEPARTMENT OF TOURISM: Kindly note that the Deputy Director: Demand and
Logistics Management with Ref No: DT 02/2025 published in the Public Service Vacancy
Circular 27 dated 01 August 2025 and on the Departmental Website on 01 August 2025
with a closing date of 15 August 2025 is hereby withdrawn. We do apologize for any
inconvenience this may have caused. Enquires: Ms A Dreyer Tel No: (012) 444 6543
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: OFFICE OF THE PREMIER Kindly note that the
following one (01) post was advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 31 of 2025
dated 29 August 2025 with the closing date of 12 September 2025. The amendments are
as follows: (1) Assistant Director: Women & Gender Mainstreaming (Bhisho) with Ref No:
OTP 02/08/2025 are withdrawn. DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND
INFRASTRUCTURE: Kindly note that the following posts were advertised in Public
Service Vacancy Circular 31 of 2025 dated 29 August 2025 with the closing date of 12
September 2025. The amendments are only within the two (02) positions as follows: (1)
State Accountant: Salaries (Mount Ayliff) with Ref No: 21/08/2025, (2) State Accountant:
Salaries (Mount Ayliff) with Ref No: 22/08/2025 are withdrawn. DEPARTMENT OF
SPORT, RECREATION, ARTS AND CULTURE: Kindly note that the following six (6)
posts were advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 31 of 2025 dated 29 August
2025, The Department wishes to withdraw the following posts: (1) Deputy Director:
Research & Policy Development DSRAC 01/08/2025, (2) Deputy Director: Admin
Support & Coordination DSRAC 02/08/2025, (3) Chief Language Practitioner DSRAC
03/08/2025, (4) Sport Promotion Officer DSRAC 08/08/2025, (5) HR Officer DSRAC
09/08/2025, (6) School Sport Coordinator DSRAC 10/08/2025 and 11/08/2025. The
closing date remains 12 September 2025.
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG: DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL
DEVELOPMENT: Kindly note that the following post was advertised in Public Service
Vacancy Circular 31 dated 29 August 2025, Deputy Director: Administrative Support and
Coordination: (1 post) refs/023288 on 29/08/2025 under Head Office, (Office of the MEC)
has been withdrawn.
2
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
BASIC EDUCATION A 04 - 06
COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE B 07 - 08
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR C 09 - 21
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING D 22 - 45
INDEPENDENT POLICE INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE E 46 - 47
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT F 48 - 49
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE G 50 - 51
SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION H 52 - 53
SPORT, ARTS AND CULTURE I 54 - 56
TRANSPORT J 57 - 62
WATER AND SANITATION K 63 - 68
WOMEN, YOUTH AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES L 69 - 70
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
FREE STATE M 71 - 75
KWAZULU NATAL N 76 - 91
MPUMALANGA O 92 - 98
WESTERN CAPE P 99 - 162
3
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF BASIC EDUCATION
The Department of Basic Education is committed to providing equal opportunities and practicing
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote equity through the filling of all numeric
targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication
of race, gender and disability status is required. Preference will be given to underrepresented groups as
per the DBE Employment Equity Targets. Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Submitted via post to: Private Bag X895, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-deliver to: The
Department of Basic Education, 222 Struben Street, Pretoria or you can email
your application at Recruitment@dbe.gov.za. Please visit the Department of
Education’s website at www.education.gov.za or the Department of Public
Service and Administration vacancy circulars at www.dpsa.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms N Kumalo/ Ms M Mahape
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the most recently approved Z83 Application
for Employment Form, obtainable from the DBE Website or any Public Service
Department/Webpage. Use of the old Z83 Form will result in disqualification.
The Z83 must be completed in full and page 2 duly signed. A clear indication
of the post and reference number that is being applied for must be indicated
on your Z83. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 with a
detailed Curriculum Vitae (only). Certified copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents will be requested from shortlisted candidates on or before
the day of the interview. Successful candidates will be subjected to Personnel
Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset record checks,
qualification and employment verification including social media profiles).
Appointment is subject to positive results of the security clearance process.
The successful candidate will be required to sign an annual performance
agreement and, where applicable, annually disclose his/her financial interests.
All applicants are required to declare any conflict or perceived conflict of
interest, to disclose memberships of Boards and directorships that they may
be associated with. Applicants, who do not comply with the requirements
outlined above, will not be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 32/01 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR REF NO: DBE/02/2025
Branch: Finance and Administration
Chief Directorate: Human Resource Management, Development and Labour
Relations
Directorate: Human Resource Development and Social Responsibility
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognised three-years post matric qualification (NQF level 6)
or equivalent qualification; Three years’ relevant experience at supervisory
level, three years’ experience in relevant field; Good communication skills;
Writing skills; Sound interpersonal relations skills; Computer skills and
knowledge of legislative relevant to skills development and training.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will manage Skills Development and Training
programme, Departmental bursary programme, Induction programme,
learnership and internship programme; Develop the Workplace Skills Plan and
compiling the Annual Training Reports and training database; Assist with
administration and secretarial duties of the Skills Development and Training
Committee; Write submissions and reports on training activities; Assist with
skills audit and the management of training budget in the Directorate; Assist
with the implementation of Employee Health and Wellness Campaigns; Assist
with organising the Employee Health and Wellness programme; Assist with
employment equity and Diversity issues; Coordinate the Recognition of Prior
Learning Programme (PRL); Compile reports on skills development and
training programme to the DPME, DWYPD, DPSA, ETDP SETA and PSETA
respectively; Compile quarterly and annual reports on all employee health and
wellness activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mahape Tel No: (012) 357 3291/ Ms N Kumalo Tel No: (012) 357 3398
4
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted by post or hand or e-mail to: Private Bag X895,
Pretoria, 0001 or hand-deliver to: The Department of Basic Education, 222
Struben Street, Pretoria, 0001 or Recruitment@dbe.gov.za.
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise to
demonstrate their skills in a short task as part of the interview and will be
subjected to a security clearance. The successful candidate have to sign an
annual performance agreement, annually disclose his/ her financial interests
and be subjected to a security clearance.
POST 32/02 : SENIOR PERSONNEL OFFICER (RECRUITMENT & PMDS) REF NO:
DBE/03/2025 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Finance and Administration
Chief Directorate: Human Resource Management, Development and Labour
Relations
Directorate Human Resources Management and Administration
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : The applicant must be in possession of a Senior Certificate or equivalent
qualification; Knowledge of relevant policies and legislation is required; Good
organisational skills; Communication skills (verbal and written); Computer and
interpersonal relations skills are essential; Ability to deal with confidential
matters, work under pressure and work independently as well as part of a team.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for placing advertisements of
vacant posts; Sorting and capturing of applications forms received for
advertised posts; Arranging interviews; Taking minutes; Writing submissions
and memos; Compiling unsuccessful letters; Verifying qualifications and
criminal records; Assisting with Performance Management Development
System (PMDS); Filing of the Performance Agreement, Mid-Year Reviews and
Annual Assessment forms and capturing Performance Agreement, Mid-Year
Reviews and Annual Assessment on PERSAL; Arranging meetings and
performing any other duties delegated to you.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mahape Tel No: (012) 357 3291/ Ms N Kumalo Tel No: (012) 357 3398
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted by post or hand or e-mail to: Private Bag X895,
Pretoria, 0001 or hand-deliver to: The Department of Basic Education, 222
Struben Street, Pretoria, 0001 or Recruitment@dbe.gov.za
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise to
demonstrate their skills in a short task as part of the interview and will be
subjected to a security clearance. The successful candidate will have to sign
an annual performance agreement, annually disclose his/ her financial
interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
POST 32/03 : SENIOR PERSONNEL OFFICER (SERVICE BENEFITS AND
ADMINISTRATION) REF NO: DBE/04/2025 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Finance and Administration
Chief Directorate: Human Resource Management, Development and Labour
Relations
Directorate: Human Resources Management and Administration
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : The applicants must be in possession of a Senior Certificate or equivalent
qualification; Knowledge of relevant policies and legislation and PERSAL is
required; Good organisational, Communication skills (verbal and written);
Computer and interpersonal relations skills are essential; Ability to deal with
confidential matters, work under pressure and work independently as well as
part of a team.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for personnel administration, i.e
appointments (permanent, contracts and abnormal), transfers/promotions,
probations, leave, calculations of leave gratuities, service terminations,
pensions, staff establishment, housing, MMS and SMS salary structuring, long
service awards, etc; Capturing of transactions on PERSAL; Writing of
submissions, letters, memo's and circulars; Processing pension documents
and Injury on Duty (IOD) matters; Attending to internal and external HR
enquiries on HR procedures and policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mahape Tel No: (012) 357 3291/ Ms N Kumalo Tel No: (012) 357 3398
5
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted by post or hand or e-mail to: Private Bag X895,
Pretoria, 0001 or hand-deliver to: The Department of Basic Education, 222
Struben Street, Pretoria, 0001 or Recruitment@dbe.gov.za
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise
demonstrate their skills in a short task as part of the interview and will be
subjected to a security clearance. The successful candidate will have to sign
an annual performance agreement, annually disclose his/ her financial
interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
6
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE
The vision of the Department of Cooperative Governance is one of having a well co-ordinated system of
Government consisting of National, Provincial and Local spheres working together to achieve
sustainable development and service delivery. The Department intends to invest in human capital,
increase integrated technical capacity directed at service delivery and promote representivity in the
Department through the filling of this posts. The candidature of persons whose
appointment/transfer/promotion will promote representivity will therefore receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
NOTE : Applicants are advised that a new application for employment (Z83) has been
in effect since 1 January 2021. The new application for employment form can
be downloaded at http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applications
submitted using the old Z83 form will not be accepted. Applications must be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV, with specific starting and ending dates
in all relevant positions and clarity on the levels and ranks pertaining to
experience, as well as the current remuneration package, as well as at least 2
contactable references. Only shortlisted candidates will be requested to submit
certified documents/ copies on or before the interviews. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Incomplete applications or applications
received after the closing date will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to a technical exercise (or exercises/follow-up
engagements/second round interviews/or any other method) that intends to
test relevant technical elements of the job. Following the interview and
technical exercise(s), the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend
a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA
directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Core
competencies: Strategic capacity and leadership. People management and
empowerment. Advanced programme and project management. Change
management. Financial management. Process Competencies: Knowledge
management. Service Delivery Innovation. Advanced problem-solving and
analysis. Client orientation and customer focus. Advanced communication
skills (written and verbal). The successful candidate will be appointed to
positive results of a pre-employment screening process which includes
criminal, credit, citizenship checks and verification of educational qualification
certificates. The successful candidate will be appointed to probation for a
period of 12 months and will be required to sign a performance agreement. It
is important to note that it is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all
information and attachments in support of the application are submitted by the
due date. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you
have not been contacted within three months of the closing date of the
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right to make an appointment. People with disabilities
are encouraged to apply.
OTHER POSTS
POST 32/04 : WAGE ADMINISTRATOR REF NO: DCOG-WA
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent qualification. No experience required.
Proficiency in MS Excel and MS Word. Generic Competencies: Quality of work.
Initiative. Reliability. Interpersonal Relations. Planning and Execution.
Teamwork. Communication (verbal and written). Technical Competencies:
Knowledge of Data management administration. EPWP/CWP MIS. Public
Finance Management Act. Payroll system.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Verify the personal
information of all new CWP participants and amendments to the information of
existing participants for completeness, compliance, and authenticity. Confirm
the correctness of the payment information for each CWP participants and
effect pre-approval and submit for second level approval. Liaise with site
management staff on outstanding and/or incorrect personal and payment
7
information. Follow-up progress with payments, payment rejections and
resubmit. Administer CWP wage payment queries, deactivation of all ineligible
and ghost participants.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tshepo Motau at 079 690 7830
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
Recruitment04@cogta.gov.za
POST 32/05 : SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: DCOG-SO
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent qualification and registration with PSIRA
Grade C. No experience required. Proficiency in MS Excel and MS Word.
Other: Basic Security Officer Training. Generic Competencies: Quality of work.
Initiative. Reliability. Interpersonal Relations. Planning and Execution.
Teamwork. Communication (verbal and written). Technical Competencies:
Knowledge of National security environment and security policies. Relevant
legislation related to public security and access control, including the Minimum
Information Standards (MISS) act. Relevant emergency procedures.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Ensure effective
access control function. Patrolling and monitoring of the premises. Ensure full
completeness of security registers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Derek Pretorius Tel No: (012) 334 4710
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
Recruitment05@cogta.gov.za
8
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 00:00 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the correct
job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your email.
Use the correct email address associated with the post. JPEG
(picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Failure to do so, your
application will be disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference
number must be submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements. The
requirements for application of Senior Management Services (SMS) include
the successful completion of a SMS Pre-entry programme (Nyukela) as
endorsed by the National School Government (NSG). Prior to appointment, a
candidate should therefore have proof that they have registered for the Pre-
Entry Certificate and have completed the course. The cost for Nyukela is at the
applicants own expense. The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entryprogramme/. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to
a technical competency exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job, the logistics of which be communicated by the Department,
following the interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will
recommend candidates to attend generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Suitable candidates will
be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit
record checks, qualification verification and employment verification). Please
note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to the collection,
processing, and storing of your Personal Information in accordance with the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) Your information will be used
soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with third parties
without prior consent unless required by law. If you have not been contacted
within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. The Department reserves the
right not to make any appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s). The
successful candidate will be required to enter into an employment contract and
9
a performance agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative
action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform
the employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity
(race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 32/06 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: MEDICAL BENEFITS REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/24
Re-advertisement applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum, (all inclusive)
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : MBCHB Degree, or any NQF 7 in Healthcare and Allied Health Related
qualification/ or Bcom Accounting/ Business Science/ Bachelor of Science in
Finance. Five (5) years’ appropriate experience at a Senior Management
Service level in Medical Claims Processing environment. Statutory Body
Requirements: If an incumbent is a Practitioner, registration with HPCSA and
or SANC is required. Knowledge: ICD 10 Coding and Medical Billing. DeL and
Compensation Fund business strategies and goals. Directorate goals and
performance requirements. Compensation Fund Services. Compensation
Fund Value Chain and business processes. Public Service Regulations.
Relevant stakeholders. Customer Services (Batho Pele Principles). Fund
Values. Required IT knowledge. DPSA guidelines on COIDA. Technical
knowledge. Legislative Requirement: COIDA Act, Regulations and Policies.
Public Service Act. Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS). PFMA and.
National Treasury Regulations. Promotion of Access to Information Act. PAIA.
Constitution Act 108 of 1996 (amended). General knowledge of the Public
Service Regulations. Skills: Strategic Capability and Leadership. Programme
and Project Management. Financial Management. Change Management.
Knowledge Management. Service Delivery Innovation (SDI). Problem Solving
and Analysis. People Management and Empowerment. Client Orientation and
Customer Focus. Communication.
DUTIES : Provide research and best practice standards regarding medical services to
support the Funds compensation services. Oversee the Adjudication of
medical claims and processing of medical accounts. Establish and maintain
high-level relationship with various internal and external stakeholders. Manage
the operations of the Chief Directorate and resources (Human, Finance,
Equipment, Asset) in the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. F Fakir Tel No: (012) 885 8624
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or direct your
application to: Jobs-CF1@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply
POST 32/07 : DIRECTOR: COID SERVICES (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all -inclusive)
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mpumalanga Ref: No: HR 5/1/2/3/25 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: Limpopo Ref: No: HR 5/1/2/3/26 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) as recognized by SAQA in Public
Administration/ Public Management/ Operations Management/ Production
Management/ Business Management/ Business Administration/ Administrative
Management/ Management/ Financial Accounting/ Cost and Management
Accounting/ Auditing/ MBCHB/HRM/Nursing/ Occupational Therapy. 5 years’
functional experience at middle/senior management level in Claim processing
or Medical Claims or Insurance processing environment. Knowledge:
Knowledge of relevant regulations, laws and legislation. Claims litigation. Post
claims management settlement. Brand and Customer Oriented Service
Delivery. Patient care. Rehabilitation Legislation & Regulatory knowledge &
Implementation. Medical and Rehabilitation Policy Management. Digital
Acumen/ Medical Systems (IT Systems Control Designs). Treasury Policies
and PFMA Regulations (Legislative Framework). Compensation Fund
business strategies and goals. Public Service Act. The Constitution of RSA.
10
Public Service Regulation. Compensation Fund value chain. Directorate goals
and performance requirements. Customer Service (Batho Pele Principles).
Technical knowledge. Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS). National
Treasury Regulations. Promotion of Access to Information Act. National Health
Act. Claims Finalization. Employer Audits. Employer Verification. Allied Health
Profession Act. Integrate National Disability Strategy (INDS). Legislative
Requirement: COIDA. Skills: Claims management and legal cost assessment
and settlement. Social entrepreneurship. Digital acumen. Clinical cost
management. Programme/Project Planning & Management. Clinical
Vocational Rehabilitation. Monitoring and assurance. Research and
Development. Claims registration. Communication verbal and writing.
Analytical Thinking. Performance and oversight. Principles and Strategies.
Reporting. Coaching and Mentoring. Conflict Management. Critical and
Innovative Thinking. Direction setting. Inspire Commitment. People
Management. Performance and oversight. Programme/Project Management.
Quality Assurance. Risk Management. Service Delivery Innovation.
Stakeholder Development & Relations. Vision & Strategy.
DUTIES : Oversee and monitor the implementation of Compensation Benefits Policies
and Strategies in the province. Manage and monitor the implementation of
rehabilitation strategy for COID patients. Oversee the provision of medical
benefits in the province. Establish and maintain the stakeholder relationship in
relation to COID activities. Manage all resources in the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Rev MG Sibanyoni Tel No: (013) 655 8700
Ms MS Lebogo Tel No: (015) 290 1662/ 1768/1699
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X7263, Emalahleni, 1035 or
hand deliver at: Labour Building, Corner of Hofmeyer Street and Beatty
Avenue, Emalahleni. Email to: Jobs-MP-COID@LABOUR.gov.za For
Attention: Human Resource Management Mpumalanga Provincial Office
Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X9368, Polokwane, 0700 or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane. Email to: Jobs-
LP@LABOUR.gov.za for attention: Human Resource Management Limpopo
Provincial Office.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 32/08 : DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/27
Re-Advertisement applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all inclusive)
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in Internal Audit/ Accounting/ Cost
and Management Accounting. Certified Internal Auditor – CIA is required.
Professional Internal Auditor Certification – PIA as an added advantage.
Statutory Body Requirements: Institute of Internal Auditors. 5 years’ experience
at a middle/ senior management level in an internal audit environment.
Knowledge: Compensation Fund policies, procedures, processes.
Performance Audit standard. Internal Audits standards. Customer Relationship
Management. Budgeting and Financial Management. COIDA. Relevant
stakeholders. Batho Pele Principles. Legislative Requirement: PFMA. National
Treasury Regulations. Skills: Required Technical proficiency. Business Writing
Skills. Analytical thinking. Decision making. Communication (verbal and
written). Customer Focus and Responsiveness. People and Performance
Management. Managing inter-personal conflict and Problem solving. Planning
and organizing. Team leadership. External Environment Awareness.
DUTIES : Oversee the Compliance and Assurance Audits, ICT Audits, and Performance
Audits of the Fund in line with the relevant legislation, regulations and
standards. Provide strategic leadership to the audit function of the Fund.
Manage stakeholders and monitor the performance of the internal audit
function of the Fund. Manage and maintain quality assurance and improvement
program that covers all aspects of the internal audit activity. Manage resources
in the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. F Fakir Tel No: (012) 885 8624
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or direct your
application to: Jobs-CF1@labour.gov.za
11
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply
POST 32/09 : DIRECTOR: ANTI CORRUPTION AND INTEGRITY REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/28
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all inclusive)
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in Internal Auditing or Finance or
Forensic Investigation/ Auditing, BProc, LLB. 5 years’ experience at
middle/senior management level in Forensic Investigations or Auditing or
Legal. Knowledge: International Standards on Auditing and Techniques.
International Standards of Fraud Examiners. Computer Assisted Auditing
Techniques (CAATS). Control Objectives for Information and Related
Technologies (COBIT). Law of Evidence. Project Management. Extensive
understanding of fraud, corruption risks and effective risk management
techniques. Legislative Requirements: Protected Disclosure Act 26 of 2000.
Promotion of Access to information Act 2 of 2000. The Prevention of Organized
Crime Act, as amended, (generally referred to as “POCA”). Prevention and
Combating of Corrupt Activities Act, 12 of 2004 (generally referred to as
“PRECCA”). Public Finance Management Act, 1999 (Act No. 1 of 1999) (as
amended by Act No. 29 of 1999). Treasury Regulations Issued in terms of the
Public Finance Management Act, 1999. Public Sector Risk Management.
Public Administration Management Act 2014 (Act 11 of 2014). Promotion of
Administration Justice Act No.3 of 2000. Criminal Procedures Act 51 of 1977.
Protection of Personal Information Act. National Prosecuting Authority Act No.
32 of 1998. Financial Intelligence Centre Act No. 38 of 2001. Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Act, 5 of 2000. COIDA. Skills: Strong
interviewing. Interpersonal. Strong Report Writing. Computer skills.
Investigative. Strong Analytical. Policy formulation. People development and
empowerment. Strategic management and leadership. Facilitation. Conflict
management. Problem solving. Financial Management.
DUTIES : Manage the prevention of Fraud and Corruption. Detect Fraud and corruption
through development and management and application of Fraud Detection
Techniques. Manage the fraud investigation services within the Fund. Manage
resources within the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. F Fakir Tel No: (012) 406 5723
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or direct your
application to: Jobs-CF1@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
OTHER POSTS
POST 32/10 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PENSION PAYMENTS REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/29
Re-advertisement applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply.
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) as recognized by SAQA in Financial
Management/ Internal Audit/ Financial Accounting/ Auditing/ Cost and
Management Accounting. 4 years’ functional experience in Pensions/ Payroll
Administration/ Benefits service environment. Knowledge: Policy
Conceptualization and Formulation. Claims Administration. Claims
Registration. Claims Investigations. Claims Management and Legal Cost
assessment and settlement. Claims litigations. Claims Finalization. Knowledge
of Relevant Legislation (Constitution, PFMA, PSRs, NTRs, ILO conventions,
PAIA, POPIA, OHSA, RAFA, Marriage Act, Estate Law, UIA, Recognition of
Customary Marriages Act, COIDA). Compensation Fund policies, procedures
and processes. Fund Governance and Risk Management. Legislative
Requirements: COIDA. Skills: Claims Assessment/ Settlement. Post claims
management and settlement. Claims handling. Claims verification and
12
validation. Conflict Management. Critical and Innovative Thinking. Inspire
Commitment. Programme/ Project Management. Quality Assurance.
Knowledge Management. Service Delivery Innovation. Stakeholder
Development & Relations.
DUTIES : Provide inputs into the pensions payment policy. Approve pension payments
and monitor correct banking details database. Release pensions payments for
both local and foreigner pensioners. Establish and maintain relations with
stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Y Tshidada at 060 989 8361
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or direct your
application to: Jobs-CF11@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 32/11 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CLIENT SERVICES (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Gauteng Provincial Office Ref: No: HR 5/1/2/3/30 (X3 Posts)
Provincial Office: Kwa-Zulu Natal Ref: No: HR 5/1/2/3/31 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: Free State Ref: No: HR 5/1/2/3/32 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: Northern Cape Ref: No: HR 5/1/2/3/33 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) as recognized by SAQA in
Customer Services/ Management/Customer Relations /Contact Centre
Management/ Office Administration Management /Communication/ Marketing.
4 years’ functional experience in a Public Management of which 2 years is
supervisory experience in processing environment. Knowledge: Relevant
regulations, laws and legislation. Public Service Act. Public Service
Regulations. Compensation Fund business strategies and goals.
Compensation Fund business strategies and goals. Compensation Fund value
chain. Directorate goals and performance requirements. PFMA and Treasury
Regulations. Customer Service (Batho Pele Principles). Occupational Health
and Safety Act (OHS). Promotion of Access to Information Act. The Constitution
of RSA. Legislative Requirements: Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act. Skills: Coaching and Mentoring. Conflict Management.
Critical and Innovative thinking. Inspire Commitment. People Management.
Performance and Oversight. Programme/Project Management.
Quality/Assurance. Risk Management. Service Delivery Innovation.
Stakeholder Development & Relations. Vision & strategy.
DUTIES : Monitor and oversee client support services in Provinces. Monitor the
implementation of service delivery improvements at Provinces. Champion and
implement Batho Pele Principles in Provinces.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Mokoena Tel No: (011) 853 0312
Mr TB Gumede Tel No: (031) 366 2355
Ms E Maneli Tel No: (051) 505 6203
Ms S Kleinsmith Tel No: (053) 838 1517
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 4560, Johannesburg, 2001.
Or hand deliver at Department Employment and Labour, No. 47 Empire Road,
Parktown, 2193. For online Applications Email to: jobs-GP1@labour.gov.za For
Attention: Human Resource Management Gauteng Provincial Office.
Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 940, Durban, 4000 or hand
deliver at: 267 Anton Lembede Street, Durban. For online Applications Email
to: Jobs-KZN8@labour.gov.za For Attention: Human Resource Management
KwaZulu Natal Provincial Office.
Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein,
9300 or hand deliver at Labour House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street,
Bloemfontein. For online Applications Email to: Jobs-fs1@labour.gov.za For
Attention: Human Resource Management Free State Provincial Office.
Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X5012, Kimberley, 8301
Or hand deliver at Cnr Compound and Pniel Road. For online Applications
Email to: Jobs-NCKIM@labour.gov.za For Attention: Human Resource
Management Northern Cape Provincial Office.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply
13
POST 32/12 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HR OPERATIONS REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/34
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) as recognized by SAQA in Human
Resource Management. 4 years’ functional experience in human resource
administration and recruitment and selection environment of which 2 years at
a supervisory level. Knowledge: Human Resource Management Methodology,
Principles and Strategies. Digital Acumen/ Relevant HRM systems/ Learning
Systems/ Performance Systems etc. Del and Compensation Fund business
strategies and goals. COIDA. DPSA Directives. Customer Service principles
(Batho Pele Principles). Technical knowledge. Budgeting and Financial
Management. Labour Relations Act. Employment Equity Act. Basic Conditions
of Employment Act. Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). National
Treasury regulations. Preferential Procurement Policy Framework. Promotion
of Access to Information Act. Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA).
Minimum Information security standard (MISS). Protection of Personal
Information ACT (POPI). Legislative Requirements: Public Service
Regulations. Public Service Act. Skills: Coaching and Mentoring. Conflict
Management. Critical and Innovative Thinking. Inspire Commitment. People
Management. Performance and oversight. Programme/ Project Management.
Quality Assurance. Risk Management. Service Delivery Innovation.
Stakeholder Development & Relations. Data Gathering, Analysis. Data/ Record
Management.
DUTIES : Coordinate recruitment and selection processes in the Fund. Coordinate the
administration Coordinate the administration of employee remuneration and
compensation matters. Coordinate the process on appointments, transfers and
secondments. Develop and maintain database for filled posts. Management of
resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MM Chuene at 060 531 5131
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or direct your
application to: Jobs-CF11@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 32/13 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT QUALITY ASSURANCE REF
NO: HR 5/1/2/3/35
Re-advertisement applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) as recognized by SAQA in Internal
Audit/ Accounting/ Cost and Management Accounting. Internal Audit
Technician Certification-IAT is required. Professional Internal Auditor-PIA as an
added advantage. Certificate in Performing Effective Quality Assessment
(PEQA) or Quality Assurance Assessor/ Validator as an added advantage. 4
years’ functional experience in Internal Audit of which 2 years is at supervisory
level within quality assurance environment. Knowledge: Compensation Fund
policies, procedures, processes. Internal Audits standards. Internal Audit
Charter. Customer Relationship Management. Fund Governance and Risk
Management. Budgeting and Finance Management. COIDA. Relevant
stakeholders. Batho Pele Principles. Legislative Requirements: Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). National Treasury Regulations. Skills:
Organizational Strategic Planning and Management. Information technology
management. Accounting and finance. Communication. Internal audit strategic
planning and management. Audit plan and coordinating assurance efforts.
Quality Assurance and Improvement Program.
DUTIES : Provide inputs and implement the internal audit quality assurance policies and
procedure manuals. Manage and monitor the promotion of quality assurance
within the IA directorate. Coordinate the Internal Audit directorate’s quality
assurance program and provide secretariat support to the Audit Committee.
Management of resources in the sub-directorate.
14
ENQUIRIES : Mr PS Zwane at 082 310 4510
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or direct your
application to: Jobs-CF11@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 32/14 : TECHNICIAN: TELECOMMUNICATIONS REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/36
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year qualification (NQF level 6) in Telecommunication and Information
Technology. 2 years’ experience in Telecommunication environment.
Knowledge: Compensation Fund Strategic Objective. Relevant stakeholders.
Customer Service (Batho Pele Principles). Technical Knowledge. SA Bureau
standard. Data records management. Legislative Requirements: Public
Service Regulations (PSR). Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS). Public
Service Act (PSA). Labour Relations Act. Batho Pele Principles. COIDA,
Regulations and Policies. PFMA and National Treasury Regulations.
Promotion of Access to Information Act. Environmental management Act.
Energy regulations. Building regulations. Skills: Required Technical proficiency.
Business Writing Skills. Required IT (Ms Office & Operating Skills).
Communication. Continuous improvement. Team collaboration. Planning and
organizing. Problem solving. Risk Management and Fund Governance.
External Environmental Awareness. Driving.
DUTIES : Provide telecommunication maintenance services in the Fund. Report Telkom
infrastructure when there is a failure. Maintain the safe working environment
by following the standards and policies. Develop and maintain
telecommunication database.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Pholose at 067 592 3598
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or direct your
application to: Jobs-CF11@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 32/15 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: EMPLOYER ASSESSMENT REF NO: HR
5/1/2/3/37
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year qualification (NQF level 6) in Financial Accounting/ Commerce. 2-
3 years’ experience in Financial accounting/ Finance/ insurance environment.
Knowledge: Compensation Fund values. Corporate governance guidelines
and strategies. Required Information technology knowledge. Customer
Services Principles (Batho Pele Principles). Understanding of risk
management and audit practices. COIDA. Knowledge of Financial Accounting.
Legislative Requirements: Compensation for occupational injuries and
diseases Act (COID), regulations and policies. Public finance Management Act
(PFMA), Public service regulations Act. Public Service regulations. Treasury
regulations. Skills: Strategic execution. Client orientation and customer focus.
Communication (verbal and written). Billing and assessment administration.
Financial compliance and reporting. Planning and organizing. Problem solving
and analysis. Decision making. Developing others. Computer skills. Conflict
management. Research skills. Stakeholder engagements.
DUTIES : Implement and monitor assessment of employer’s functions of the fund as per
policies and procedures. Review and recommend revisions of assessments
and approval of credit assessments. Verify the correctness of assessment
payable by all registered employers. Implement corrective measures for
internal and external audit findings. Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Mosala at 060 989 8324
15
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or direct your
application to: Jobs-CF11@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 32/16 : SENIOR CLAIMS ASSESSOR (SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER) REF
NO: HR 4/4/10/903
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: George (Western Cape)
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification degree (NQF7) or diploma (NQF6) in Public
Management/ Administration/ Social Science/ OHS/ Finance/ HRM is required.
Three (3) to five (5) years’ experience in a claims processing environment of
compensation or medical claims if highly desirable plus supervisory
experience. Knowledge: Knowledge Compensation Fund policies and
processes, Relevant Stakeholders, Human anatomy/ Biology and medical
terminology, Customer service (Batho Pele Principles), COID tariffs, Public
Service Charter, Risk awareness, COID tariffs, COID Act, Regulations and
Policies, constitution Act, Approved COID Delegations, Promotion of Access to
Information Act, Road Accident Fund (RAF), PFMA and Treasury Regulations,
COIDA, Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS) Skills: Required Technical
Proficiency, Numeracy, Business Writing, Required IT, Communication (written
and verbal), Data Capturing, Data and records management, Telephone
Etiquette.
DUTIES : Administer claim registration process. Adjudicate registered customer claims.
Prepare for payment claim. Quality assurance for Medical/ accounts payments.
Serve as a Team Leader/ Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Q Bowman Tel No: (021) 441 8120
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town or Email: Jobs-WC2@LABOUR.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Western Cape
POST 32/17 : PENSION ADMINISTRATOR REF NO: HR4/4/10/904
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : George Labour Centre (Western Cape)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year tertiary qualification at NQF6 in Public Management/ Public
Administration/ Social Science/ OHS/ Finance/ HRM. Two (2) years functional
experience in pension administration/ claims processing environment of a
financial nature. Knowledge: Compensation Fund objectives and business
functions, Compensation Fund Value Chain and business processes, Relevant
Fund policies, procedures and processes, Customer Service (Batho Pele
Principles), Risk Awareness, COID Tariffs, COIDA, Contribution Act, Public
Service Act, Occupation Health and Safety Act (OHS), PFMA and National
Treasury Regulations, Promotion of Access to Information. Skills: Required
Technical Proficiency, Communication (verbal, written, listening and
questioning skills), Fund Operating Systems, Data Capturing, Data and records
management, Telephone Skills and Etiquette, Planning and Organising,
Analytical thinking, problem solving and decision making.
DUTIES : Render pension administrative duties. Claims adjudication and processing.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Q Bowman Tel No: (021) 441 8120
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town or Email: Jobs-WC3@LABOUR.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Western
POST 32/18 : INSPECTOR: INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENTS SERVICES REF NO:
HR 4/4/10/905
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Mosel Bay (Western Cape)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year relevant tertiary qualification at NQF6 in Labour Relations/
BCOM Law/LLB. One (1) year functional experience in Inspection and
16
enforcement services. valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: departmental policies
and procedures, Skills Development Act, Labour Relations Act, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, skills Development Levies Act, Occupational
Health and Safety Act, COIDA, Unemployment Insurance Act, UI Contribution
Act, Employment Equity Act Skills: Planning and organizing, computer literacy,
interpersonal skills, conflict handling, negotiation skills, problem solving skills,
interviewing, listening and observing skills.
DUTIES : Plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA). Execute
investigations independently on reported cases pertaining to contravention of
labour legislation and enforce as and when necessary. Plan and conduct
proactive (blitz) inspection regularly to monitor compliance with labour
legislation. Conduct advocacy campaign on all Labour Legislation
independently. Draft and maintain inspection plans and reports including
analysing and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on only allocated
cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Q Bowman Tel No: (021) 441 8120
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town or Email: WCJobs-MBY@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Western Cape
POST 32/19 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: HR4/4/10/906
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Western Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year tertiary qualification National Diploma (NQF6) / Undergraduate
Bachelor Degree (NQF7) in Supply Chain Management/ Finance/ Public/
Business Administration. One (1) year functional experience in Supply Chain
or Finance Provisional Services. Valid driving license. Knowledge: Public
Financial Management Act. Skills: Supervision, Negotiating, Client orientation
and customer focus, Facilitation, Computer Literacy, Presentation, Analytical,
Communication.
DUTIES : Provide contract and tender management support to be in line with developed
relevant prescripts. Administer open and close tender processes in compliance
with SCM Policies and Treasury Regulations. Procure goods and services in
line with the relevant prescripts in the province. Provide inventory management
support to ensure effectiveness and efficient in the province. Manage all
resources in the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Q Bowman Tel No: (021) 441 8120
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town or Email: Jobs-WC4@LABOUR.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Western Cape
POST 32/20 : MAINTENANCE OFFICER: PLUMBING REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/38
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year qualification (NQF level 6) in Civil Engineering/ Plumbing. 1-year
functional experience in plumbing maintenance environment. Knowledge:
Compensation Fund business strategies and goals. Compensation Fund Value
Chain and business processes. Public Service, policies and procedures.
Customer Service (Batho Pele Principles). Building/ engineering technical
knowledge. Legislative Requirements: Occupational Health and Safety Act
(OHS) and OHS relevant Regulations. COIDA. Public Service Regulations.
Public Service Act. National Environment Management Act. Public Finance
Management Act. National Treasury Regulations. National Building
Regulations and Building Standard Act. Skills: Required Technical proficiency.
Decision making. Communication (Verbal and Written). Planning and
organizing. Problem solving. Project or programme management.
DUTIES : Perform scheduled plumbing preventative duties as per the maintenance plan
to support the objectives of the Fund. Conduct Plumbing systems assessment
to effect all unplanned repairs and maintenance needs. Assess and monitor
plumbing related contractors. Render administration duties for the section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MS Mokau at 060 971 4675
17
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or direct your
application to: Jobs-CF11@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 32/21 : MAINTENANCE OFFICER: MECHANICAL REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/39
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year qualification (NQF level 6) in Mechanical Engineering. 1-year
functional experience in mechanical maintenance environment. Knowledge:
Compensation Fund business strategies and goals. Compensation Fund Value
Chain and business processes. Public Service, policies and procedures.
Customer Service (Batho Pele Principles). Building/ engineering technical
knowledge. Legislative Requirements: Occupational Health and Safety Act
(OHS) and OHS relevant Regulations. COIDA. Public Service Regulations.
Public Service Act. National Environment Management Act. Public Finance
Management Act. National Treasury Regulations. National Building
Regulations and Building Standard Act. Skills: Required Technical proficiency.
Decision making. Communication (Verbal and Written). Planning and
organizing. Problem solving. Project or programme management.
DUTIES : Perform scheduled mechanical preventative duties as per the maintenance
plan to support the objectives of the Fund. Conduct mechanical component
assessment to effect all unplanned repairs and maintenance needs. Assess
and monitor mechanical related contractors. Render administration duties for
the section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MS Mokau at 060 971 4675
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or direct your
application to: Jobs-CF11@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 32/22 : ESTATE CLERK REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/40
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate (NQF 4). No experience. Knowledge: Public Financial
Management Act. Treasury Regulations. Public Service Regulations Act. Basic
Accounting Systems (BAS). COIDA. Skills: Communication (verbal and
written). Debt collection. Financial Management. Planning and organizing.
Computer literacy. Interpersonal. Conflict handling. Problem Solving.
DUTIES : Submit estate claims to master of high court and liquidator. Identify registered
employer’s estate. Raise assessment for liquidated or deceased employers.
Liaise with relevant stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Rankoana at 082 889 7369
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or direct your
application to: Jobs-CF13@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 32/23 : EMPLOYER ASSESSMENT CLERK REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/41 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with Accounting as a passed subject or equivalent qualification. No
Experience. Knowledge: Public Service, Department of labour and
Compensation Fund regulations, policies and procedures. Compensation Fund
Services. Compensation Fund Value Chain and Business processes.
18
Customer service Principles (Batho Pele Principles). DPSA guideline and
COIDA. PFMA. Treasury regulations. Legislative Requirement: COIDA Act,
Regulations and Policies. Public Service Act. POPIA. Skills: Communication
(Verbal and Written). Financial Management. Planning and Organising.
Computer Literacy. Interpersonal. Conflict handling. Problem Solving.
DUTIES : handle employer assessment process. Render revision of assessment
process. Perform general administration support activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Mosala at 060 989 8324
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or direct your
application to: Jobs-CF16@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 32/24 : INSPECTOR: INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT SERVICES REF NO:
HR4/4/10/907
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Bellville (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/907 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Oudtshoorn (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/908 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year relevant qualification at NQF6 in Labour Relations/ BCOM Law/
LLB. Valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Departmental Policies and procedures,
Skills Development Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of Employment
Act, Unemployment Insurance Act. Unemployment Insurance Contribution Act.
Skills: Facilitation, Planning and Organising (Own work), Computer (Spread
sheets, Power Point and word processing), Interpersonal, Problem Solving,
Interviewing, Analytical, Verbal and written communication, Employment Equity
Act.
DUTIES : Conduct occupational inspections with the aim of ensuring compliance with all
labour legislations. Execute investigations on reported cases pertaining to
contravention of labour legislation and enforce where and when necessary.
Conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with
labour legislation. Conduct advocacy campaigns on identified and allocated
labour legislation. Assist in drafting of inspection plans, reports and compilation
of statistics on allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Q Bowman Tel No: (021) 441 8120
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town or email: WCJobs-BELL@labour.gov.za
(Bellville)
WCJobs-OUD@labour.gov.za (Oudtshoorn)
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Western Cape
POST 32/25 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: COID REF NO: HR4/4/10/909
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Mitchell’s Plain (Western Cape)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/ Grade 12. No experience. Knowledge: All Labour Legislations
and Regulations, Private Employment Agency regulations and related ILO
conventions, Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act, Knowledge of the
Departmental Policies, Procedures and Guidelines, Batho Pele Principles.
Skills: Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, interviewing, Computer literacy,
Communication, Ability to interpret legislation, Problem Solving.
DUTIES : Render services at help desk as first point of entry within the Registration
Services. Render Employment Services to all the Clients who visit the Labour
Centre. Resolve all complaints on all Labour Legislations received from Clients.
Receive all Unemployment Insurance Benefits Applications and Employer
declarations. Receive application forms in terms of Compensation for Injuries
and Diseases Act (COIDA) and Employer registration forms for COIDA.
ENQUIRIES : M. Q Bowman Tel No: (021) 441 8120
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street Cape Town or Email: WCJobs-MP@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Western Cape
19
POST 32/26 : ADMINSTRATION CLERK REF NO: HR 4/4/10/536
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office (CF): Western Cape
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12/ Senior Certificate with 0 Months experience. Knowledge:
Compensation Fund Strategic Objectives, Relevant Stakeholders, Customer
Service (Batho Pele Principles), Technical Knowledge, COIDA guidelines,
Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act, Labour Relations Act, COIDA,
Regulations and Policies, PFMA and National Treasure Regulations. Skills:
Required Technical proficiency, Business Writing Skills, Require IT (MS Office
and Operation Skills), Communication, verbal and written, Problem Solving,
Planning and organising, Problem solving, Data Capturing, Data and records
management, Telephonic Etiquette, Risk Management and Fund Governance,
External Environmental Awareness.
DUTIES : Liaise with Provinces in respect of the provision of required information. Render
effective administration support services. Ensure correspondence of
documentation. Perform general administration functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Q Bowman Tel No: (021) 441 8120
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town or Email: Jobs-WC5@LABOUR.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Western Cape
POST 32/27 : PERSONNEL OFFICER: HR OPERATIONS REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/42
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/ Grade 12 Certificate (NQF 4). A three-year qualification in Human
Resource Management (NQF level 6) and Certificate in Introduction to
PERSAL system will be added as advantage. No experience. Knowledge:
Compensation Fund objectives and business functions. Directorate of sub-
directorate goals and performance requirements. Compensation Fund
Services. Compensation Fund Value Chain and business processes.
Stakeholders and customers. Customer Service (Batho Pele Principles). Risk
Awareness. COIDA Act, Regulations and Policies. Human Resource planning
procedure. Legislative Requirements: COIDA Act, Regulations and Policies.
Public Service Act. Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS). PFMA and
National Treasury Regulations. General knowledge of the Public Service
Regulations. Skills: Required Technical Proficiency. Business Writing Skills.
Data Capturing. Data and records management. Telephone Skills and
Etiquette.
DUTIES : Administer the filling of vacancies for the Fund. Administer HR information
systems. Administer recruitment and selection activities. Safe keep HR
records.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CL Mashishi at 067 927 6428
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or direct your
application to: Jobs-CF13@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 32/28 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: BANK RECONCILIATION REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/43
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric certificate (NQF 4). No experience. Knowledge:
Compensation Fund policies, procedures and processes. Customer Service
(Batho Pele Principles). COIDA. Financial control processes. Data capturing.
GRAP. Legislative Requirements: PFMA. National Treasury Regulations.
Skills: Computer literacy. Communication (verbal and written). Interpersonal
relations. Telephone Skills and Etiquette. Problem solving and decision
making.
DUTIES : Maintain the Funds bank accounts. Perform manual and electronic
reconciliation process. Provide administrative support.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Mahlakwane at 072 470 9092
20
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or direct your
application to: Jobs-CF14@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 32/29 : ADMIN CLERK: THIRD PARTY REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/44
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matric Certificate (NQF 4). No Experience. Knowledge: Public
Finance Management Act. Treasury Regulations. Public Service Regulations
Act. Skills: Communication (verbal and written). Financial Management.
Planning and Organizing. Computer literacy. Interpersonal. Conflict handling.
Problem solving.
DUTIES : Recover or collect money from internal and external parties. Administrate Road
Accident Fund claims. Handle all income enquiries and provide feedback.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Bouwer at 082 782 8609
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or direct your
application to: Jobs-CF14@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 32/30 : SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/45
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 /Matric (NQF 4). Private Security Regulatory Authority Grade C. 1-2
years’ security industry experience. Statutory Body Requirements: PSIRA
qualification Grade C. Knowledge: DEL and Compensation Fund objectives
and business functions. Directorate or sub-directorate goals and performance
requirements. Compensation Fund Services. Compensation Fund Value Chain
and business processes. Relevant Fund Policies, procedures and processes.
Stakeholders and customers. Customer Service (Batho Pele Principles). Fund
Values. Batho Pele principles. Legislative Requirements: Public Service Act.
Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS). Minimum Information Security.
Minimum Physical Security Standard. Private Security Industry Standard Act.
Public Finance Management Act. Skills: Interpersonal. Organizing.
Communication. Problem solving. Presentation. Computer Literacy. Telephone
Skills and Etiquette.
DUTIES : Conduct security control in accordance to policy and procedure. Provide
security to equipment, building and premises. Adhere to patrolling procedure.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CF Mnguni at 082 889 7377
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or direct your
application to: Jobs-CF15@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
21
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 32/31 : CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER REF NO: DHET01/09/2025
Branch: Administration
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum (Leve 15), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 8 qualification in the field of Finance/ Management
Accounting or related qualification recognized by SAQA. Admission as a
Chartered Accountant (South Africa) will serve as a distinct advantage. A
minimum of eight (8) experience at the senior management level, coupled with
extensive management experience in the field of financial management
covering Accounting, Budgeting Reporting, Asset Management, and Supply
Chain Management. Successful completion of a Nyukela Public Service Senior
Management Service Pre-entry Programme. Knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, and relevant government
policies regulating financial management in government: Generally
Recognized Audit Practices (GRAP); and Preferential Procurement Policy
Framework (PPPFA). Willingness to work irregular hours and travel
extensively. A valid driver’s license. Competencies: Excellent knowledge of
financial management; contract management, supply chain management
systems, and budgeting principles; Expert knowledge of Basic Accounting
Systems, PERSAL, the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF)
process, procedures, and controls within the private and public sectors. Good
understanding of macroeconomic policies and strategies affecting the
operation of the public and private entities (including monetary, fiscal, trade
protocols, agreements, and micro-economic reform strategy). Extensive
experience in the application of strategic management, business planning and
design, performance measurement, financial accounting (including principles
of GRAP/MCS), management accounting, cost accounting, internal controls,
internal and external audit, information systems, and Supply Chain
Management. Ability to establish good working relations with key stakeholders
such as the National Treasury and Auditor-General of South Africa. Acumen
and experience in managing and interacting with key stakeholders at the senior
level; proven strategic and leadership capabilities, programme and project
management, and people management and empowerment; well-developed
research and development methodologies. Skills: excellent communication
skills (written and verbal). Client orientation and customer focus, honesty and
integrity, and time management skills. Excellent project management,
problem-solving, report writing, computer and analytic skills are key to this post.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will oversee effective, integrated financial services
and supply chain management systems within the Department in accordance
with the PFMA, Treasury Regulations, and other finance-related prescripts;
provide strategic support and guidance to the Accounting Officer (Director-
General) and Programme Managers (Deputy Directors–General). Manage and
facilitate the provision of financial management services. Develop, implement,
and monitor financial services and procurement-related policies and
procedures. Oversee and lead in the development and monitoring of the
implementation of finance policies and procedures in order to ensure
compliance and promote sound financial management. Establishing and
maintaining appropriate systems (analytical tools, information systems, and
models or projections of cost behavior) and policies to ensure effective and
efficient management of resources. Oversee and lead the budgeting process
in compliance with the National Treasury guidelines and monitor the utilization
of budgets within the Department. Oversee the provision of logistics and
facilities in ensuring the optimal utilization of fixed and movable assets.
Ensuring proper management of the assets (including the safeguarding and
the maintenance thereof) and the liabilities of the Department. The provision of
an effective and efficient Supply Chain Management service within the
Department. Monitor the provision of Supply Chain Management and assets
management services. Settling all contractual obligations and paying all money
owing, including inter-governmental claims, within the prescribed or agreed
period. Manage and monitor the provision of financial services and salary
22
administration. Ensure that the expenditure of the Department is in accordance
with the Budget Vote of the Department and the main divisions within the Vote.
Manage and minimize the Department’s risk exposure by maintaining effective
systems and internal controls. Manage and monitor the public entities’
compliance oversight. Prepare management account reports including
financial reports and quarterly reports. Formulating creative solutions to
enhance cost-effectiveness and efficiency in the delivery and administration of
services. Advise the Accounting Officer on matters that have strategic and
financial implications and provide consultative support to planning initiatives
through financial and management information analysis, reports, and
recommendations. Coordinating the MTEF and Estimate of National
Expenditure processes in respect of the Department. Liaising with the relevant
role-players in the financial environment regarding transversal financial
matters. Liaising with external auditors and attending to audit queries.
Management of financial and human resources within the Finance Chief
Directorate in line with relevant legislation in order to reach the strategic
objectives of the Department of Higher Education and Training.
ENQUIRIES : Ms X Rikhotso Tel No: (012) 213 5513 / Mr R Kgare Tel No: (012) 312 5442
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents
namely, a comprehensive CV, and copies of all qualifications (including
matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s license, and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to compete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. Note: All shortlisted candidates will be required to undertake
writing test. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote representatives in
terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organization. Women and people
living with disability will receive preference in all SMS positions”.
CLOSING DATE : 22 September 2025
POST 32/32 : REGIONAL MANAGER (X4 POSTS)
Branch: Technical Vocational Education and Training
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : These positions are based in Regional Offices:
Western Cape & Northern Cape Regional Office Ref No: DHET 02/09/2025
Gauteng and Free State Regional Office Ref No: DHET 03/09/2025
Kwa Zulu Natal Regional Office Ref No: DHET 04/09/2025
Eastern Cape Regional Office Ref No: DHET 05/09/2025
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 in the field of Education and Training or equivalent
qualification. A minimum of 5 years at senior managerial level and ten (10)
years’ work experience in Post-School Education and Training. A postgraduate
23
degree in Education will serve as an added advantage. Proven senior
management experience within the Technical and Vocational Education and
Training (TVET), Community Education, Training (CET) as well as Universities
environments will be prioritized. Successful completion of a Nyukela Public
Service Senior Management Service Pre-entry Programme. In-depth
understanding and knowledge of prescripts and legal frameworks applicable to
both the CET and TVET sectors. Further requirements are excellent and
proven project management capabilities, problem-solving and financial
management skills, proposal, and report writing and computer skills. Excellent
project management and communication skills, including proposal and report
writing. Ability to work under pressure and willingness to work extended hours.
Management, Service Delivery Innovation, Problem Solving & Analysis,
People Management & Empowerment, Client Orientation & Customer Care,
Excellent Communication Skills and ability to communicate to the audience in
a tactful and influential manner. Ability to collaborate and enhance stakeholder
relations. Ethical leadership and Integrity.
DUTIES : Ensure effective leadership, management, and governance of PSET
institutions in the Region. Manage and support teaching and learning in public
Colleges. Oversee the management of examinations and assessments at
private and public Colleges. Liaise with industry, SETAs, and other government
institutions to create a conducive environment for partnerships and stakeholder
relations. Manage the delegated administrative and financial responsibilities.
Coordinate monitoring and evaluation functions of the programmes in public
Colleges. Ensure proper alignment of the Department Strategic Plan and
Annual Performance Plan with planned outcomes in the public TVET and CET
Colleges. Provide strategic leadership relating to the management of
compensation of employees’ budget for public colleges. Provide corporate
management support related to recruitment processes, conditions of services
and labour relations, and implementation of IQMS and PMDS.
ENQUIRIES : Ms X Rikhotso Tel No: (012) 213 5513 / Mr R Kgare Tel No: (012) 312 5442
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents
namely, a comprehensive CV, and copies of all qualifications (including
matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s license, and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to compete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. Note: All shortlisted candidates will be required to undertake
writing test. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote representatives in
terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organization. Women and people
living with disability will receive preference in all SMS positions”.
CLOSING DATE : 22 September 2025
24
POST 32/33 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT &
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DHET 06/09/2025
Branch: Corporate Services
Chief Directorate: Human Resource Management and Development
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in the field of Human Resource/
Industrial Psychology/Management services/Operations management/Labour
Relations/ Social Sciences or equivalent qualification as recognized by SAQA.
A minimum of 5 years’ experience at senior managerial level and 10 years
management experience within Human Resource environment. In-depth
knowledge and working experience in the alignment of HR strategy to the
business strategy. Management experience in leading change management
interventions at various levels of an organization. Training as a Job Evaluation
Analyst or Job Evaluation Panelist will be an added advantage. Successful
completion of a Nyukela Public Service Senior Management Service Pre-entry
Programme Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
Labour Relations Act, Employment Equity Act, Skills Development Act,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, Human Resource Development Strategy,
Public Finance Management Act, PSCBC Resolutions, Government financial
systems and processes, Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of government`s
planning and delivery cycle. Strategic capability and leadership, Programme
and Project management, Financial Management, Change Management,
Service Delivery Innovation, Problem Solving & Analysis, People Management
& Empowerment, Client Orientation & Customer Care, Excellent
Communication Skills and ability to communicate to the audience in a tactful
and influential manner. Ability to collaborate and enhance stakeholder
relations. Ethical leadership and Integrity.
DUTIES : Facilitate the development of a Human Resources Strategy and ensure
alignment with Departmental strategic objectives. Oversee Human Resources
Administration and System Control Services. Oversee development and
implementation of Talent Management Strategy aligned with HR best
Practices. Champion Organizational Development, Design processes, Change
Management Interventions processes and facilitate implementation of Job
Evaluation. Facilitate development and implementation of Human Resources
Policy Development. Oversee Employee Health and Wellness programmes,
Employment Equity and Affirmative Interventions. Oversee Grievances,
Disputes and Misconduct resolution processes and enhance Departmental
Collective Bargaining processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Mangena/ Mr R Kgare/MS XE Rikhotso Tel No: (012) 312
5498/5165/5513
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents
namely, a comprehensive CV, and copies of all qualifications (including
matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s license, and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to compete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
25
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. Note: All shortlisted candidates will be required to undertake
writing test. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote representatives in
terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organization. Women and people
living with disability will receive preference in all SMS positions”.
CLOSING DATE : 22 September 2025
POST 32/34 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: INFORMATION COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY
REF NO: DHET 07/09/2025
Branch: Corporate Services
Chief Directorate: Information Technology and Business Systems
Management
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 in the field of Computer Science/ Information
Technology Management/Software engineering or equivalent qualification as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 5 years at senior managerial level with 10
years management experience within an ICT environment. Management
experience in implementing Corporate Governance of ICT and management
of Cyber Security or security system engineering. Successful completion of a
Nyukela Public Service Senior Management Service Pre-entry Programme.
Experience in the development and implementation of ICT business Continuity
will be an added advantage. Expert knowledge of ICT as an enabling tool for
system development, ICT Security, ICT Infrastructure and network, business,
system analysis, Architecture and frameworks. In-depth knowledge of IT
solution development and integration, user interface design and digital
automation. Sound Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act and
Treasury Regulations. Extensive knowledge of government wide Enterprise
Architecture and business systems. Knowledge of ICT strategic and
operational planning, delivery, monitoring and evaluation frameworks.
Knowledge of IT Security systems and infrastructure systems. ICT project
Management and Change Management. Strategic capability and leadership,
Programme and Project management, Financial Management, Change
Management, Service Delivery Innovation, Problem Solving & Analysis,
People Management & Empowerment, Client Orientation & Customer Care,
Excellent business analytical and problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate the alignment of ICT strategy to overall Departmental strategy and
business goals. Provide Information management and oversee knowledge and
records management. Facilitate design, drive, review and implementation of
ICT governance framework, systems, policies, standards, principles and
procedures. Facilitate ICT Infrastructure in relation to serves, networks,
storage, telecoms, data Centre, backups, data recovery, connectivity and
security to ensure optimal service and security as per government and
departmental requirements. Facilitate the development and implementation of
business applications strategy. Facilitate the development, implementation of
ICT strategic and operational deliverables. Facilitate efficient ICT Security
measures. ICT Risk management and champion ICT audit standards
compliance. Facilitate the implementation of the design solution deployment
strategy and ensure approved applications comply with established
architecture standards. Manage the effectiveness of the disaster recovery
process and ensure integration with departmental business continuity
planning.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Mangena/ Mr R Kgare/Ms XE Rikhotso Tel No: (012) 312
5498/5165/5513
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents
namely, a comprehensive CV, and copies of all qualifications (including
matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s license, and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
26
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to compete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. Note: All shortlisted candidates will be required to undertake
writing test. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote representatives in
terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organization. Women and people
living with disability will receive preference in all SMS positions”.
CLOSING DATE : 22 September 2025
POST 32/35 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT
REF NO: DHET 08/09/2025
Branch: Corporate Services
Chief Directorate: Human Resource Management and Development
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in the field of Human Resource/ Public
Management/ Social Sciences Management or equivalent qualification as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at middle/ senior
managerial level within a Human Resource Management environment. In-
depth knowledge and working experience in transactional Human Resource
Management within recruitment, conditions of services and PERSAL system
management. Training as a PERSAL HR manager will be an added advantage.
Successful completion of a Nyukela Public Service Senior Management
Service Pre-entry Programme. Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Employment Equity Act, Skills
Development Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act, Human Resource
Development Strategy, Public Finance Management Act, PSCBC Resolutions,
Government financial systems and processes, Treasury Regulations.
Knowledge of Compensation of Employee budgeting system. Strategic
capability and leadership, Programme and Project management, Financial
Management, Change Management, Service Delivery Innovation, Problem
Solving & Analysis, People Management & Empowerment, Client Orientation
& Customer Care, Excellent Communication Skills. Ability to pay attention to
details and work through high volume of data.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and direction on Human Resource Management
and Administration functions of the Department. Develop and implement
Human Resource Management and Administration policies. Administer
recruitment of candidates, facilitate selection processes and oversee the
appointment of suitable candidates on PERSAL at head office, support
Regional Offices and Colleges. Facilitate the implementation of PILIR, conduct
trends analysis and ensure full compliance. Facilitate and oversee the
management of departmental exit strategy and ensure adequate analysis of
outcome of exit interviews.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Sithole/ Mr R Kgare/MS XE Rikhotso Tel No: (012) 312 5498/5165/5513
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
27
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents
namely, a comprehensive CV, and copies of all qualifications (including
matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s license, and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to compete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. Note: All shortlisted candidates will be required to undertake
writing test. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote representatives in
terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organization. Women and people
living with disability will receive preference in all SMS positions”.
CLOSING DATE : 22 September 2025
POST 32/36 : DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS PROGRAMME REF
NO: DHET 09/09/2025
Branch: Corporate Services
Chief Directorate: Human Resource Management and Development
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Social Science, Psychology/ Public
Health/ Occupational Health & Safety/ Safety Management or equivalent
qualification as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at
middle/senior managerial level in an Employee Health & Public Health/
Occupational Safety environment. In-depth knowledge and experience in
implementing organizational health and wellness programmes. Registration
with a professional council will be an added advantage. Successful completion
of a Nyukela Public Service Senior Management Service Pre-entry
Programme. Knowledge of Public Service Regulations, 2016. Public Service
Act 1994. PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Labour Relation Act, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, Occupational Health and Safety, OHS
Regulations. In-depth knowledge of employee health and wellness
frameworks. Excellent people management and interpersonal skills. Ability to
analyse problems, innovate on service delivery matters and focus on client
needs. Good empathetic skills coupled with active listening. Strategic capability
and leadership, Programme and Project management, Financial Management,
Change Management, Service Delivery Innovation, Problem Solving &
Analysis, People Management & Empowerment, Client Orientation &
Customer Care. Excellent Planning, organizing, and coordinating skills. Good
Communication skills. Proven computer literacy, including advanced MS Word,
MS Excel and MS PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Facilitate the development and implementation of employee health and
wellness programme aligned to national strategies. Facilitate the
implementation of HIV & AIDS, TB & other communicable diseases prevention,
28
treatment, care and support programmes. Promote and facilitate the
implementation of occupational health, safety and environment management
strategies and programmes. Manage statutory obligations on health and safety
and ensure compliance on injury on duty cases. Facilitate strategic health
assessments, identification of potential risks, oversee promotion of healthy
lifestyle and stress management techniques
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Sithole/ Mr R Kgare/Ms XE Rikhotso Tel No: (012) 312 5498/5165/5513
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents
namely, a comprehensive CV, and copies of all qualifications (including
matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s license, and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to compete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. Note: All shortlisted candidates will be required to undertake
writing test. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote representatives in
terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organization. Women and people
living with disability will receive preference in all SMS positions”.
CLOSING DATE : 22 September 2025
POST 32/37 : DIRECTOR: ORGANIZATIONAL DEVELOPMENT, HR PLANNING, POLICY
AND STRATEGY AND EMPLOYMENT EQUITY REF NO: DHET 10/09/2025
Branch: Corporate Services
Chief Directorate: Human Resource Management and Development
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in the field of Operations management
Organization and Work study or related field as recognized by SAQA. A
minimum of 5 years’ experience at middle/senior managerial level in
Organizational Development and Design, Human Resource Strategy
Management and Change Management environment. Knowledge and proven
experience in organizational restructuring, business process re-engineering
and change management interventions. Certifications as a Job Evaluation
Analyst or Change Champion will be an advantage. Successful completion of
a Nyukela Public Service Senior Management Service Pre-entry Programme.
Knowledge of Public Service Regulations, 2016. Public Service Act 1994.
PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Labour Relation Act, Employment Equity Act,
Human Resource Development Strategy, Public Finance Management Act,
PSCBC Resolutions. In-depth knowledge of the Job Evaluation systems and
framework for Job profiles. Good understanding of business process system
and organisational design tools Strategic capability and leadership,
Programme and Project management, Financial Management, Change
29
Management, Service Delivery Innovation, Problem Solving & Analysis,
People Management & Empowerment, Client Orientation & Customer Care.
Excellent Planning, organizing, and coordinating skills. Good Communication
skills. Proven computer literacy, including advanced MS Word, MS Excel and
MS PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Facilitate the implementation of organisational development, design and
maintenance of the organizational structure within the Department. Facilitate
the development and management of Job profiles or description. Oversee the
implementation Job Evaluation systems and facilitate adequate grading of
positions. Coordinate and manage change management interventions and
culture survey initiative within the department. Facilitate business process
improvement and organizational functionality assessment (OFA). Facilitate the
development, maintenance and implementation of the strategic Human
Resource Plan. Oversee the implementation of Employment Equity and
facilitate policy development, implementation and proactively identify policy
shortfall. Ensure monitoring of Human Resource performance (HR annual
report).
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Sithole/ Mr R Kgare/Ms XE Rikhotso Tel No: (012) 312 5498/5165/5513
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents
namely, a comprehensive CV, and copies of all qualifications (including
matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s license, and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to compete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. Note: All shortlisted candidates will be required to undertake
writing test. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote representatives in
terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organization. Women and people
living with disability will receive preference in all SMS positions”.
CLOSING DATE : 22 September 2025
POST 32/38 : DIRECTOR: APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT AND MANAGEMENT REF
NO: DHET 11/09/2025
Branch: Corporate Services
Chief Directorate: Information Technology and Business Systems
Management
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in the field of Computer
Science/Information Technology / Information Systems or related field as
recognized by SAQA. 5 years of experience at a middle/senior managerial
level. Extensive knowledge and experience in applications design, applications
30
development and business solutions environment. Relevant accreditation and
certification will be an added advantage. Successful completion of a Nyukela
Public Service Senior Management Service Pre-entry Programme. In-depth
knowledge of agile IT business analysis, solution design, development and
applications. Knowledge of government operating systems modernized
application portfolio/ landscape. Good Knowledge of the ICT Corporate
Governance framework of ICT, ICT solutions, ICT planning and business
alignment. Advance knowledge of digital automation cloud-based systems.
Knowledge of broad ICT procedure, ICT security practices and various ICT
networks. Knowledge of Public Service regulations, Public Finance
Management System and treasury Regulations. Advance level IT solution
development and integration skills. Strategic capability and leadership,
Programme and Project management, Financial Management, Change
Management, Service Delivery Innovation, Problem Solving & Analysis,
People Management & Empowerment, Client Orientation & Customer Care.
Excellent planning and organizing skills. Good Communication skills and
excellent project management skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate effective implementation of business applications strategy. Manage
business solution design and development. Conduct research on best practice
models, technological advancements, trends on business systems and
application development. Analyze business requirements, business
constraints, facilitate solution deployment and validate IT solution
requirements. Conduct regular monitoring to ensure business solutions,
applications development are designed, implemented and integrated to
support departmental requirements.
ENQUIRIES : MS E Sithole/ Mr R Kgare/MS XE Rikhotso Tel No: (012) 312 5498/5165/551
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents
namely, a comprehensive CV, and copies of all qualifications (including
matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s license, and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to compete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. Note: All shortlisted candidates will be required to undertake
writing test. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote representatives in
terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organization. Women and people
living with disability will receive preference in all SMS positions”.
CLOSING DATE : 22 September 2025
POST 32/39 : PRINCIPAL (X5 POSTS)
Branch: Technical and Vocational Education and Training
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
31
CENTRE : Positions based at Technical and Vocational Education and Training Colleges:
King Hintsa TVET College Ref No: DHET12/09/2025
Lovedale TVET College Ref No: DHET13/09/2025
Ekurhuleni East TVET College Ref No: DHET 14/09/2025
Mthashana TVET College Ref No: DHET 15/09/2025
Gert Sibande TVET College Ref No: DHET 16/09/2025
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 in the field of Education or related qualification as
recognized by SAQA. A relevant postgraduate qualification in Education and
Training will be an added advantage. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at the
middle/ senior managerial level and 8 years’ working experience in a Post
School Education and Training environment. Extensive experience in any of
the following general management spheres; college education institution
management, strategy management, education management, human
resource management and development. Successful completion of a Nyukela
Public Service Senior Management Service Pre-entry Programme. Proven
management skills and a track record in the preparation, implementation and
management of strategic, operational and financial management plans and
project. Ability to design internal systems and controls to ensure sound
organizational governance, management and control. Proven management
skills and a track record in the preparation, implementation, and management
of strategic, operational, and financial management plans and projects. Ability
to design internal systems and controls to ensure sound organizational
governance, financial management, and control. Proven computer literacy,
including advanced MS Word, MS Excel, and MS PowerPoint. Proven report
writing and presentation skills. Sound knowledge of the public TVET college
sector and its regulatory and legislative framework. Knowledge of education
and institutional management principles, methodologies, and procedures.
Knowledge of governance and public sector management reporting
requirements. Strategic capability and leadership, client orientation and
customer focus, financial management, people management and
empowerment, communication, and stakeholder management. Knowledge of
and/or experience in the private sector/industry will also be treated as an added
advantage. A willingness to work irregular hours and travel extensively. A valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : To strategically manage the College and to support the College Council and
Department of Higher Education and Training in accordance with the Further
Education and Training Colleges Act (2006) and all other relevant legislation.
To drive the efficient and effective implementation of college governance
frameworks and systems; and the functioning of governance structures,
including the college council and the academic board. To build and foster an
effective management team that plans and executes the college mandate in
an integrated, compliant, and performance-focused manner. To fulfil the role
of accounting officer of the college by establishing and monitoring college
financial and supply chain management systems towards the achievement of
strategic goals and compliance with all relevant legislation and regulations. To
establish and monitor effective human resource management and stakeholder
engagement systems incorporating both marketing and communication. To
create a platform for effective management decision-making through the
establishment of an accurate and accessible information management
platform. To lead the development and delivery of responsive vocational and
occupational curricula and programmes and monitor the associated quality
assurance programme and impact on student performance and placement. To
operationalize business partnerships and linkages that translate into student
placements, workplace-based learning, and articulation. To establish and
manage a student management framework and system that facilitates student
support and governance and provides all enrolled students with holistic
academic and social support. To establish and lead a college infrastructure and
estate management system that assures the acquisition, maintenance,
management, and disposal of physical resources that facilitate the
achievement of strategic and operational objectives. Facilitate programme
articulation and upward progression.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Sithole/ Mr R Kgare/Ms XE Rikhotso Tel No: (012) 312 5498/5165/5513
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents
namely, a comprehensive CV, and copies of all qualifications (including
32
matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s license, and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to compete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. Note: All shortlisted candidates will be required to undertake
writing test. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote representatives in
terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organization. Women and people
living with disability will receive preference in all SMS positions”.
CLOSING DATE : 22 September 2025
POST 32/40 : PRINCIPAL REF NO: DHET 17/09/2025 (X1 POST)
Branch: Community Education and Training
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Position is based at Technical and Vocational Education and Training Colleges
Limpopo CET College
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF Level 7 in the field of Education or related qualification as
recognized by SAQA. A relevant postgraduate qualification in education and
training will be an added advantage. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at the
middle/ senior managerial level and 8 years’ working experience in a Post
School Education and Training environment. Extensive experience in any of
the following general management spheres; college education institution
management, strategy management, education management, human
resource management and development. Successful completion of a Nyukela
Public Service Senior Management Service Pre-entry Programme. Proven
management skills and a track record in the preparation, implementation and
management of strategic, operational and financial management plans and
project. Ability to design internal systems and controls to ensure sound
organizational governance, management and control. Proven management
skills and a track record in the preparation, implementation, and management
of strategic, operational, and financial management plans and projects. Ability
to design internal systems and controls to ensure sound organizational
governance, financial management, and control. Proven computer literacy,
including advanced MS Word, MS Excel, and MS PowerPoint. Proven report
writing and presentation skills. Sound knowledge of the public TVET college
sector and its regulatory and legislative framework. Knowledge of education
and institutional management principles, methodologies, and procedures.
Knowledge of governance and public sector management reporting
requirements. Strategic capability and leadership, client orientation and
customer focus, financial management, people management and
empowerment, communication, and stakeholder management. Knowledge of
and/or experience in the private sector/industry will also be treated as an added
advantage. A willingness to work irregular hours and travel extensively. A valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : To strategically manage the College and to support the College Council and
33
Department of Higher Education and Training in accordance with the
Continuing Education and Training Act (2006) and all other relevant legislation.
To drive the efficient and effective implementation of college governance
frameworks and systems; and the functioning of governance structures,
including the college council and the academic board. To build and foster an
effective management team that plans and executes the college mandate in
an integrated, compliant, and performance-focused manner. To fulfil the role
of accounting officer of the college by establishing and monitoring college
financial and supply chain management systems towards the achievement of
strategic goals and compliance with all relevant legislation and regulations. To
establish and monitor effective human resource management and stakeholder
engagement systems incorporating both marketing and communication. To
create a platform for effective management decision-making through the
establishment of an accurate and accessible information management
platform. To lead the development and delivery of responsive academic
vocational and occupational curricula and programmes and monitor the
associated quality assurance programme and impact on student performance
and placement. To operationalize business partnerships and linkages that
translate into student placements, workplace-based learning, and articulation.
To establish and manage a student management framework and system that
facilitates student and community support and governance and provides all
enrolled students with holistic academic and social support. To establish and
lead a college infrastructure and estate management system that assures the
acquisition, maintenance, management, and disposal of physical resources
that facilitate the achievement of strategic and operational objectives. Facilitate
programme articulation and upward progression.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Sithole/ Mr R Kgare/MS XE Rikhotso Tel No: (012) 312 5498/5165/5513
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents
namely, a comprehensive CV, and copies of all qualifications (including
matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s license, and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to compete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. Note: All shortlisted candidates will be required to undertake
writing test. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote representatives in
terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organization. Women and people
living with disability will receive preference in all SMS positions”.
CLOSING DATE : 22 September 2025
34
OTHER POSTS
POST 32/41 : DEPUTY PRINCIPAL: FINANCE (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Technical And Vocational Education and Training
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Positions based at Technical and Vocational Education and Training Colleges:
Capricorn TVET College Ref No: DHET 18/09/2025
Northern Cape Urban TVET College Ref No: DHET 19/09/2025
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF Level 7 qualification in the field of Commerce Accounting/
Accounting or related qualification. A minimum of 3 years junior management
level experience in a finance or budgeting environment and 5 years working
experience. Registration with SAICA as A Chartered Accountant or associate
General Accountant will be an added advantage. Excellent knowledge and
understanding of the Community Education and Training Act, Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, PSET legislative
frameworks, policies, and regulations. Possess good leadership and
experience in overall financial management, logistical services, preparations,
and compilation of annual financial statements using GRAP standards and
another reporting role. Excellent project management and communication
skills, including analytical capability and report writing as well as the ability to
lead a team; the ability to develop, support and monitor the implementation of
policies; the ability to work in a team environment; good computer skills. This
management position requires a dynamic individual with knowledge of the
South African post-school education and training landscape, particularly its
legislative frameworks, policies, and regulations. The candidate must have
proven strategic management and leadership capabilities and be a strong
communicator with the ability to interact with the TVET staff, College
management and Council as well as problem-solving and report-writing and
communication skills are mandatory. The incumbent should be able to perform
in a team environment. Willingness to travel and be in possession of valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : To support the principal as the accounting officer and other senior
management in the execution of their functions in compliance with applicable
financial legislation, regulations and college prescripts. Assisting the Principal/
Accounting Officer or Council in discharging the duties prescribed in the
financial management policies of the College; establishing and maintain
financial management structures. Establish, implement, and monitor the
financial management and internal control systems. Establish and manage the
college financial accounting system ensuring compliance with all prescripts and
the maintenance of the general ledger accordance with applicable policy,
prescripts and accounting frameworks. Contribute to the development of
strategic, corporate, annual performance and operational plans, whichever is
applicable, including coordinating, analyzing and advising overseeing the
budget preparation process, providing advice and support to stakeholders.
Produce compliant Annual Financial Statement for approval by the Accounting
Officer and council Chair as required by the Department of Higher Education
and Training in team of Generally Recognized Accounting Practice (GRAP).
Review the budget proposals prior to submission to the relevant approval
authority; oversee and manage the budget monitoring process, including the
production of monthly, quarterly financial and performance reports and
providing recommendations and advice to the relevant functionaries as to how
to address significant variances; coordinate, manage and monitor the college
budget and expenditure management process and delivery within deadlines.
Report the budget and expenditure analysis in the required format and present
it to the management team and the college. Report the budget and expenditure
analysis in the required format and present it to the management team and the
college council. Regularly monitor the institution’s controls over financial and
logistical systems, supply chain management and their procedures in order to
protect the integrity of financial information; oversee and optimize the utilization
of electronic financial, logistics and management information systems. Manage
the finalization of interim and annual financial statements in line with standards
of GRAP and reviewing thereof and manage engagements with assurance
providers (i.e. Auditor General). Ensure that the asset management function is
effective and operational. Manage human resource and budget in the college.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Sithole/ Mr R Kgare/Ms XE Rikhotso Tel No: (012) 312 5498/5165/5513
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
35
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents
namely, a comprehensive CV, and copies of all qualifications (including
matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s license, and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to compete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. Note: All shortlisted candidates will be required to undertake
writing test. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote representatives in
terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organization. Women and people
living with disability will receive preference in all SMS positions”.
CLOSING DATE : 22 September 2025
POST 32/42 : DEPUTY PRINCIPAL: CORPORATE SERVICE (X4 POST)
Branch: Technical And Vocational Education and Training
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE Positions based at Technical and Vocational Education and Training Colleges:
Port Elizabeth TVET College Ref No: DHET 20/09/2025
Majuba TVET College Ref No: DHET 21/09/2025
Nkangala TVET College Ref No: DHET 22/09/2025
Taletso TVET College Ref No: DHET 23/09/2025
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF Level 7 in the field of Human Management/ Development
or related qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years junior
management level experience in a Corporate Services environment and 5
years working experience. Junior management experience within a Post
School Education and Training environment will be an added advantage. An
understanding of the Department of Higher Education and Training’s strategic
vision and priorities. Knowledge of Public Service Act, Employment of
Educators Act, Labour Relations Act and Public Financial Management Act.
Knowledge of policies and legislative frameworks governing education and
training as well as the Public Service and Employment Service in South Africa.
Experience in managing people and projects with the ability to plan
strategically. An ability to develop, support and monitor the implementation of
policies and the ability to work in a team environment, good project
management and computer skills. Willingness to work irregular hours and
travel extensively. Computer literacy (Ms Word, Ms PowerPoint, Ms Excel, Ms
Excess and Ms Outlook). A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership in the areas of Human Resource, IT, Marketing,
Facilities Management, Records Management, Labour Relations and
Governance. Oversee the entire day to day operational requirement of the HR,
Marketing and IT functions including those activities in the campus. Render
communication and information technology services to meet the specific needs
of the college. Accountable for the effective delivery of service in each of these
36
areas. Facilitate and drive the timely and accurate preparation of the college’s
annual budget in line with Strategic priorities. Coordinate and driver the
preparation for the annual review of the college’s strategic plan. Prepare
quarterly reports as per annual performance plan and ensure the compilation
of the annual report and strategic plan of the college. Encourage and build an
organizational climate conductive to optimal performance through
implementing change management. Develop and implement best practice
policies, procedure, and internal control systems to ensure effective corporate
governance. Ensure the provision of appropriate and cost-effective service.
Oversee the proper and effective management of the college’s assets and
facilities. Ensure the provision of appropriate and cost-effective services.
Manage human resources and corporate management service affairs in the
college. Provide guidance and adequate support and development of the staff.
Ensure compliance with all administrative requirements, regulations, rules and
regulations pertaining to Corporate Services. Responsible for IT and
information management solutions to meet the specific needs of the Region.
Responsible for communication and marketing for the Regional Office. Ensure
development of PMDS of staff. Monitor quality control of work and develop
annual performance plan. Monitor the planning, organization and delegation of
work.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Sithole/ Mr R Kgare/MS XE Rikhotso Tel No: (012) 312 5498/5165/5513
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents
namely, a comprehensive CV, and copies of all qualifications (including
matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s license, and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to compete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. Note: All shortlisted candidates will be required to undertake
writing test. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote representatives in
terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organization. Women and people
living with disability will receive preference in all SMS positions”.
CLOSING DATE : 22 September 2025
POST 32/43 : DEPUTY PRINCIPAL: REGISTRATION SERVICES (X3 POSTS)
Branch: Technical and Vocational Education and Training
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Positions based at Technical and Vocational Education and Training Colleges:
Mnabithi TVET College Ref No: DHET 24/09/2025
Waterberg TVET College Ref No: DHET 25/09/2025
Northern Cape Rural TVET College Ref No: DHET 26/09/202025
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF Level 7 in the field of Education/Teaching/ Human
37
Resource Management/ Commerce Accounting/ Financial
Accounting/Business Management or related qualification as recognized by
SAQA. A minimum of 3 years junior management level experience in an
education, training environment and 5 years working experience. Junior
management experience within a Post School Education and Training
environment will be an added advantage Knowledge of Research and Statistics
Analysis, Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting, policies and legislation
applicable within the Education sector, Academic Framework and thorough
understanding Education sector. Strategic capability and leadership skills,
people management and empowerment skills, programme and project
management skills, change management skills and problem-solving skills.
Proactive, committed, loyal and client service focus values. A valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership regarding the enrolment of students as this
determines the allocation of staff. Analyze enrolment trends to forecast staffing
needs. Develop and implement enrolment strategies aligned with institutional
goals. Collaborate with academic department to balance enrolment capacity
and resource allocation. Responsible for the management of the student
registration at the college. Oversee the design and operation of the registration
system. Monitor the registration schedule and address any challenges
promptly. Provide training and support to staff involved in the registration
process. Manage and coordinate the compilation and implementation of all
student administration policies and procedures at the college. Regularly review
and update student administration policies to ensure compliance with
regulatory requirements. Organize workshops and training sessions to
familiarize staff with new or updated policies. Establish feedback mechanism
for continual improvement of administrative processes. Verify the validity and
reliability of registration documentation and all EMIS data and reports. Conduct
audits of registration records. Supervise the preparation and submission of
EMIS data and reports. Address discrepancies in documentation and
implement corrective measures. Coordinate the preparation of examination for
all programmes involving assessment. Develop examination schedules and
oversee logistical arrangement. Liaise with academic staff to confirm
assessment requirements. Ensure the secure handling and storage of
examination materials. Ensure current examination regulations and
conventions are adhered to. Monitor compliance with examination rules and
regulations. Facilitate training for staff and students on examination protocols.
Address breaches of examination regulations in collaboration with disciplinary
committees. Manage human resource and registrar affairs in the college.
Ensure development of PMDS of staff. Monitor quality control of work and
develop annual performance plan. Monitor the planning, organizing and
delegation of work.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Sithole/ Mr R Kgare/Ms XE Rikhotso Tel No: (012) 312 5498/5165/5513
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents
namely, a comprehensive CV, and copies of all qualifications (including
matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s license, and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to compete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
38
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. Note: All shortlisted candidates will be required to undertake
writing test. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote representatives in
terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organization. Women and people
living with disability will receive preference in all SMS positions”.
CLOSING DATE : 22 September 2025
POST 32/44 : DEPUTY PRINCIPAL: ACADEMIC SERVICES (X6 POSTS)
Branch: Technical And Vocational Education and Training
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Positions based at Technical and Vocational Education and Training Colleges
Lovedale TVET college Ref No: DHET 27/09/2025
Ekurhuleni West TVET college Ref No: DHET 28/09/2025
Western College TVET college Ref No: DHET 29/09/2025
Mthashana TVET college Ref No: DHET 30/09/2025
Umfolozi TVET college Ref No: DHET 31/09/2025
Mopani TVET college Ref No: DHET 32/09/2025
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF Level 7 in the field of Education/ Teaching or related
qualification. A minimum of 3 years junior management level experience in an
education, training environment and 5 years working experience. Junior
management experience within a Post School Education and Training
environment will be an added advantage. Proven ability to establish
professional credibility and confidence with a diverse customer base. A sound
and thorough knowledge of all the transformational issues, capability-building
processes and the National Qualification Framework (NQF) in education and
training, especially concerning curriculum management and delivery. Strategic
management, conflict management, budgeting and financial management
skills. Verbal and written communication and presentation skills. Willingness to
work irregular hours and travel extensively. Computer skills (Ms Word, MS
PowerPoint, Ms Excel, Ms Access and Ms Outlook). An understanding of
DHET’s strategic vision and priorities. Thorough knowledge of all policies and
legislative Framework governing TVET College in South Africa. Knowledge of
the student/ information management system concerning vocational education
and training. Willingness to travel and a valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : To provide strategic leadership regarding the proficient delivery of Curriculum
Services and programme offerings. To support the principal as the accounting
officer and co-ordinate the provision of academic services. Guide, inform and
develop the programs and qualifications Mix (PQM) of the college for executive
protocol. Ensure that modalities of curriculum delivery other than full-time and
special needs learners are catered for. Support and provide advice on the work
of the academic Board. Develop a system of partnership engagement with
strategic stakeholders to enhance student learning and employability. Facilitate
and manage the policy framework for the institution as per relevant portfolios.
Manage student career guidance and placement on entry. Develop a system
of work integrated learning (WIL) for students and lecturers. Monitor student
performance and develop academic support interventions where necessary.
Ensure that the targets for students’ success as set by the DHET/ college
academic Board are met. Report on all initiatives undertaken by the college to
improve student retention, attendance, performance and certificate. Ensure
that all the requirements for quality teaching and learning are in place, policy
to implement teaching & learning, lecture training & professional development,
student continuous assessment. Coordinate the preparation for all
programmes involving assessments. Ensure current examination regulations
and conventions are adhered to. Ensure the provision of appropriate and cost-
effective services. Manage human resource and academic management
service affairs in the college. Provide guidance and adequate support for and
development of the staff. Ensure development of PMDS of staff. Monitor quality
control of work and develop annual performance plan. Monitor the planning,
organizing and delegation of work.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Sithole/ Mr R Kgare/MS XE Rikhotso Tel No: (012) 312 5498/5165/5513
39
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents
namely, a comprehensive CV, and copies of all qualifications (including
matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s license, and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to compete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. Note: All shortlisted candidates will be required to undertake
writing test. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote representatives in
terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organization. Women and people
living with disability will receive preference in all SMS positions”.
CLOSING DATE : 22 September 2025
POST 32/45 : DEPUTY PRINCIPAL: PARTNERSHIPS, INNOVATION AND
DEVELOPMENT (X5 POSTS)
Branch: Technical And Vocational Education and Training
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Positions based at Technical and Vocational Education and Training Colleges:
King Hintsa TVET College Ref No: DHET 33/09/2025
Tshwane North TVET College Ref No: DHET 34/09/2025
Mthashana TVET College Ref No: DHET 35/09/2025
Nkangala TVET College Ref No: DHET 36/09/2025
College of Cape Town TVET College (Ref No: DHET 37/09/2025
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF Level 7 in Business Management or related qualification.
A minimum of 3 years junior management level experience in a stakeholder
liaison, business management, partnership environment and 5 years working
experience. Junior management experience within a Post School Education
and Training environment will be an added advantage Knowledge of Research
and Statistics Analysis, Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting, policies and
legislation applicable within the Education sector, Academic Framework and
thorough understanding Education sector. Strategic capability and leadership
skills, people management and empowerment skills, programme and project
management skills, change management skills and problem-solving skills.
Proactive, committed, loyal and client service focus values. A valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : To strategically director, develop, implement and maintain the college business
as per TVET college mandate in the field of Quality Assurance, Student
Support Services, Communication, Marketing and Advancement, International
Partnership and the facilitation of the Operation and Strategic Planning for
TVET colleges. Ensure that the Quality Assurance System are developed and
maintained to achieve continual improvement and customer satisfaction.
Ensure that the holistic Student Support Service strategy are developed,
40
implemented and maintained for the enhancement of student wellbeing and
ultimately student performance. Ensure that the Communication, Marketing
and Advancement strategy align with the college mandate. Strategically direct,
development, implementation, and management of the marketing strategy.
Coordinate the development and maintenance of International Partnership,
international liaison and services to foreign students and other international
related activities. Coordinate and facilitate the Operation and Strategic
Planning. Manage human resource and Partnership Innovation and
Development affairs in the College. Provide guidance and adequate support
and development of the staff. Ensure compliance with all administrative
requirements, regulations, rules and introductions pertaining to Partnership
Innovation and Development. Ensure development of PMDS of staff. Monitor
quality control of work and develop annual performance plan. Monitor the
planning, organizing and delegation of work.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Sithole/ Mr R Kgare/Ms XE Rikhotso Tel No: (012) 312 5498/5165/5513
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents
namely, a comprehensive CV, and copies of all qualifications (including
matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s license, and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to compete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. Note: All shortlisted candidates will be required to undertake
writing test. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote representatives in
terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organization. Women and people
living with disability will receive preference in all SMS positions”.
CLOSING DATE : 22 September 2025
POST 32/46 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: REGISTRATION SERVICES REF NO:
CORP/ASD/REG/01
PERSAL (Permanent Appointment)
Re-advertisement, candidates who previously applied are encouraged to
reapply.
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Corporate Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade12 Certificate plus a recognised 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Public Management/ Public Administration/ Business Administration
or any other relevant qualification. A minimum of 3 to 5 years relevant work
experience in registration services preferably in the Public Sector or Institutions
of Higher Learning of which 3 years should be on a supervisory level.
Knowledge and understanding of the registration processes and procedures.
Knowledge of the TVET sector regulations and legislative framework.
41
Knowledge of the Business Management Systems. Knowledge of practice
notes, provincial and national policy frameworks relevant to Education,
Training and Development. Knowledge of Skills Development Act, PSET Act,
Labour Relations Act, Public Service Regulations and Public Service Act. Must
be computer literate. Must have a valid driver’s license. Should have strong
administrative, planning, organising, report writing, problem solving, project
management and people management skills.
DUTIES : Manage the administration of the overall student registration. Develop, review,
and monitor the implementation of policies and procedure in relation to student
registration, admission, scheduling, and records. Develop and implement
student enrolment and registration standard operating procedures which are
aligned to those of the department. Establish and oversee the work of College
Enrolment Committee as well as Student Selection Committee. Champion
online application and registration processes. Provide workshops on the
implementation of policies and procedure in relation to student registration,
admission, scheduling, and records. Advise on the marketing strategies to
attract new potential students. Manage the database for new graduates and
alumni into the job market. Ensure provisioning of pre-entry support services
to student during the registration process in relation to (financial aid, bursaries,
student accommodation). Provide guidance and testing of students, with
regards to choices of and placement within programmes. Ensure that student
orientation is conducted into college and campuses. Develop and implement a
filing system for student records. Conduct monitoring and verification of student
records across the delivery system/sites. Oversee the provision of student
financial aid and bursary services support. Ensure that the TVET Bursary
Scheme is administered strictly according to the bursary rules and guidelines.
Monitoring the tracking of student bursary requirements compliance and
implement remedial initiative as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Hlatshwayo or Mr P Motai Tel No: (011) 692 4004 Ext. 1010/1061/1062
APPLICATIONS : Please hand deliver your application or email it to asdreg@westcol.co.za
quoting the reference number to the Principal, Western TVET College
Corporate Office, 42 Johnstone Street, Randfontein, 1760.
NOTE : All applications must be accompanied by a signed and fully completed NEW
Z83 form obtainable from any public service Department or DPSA website, a
comprehensive CV including at least three contactable references. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of original
documents with academic records/transcripts and other relevant supporting
documents on or before the day of the interview following communication from
the HR Office. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by a SAQA
evaluation report. Successful candidates will be subjected to a vetting and
financial disclosure process (criminal record, citizenship, qualification
verification and employment verification). Western TVET College is an equal
opportunities employer and reserves the right not to fill the posts. People with
disability are encouraged to apply. If you have not been contacted within six
months after the closing date, please consider your application as
unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025 at 12:00
POST 32/47 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PROJECT MANAGEMENT REF NO:
CORP/ASD/PM/02
College Council Appointment
Duration: 1 Year contract
Re-advertisement, candidates who previously applied are encouraged to
reapply.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Corporate Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade12 Certificate plus a recognised 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Building Management/Safety Management/Civil
Engineering/Architecture Construction Management/ Project Management or
a relevant Degree in Engineering. A minimum of 3 to 5 years relevant work
experience in facilities management, SHERQ and OHS of which 2-3 years
should be on a supervisory level. Must have a valid driver’s license. Must be
computer literate. Knowledge of the TVET sector regulations and legislative
framework. Knowledge of Public Service Act and Regulations, Occupational
Health and Safety Act, fire control and facilities management systems. must
demonstrate leadership, communication skills, and attention to detail while
42
managing the entire lifecycle of the project. Should have strong administrative,
planning, organising, report writing, project management, problem solving and
people management skills.
DUTIES : Successful candidates will be responsible for the planning, execution, and
success of a project which includes the following responsibilities: Manage the
development or improvement of physical infrastructure to ensure college has
adequate physical infrastructure and maintenance in line with Capital
Infrastructure Efficiency Grant (CIEG). Compile maintenance plan regarding
machinery, tools, and equipment costing and submitted to DHET. Timeous
reporting to different stakeholders. Determine and define project scope and
objectives. Predict resources needed to reach objectives and manage
resources in an effective and efficient manner. Prepare budget based on scope
of work and resource requirements. Track project costs to meet budget.
Develop and manage a detailed project schedule and work plan. Provide
project updates on a consistent basis to various stakeholders about strategy,
adjustments, and progress. Manage contracts with vendors and suppliers by
assigning tasks and communicating expected deliverables. Monitor progress
of the projects. Measure project performance to identify areas for improvement.
Engage with all levels of the organisation in a professional manner. Setup and
manage project governing meetings at all levels of the project structure. Ensure
that all stakeholders and project team members execute on their activities in
terms of the project mandate. Identify potential risk hazards in the building and
ensure there is proper signage in and around the buildings to minimise risks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Hlatshwayo or Mr P Motai Tel No: (011) 692 4004 Ext. 1010/1061/1062
APPLICATIONS : Please hand deliver your application or email it to asdpm@westcol.co.za
quoting the reference number to the Principal, Western TVET College
Corporate Office, 42 Johnstone Street, Randfontein, 1760.
NOTE : All applications must be accompanied by a signed and fully completed NEW
Z83 form obtainable from any public service Department or DPSA website, a
comprehensive CV including at least three contactable references. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of original
documents with academic records/transcripts and other relevant supporting
documents on or before the day of the interview following communication from
the HR Office. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by a SAQA
evaluation report. Successful candidates will be subjected to a vetting and
financial disclosure process (criminal record, citizenship, qualification
verification and employment verification). Western TVET College is an equal
opportunities employer and reserves the right not to fill the posts. People with
disability are encouraged to apply. If you have not been contacted within six
months after the closing date, please consider your application as
unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025 at 12:00
POST 32/48 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: NLC/48/2025
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum
CENTRE : Northlink TVET College
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF Level 6) or Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) in Labour
Relations/Human Resources Management and/or Labour Law. LLB would be
an added advantage. Three (3) to five (5) years relevant experience in Labour
Relations of which a minimum of three (3) years must be a supervisory
experience. Computer Literacy. Valid Driver’s Licence. Knowledge of the
relevant legislation and policies. Knowledge of the Labour Relations Act.
Knowledge of Employment Equity Act, Public Service Act and Regulations and
any other related legislation. Knowledge of the CET Act. Knowledge and
understanding of TVET sector. Sound knowledge of International Labour
Organization (ILO). Knowledge of PERSAL. Planning, organizing,
communication and interpersonal skills. Report writing, problem solving,
conducting investigations, people management and presentation skills.
DUTIES : Maintain sound Labour Relations at the College. Render advice on Labour
related matters. Develop and implementation of Human Resource policies and
manuals. Ensure proper the implementation of disciplinary procedures,
grievance procedures and code of conduct. Conduct investigations and
disciplinary hearings. Management of strike action. Facilitate and conduct
Labour relations training and workshops. Ensure proper implementation of
collective bargaining council resolutions. Management of all human, financial
and other resources of the unit.
43
ENQUIRIES : Mrs. M Anthony; Tel no: (021) 970 9019
APPLICATIONS : Northlink TVET College invites applicants to apply online via email:
Careers6@northlink.co.za or alternatively, applications can be hand-delivered
to the Central Office, 80 Voortrekker Road, Bellville, 7530.
NOTE : Applications can be submitted via email to: Careers6@northlink.co.za by
quoting the post applying for and the relevant reference number provided on
the subject line. All documents submitted must be in a PDF Format. Applicants
are advised to submit one pdf document per application. A complete set of
application documents should be submitted separately for every post you wish
to apply for. Applications must be submitted on the new Z83 form which has
since been in effect from 1 January 2021, obtainable from any Public Service
Department and must be accompanied by a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae
(CV). Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from Human Resources and such qualification(s)
and other related document(s) will be in line with the requirements of the advert.
Please indicate the reference number and the post description of the position
you are applying for on your application form, the Z83 Form must be dated,
signed and the candidate must initialise both pages of the Form. Applications
submitted using the old Z83 Form will not be accepted. Non-RSA
Citizens/Permanent Resident, Permit Holders will be required to submit their
permit on the day of the interview. It is the applicant`s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
A separate application must be submitted for each post that you are applying
for. Late Applications received after closing date and time, incomplete, and
faxed applications will not be considered. The employment decision shall be
informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the College. It is the intention of
the College to promote representativity (race, gender, and disability) in the
College through the filling of these post(s). Applicants from the designated
groups especially in respect of people with disabilities will receive preference.
The College as the employer reserves the right not to make any appointment.
Where applicable, candidates will be subjected to a skills test. Correspondence
will only be limited to short-listed candidates. All short-listed candidates will be
subjected to a qualifications and citizen verification; criminal record and
financial/asset record checks. Applicants who have not been invited for an
interview within 60 days of the closing date should consider their application
unsuccessful. Northlink Technical and Vocational Education and Training
(TVET) College is inviting applications from suitably qualified candidates to fill
the following vacancies.
CLOSING DATE : 30 September 2025 @ 12H00
POST 32/49 : SENIOR RISK AND FRAUD PREVENTION OFFICER REF NO:
CORP/RISK//03
PERSAL (Permanent Appointment)
Re-advertisement, candidates who previously applied are encouraged to
reapply.
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), plus benefits
CENTRE : Corporate Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade12 Certificate plus a recognised 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Risk Management/Internal Audit or any other relevant qualification.
Must have a minimum of 3 to 5 years relevant work experience in risk, fraud,
investigations and ethics management. Supervisory experience will be an
added advantage. Must have a valid driver’s license. Must be computer literate.
Must have knowledge and experience in setting up and managing fraud hotline
requests will be an added advantage. Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) and
Certification in Risk Management Assurance (CRMA) qualifications would be
an added advantage. Must have a valid driver’s license. Must be computer
literate. Knowledge of Risk Management principles, practices, and procedures.
Knowledge of the National Treasury Risk Management Framework in the
Public Sector. Knowledge and understanding of the Risk, Fraud, Ethics and
Integrity Management environment. Knowledge of conducting fraud awareness
and risk training sessions, implementation of appropriate fraud detection
techniques and software. Should have good report writing, analytical, project
management, planning, organising, problem-solving skills and be able to
identify and mitigate risks effectively.
44
DUTIES : Ensure overall supervision and facilitate the provision of risk management
services. Identify risks at the college. Facilitate the strategic, operational and
process level risk assessment. Compile risk register for strategic, operation
and process level. Provide risk management reports. Reporting monthly to
management and quarterly to the Audit and Risk Committee. Facilitate the
development and maintenance of internal anti-corruption system. Facilitate the
fraud or corruption risk assessments. Conduct investigations on allegations of
corruption. Facilitate the promotion of the implementation of code of conduct,
remunerative work, financial disclosure system, conflict of interests and gift
register. Facilitate trainings, workshops and awareness campaigns on risk,
fraud, ethics and integrity management in the college.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Hlatshwayo or Mr P Motai Tel No: (011) 692 4004 Ext. 1010/1061/1062
APPLICATIONS : Please hand deliver your application or email it to snrrisk@westcol.co.za
quoting the reference number to the Principal, Western TVET College
Corporate Office, 42 Johnstone Street, Randfontein, 1760.
NOTE : All applications must be accompanied by a signed and fully completed NEW
Z83 form obtainable from any public service Department or DPSA website, a
comprehensive CV including at least three contactable references. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of original
documents with academic records/transcripts and other relevant supporting
documents on or before the day of the interview following communication from
the HR Office. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by a SAQA
evaluation report. Successful candidates will be subjected to a vetting and
financial disclosure process (criminal record, citizenship, qualification
verification and employment verification). Western TVET College is an equal
opportunities employer and reserves the right not to fill the posts. People with
disability are encouraged to apply. If you have not been contacted within six
months after the closing date, please consider your application as
unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025 at 12:00
45
ANNEXURE E
INDEPENDENT POLICE INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE
The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively in terms of race, gender and disability within the
Department through the filling of posts.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
NOTE : The Independent Police Investigative Directorate is offering opportunities to
unemployed South Africans University Graduates who have not been exposed
to work experience related to their qualifications, Application quoting the
reference number must be made to the province of residence and be submitted
through the addresses depicted under each post. Applicants are not required
to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on applications
but must submit Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Applications quoting the
correct reference number must be submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable
from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za/documents . Received applications using the incorrect application
form (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application for employment form
must be fully completed, signed and initialed by the applicant. Failure to sign
this form may lead to disqualification of the application during the selection
process. A recently updated, comprehensive CV as well as a fully completed
and initialed new signed Z83 (Section A, B, C & D are compulsory and section
E, F and G are not compulsory if CV it is attached). However, the question
related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part-F must be
answered. affidavit confirming that you have not participated in a similar
Programme before. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit Should you
be in possession of a foreign qualification; it must be accompanied by an
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA)
(only when shortlisted). Applicants who do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be
considered. Due to the large number of applications, we envisage to receive,
applications will not be acknowledged, if you have not been contacted within
three (3) weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. Correspondence will be limited to short-
listed candidates only. Therefore, only shortlisted candidate for the post will be
required to submit the documents on or before the date of the interview. The
successful candidate will have to undergo security vetting. His / her character
should be beyond reproach. The appointment is subject to security clearance,
verification of qualifications and competency assessment (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Applicants must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any
other allegations or investigations against them. Should this be uncovered
during / after the interview took place, the application will not be considered
and in the unlikely event, that the person has been appointed such appointment
will be terminated. The successful candidate will be appointed subject to
positive results of the security vetting process. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with.
GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (2025 TO 2027)
(24 MONTHS)
OTHER POSTS
POST 32/50 : GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME REF NO: Q9/2025/68 (X1 POST)
STIPEND : R94 326 per annum
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification: NQF level 7: Public Administration
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria, Office of the Chief Financial Officer
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Thipe Tel No: (012) 399 0185
APPLICATIONS : National office: direct your application to Independent police investigative
directorate, Benstra building, 473 Stanza Bopape Steve Biko Street, Arcadia
Pretoria 0001, or Recruitment10@ipid.gov.za. Please indicate the post name
& reference number on the subject line when applying through email
46
POST 32/51 : GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME REF NO: Q9/2025/69 (X1 POST)
STIPEND : R94 326.per annum
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria, Call Centre Services
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification: NQF level 6 & 7: Marketing/Communication/Public
Relations/Media Studies/ Call Centre Management or equivalent.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Thipe Tel No: (012) 399 0185
APPLICATIONS : National office: direct your application to Independent police investigative
directorate, Benstra building, 473 Stanza Bopape & Steve Biko Street, Arcadia
Pretoria, 0001, or Recruitment14@ipid.gov.za. Please indicate the post name
& reference number on the subject line when applying through email
POST 32/52 : GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME REF NO: Q9/2025/70 (X1 POST)
STIPEND : R94 326.per annum
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria, Office of the Chief Director: Investigation Services
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification: NQF level 7: Public Administration.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Thipe Tel No: (012) 399 0185
APPLICATIONS : National Office: direct your application to Independent police investigative
directorate, Benstra building, 473 Stanza Bopape & Steve Biko Street, Arcadia
Pretoria 0001, or Recruitment12@ipid.gov.za. Please indicate the post name
& reference number on the subject line when applying through email
47
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development’s mandate is to ensure that there is
accessible justice system in our vibrant and evolving constitutional democracy. It is responsible,
amongst others, to enable Access to Justice for all, promote Constitutionalism, Rule of Law, Respect for
Human Rights; and to coordinate the State Litigation and Legal Advisory Services. The Department is
therefore presenting an opportunity to dynamic individuals with relevant competencies to join a dynamic
team in its quest to fulfill its mandate and deliver justice services to the people of South Africa.
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post.
CLOSING DATE : 22 September 2025
NOTE : The application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that do
not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for
submission. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications.
All shortlisted candidates for posts will be subjected to a technical and/or
competency assessment. A pre-entry certificate obtained from National School
of Government (NSG) is required before appointment for all SMS positions.
Candidate will complete a financial disclosure form and also be required to
undergo a security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must
provide the Police Clearance certificate from country of origin only when
shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of
vacant posts the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South
Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant
Human Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Reasonable accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities
including where driver’s license is a requirement. Correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not hear from us within 3
months of this advertisement, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Target.
OTHER POSTS
POST 32/53 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: NATIONAL REGISTER FOR SEX OFFENDERS
(NRSO) SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT AND APPLICATIONS REF NO:
25/90/CS
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognized by SAQA in
Law/Public Administration/Social Science or equivalent qualification; A
minimum of 3 years’ experience at managerial (Assistant Director) level in
Administration /Law /Criminal Justice System; Experience in dealing with
legislation and litigation of cases pertaining to the NRSO, coordinating training
and service delivery improvement programmes; Knowledge of the
jurisprudence law cases; Knowledge and understanding of the legislative
framework, governing the Public Service, Financial Management and
regulatory framework/ guidelines; prescripts; Knowledge and understanding of
the Criminal Law (Sexual Offences and Related Matters) amendment Act, The
Criminal Law (Sexual Offenders and Related Matters) Amendment Act,
Criminal and Related matters Amendment Act, the Domestic Violence
Amendment Act, relevant Public Service Legislation and the application of
Batho Pele Principles; Understanding of issues surrounding GBVF, Ability to
interpret, apply and implement legislation; Understanding of the NRSO system
48
and its functionality. Skills and Competencies: Applied strategic thinking;
Applied technology; Budgeting and financial management; Communication
and information management; Continuous improvement; Citizen focus and
responsiveness; Developing others; Diversity management; Impact and
influence; Managing interpersonal conflict and resolving problems; Planning
and organising; Decision making; Project management; Team leadership;
Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage the development and maintenance of
National Register for Sex Offenders information system and integration;
Manage the NRSO administration process on the electronic register/system;
Manage the verification process of NRSO applications for certificates in respect
of particulars; Manage human, finance and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SJ Kgafela Tel No: (012) 315 1042
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resource: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001. Or Physical Address:
Application Box, First Floor, Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Building, Pretoria, 0001.
POST 32/54 : SENIOR COURT INTERPRETER REF NO: 2025/53/MP
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Nsikazi
REQUIRMENTS : NQF Level 4/ Grade 12 and National Diploma in Legal Interpreting or
equivalent qualification in the field of languages and a minimum of three years
practical experience in court interpreting; OR Grade 12 with 10 year’s practical
experience in court interpreting; A valid driver’s license; Proficiency in English
and in two or more indigenous languages. Language Requirements: SiSwati,
IxiTsonga, Sepedi. Skills and Competencies: Good communication skills
(verbal and written); Computer literacy; Listening skills; Interpersonal relation
and problem solving; Planning and organising; Analytical thinking skills; Time
management; Confidentiality; Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas; Render interpreting services. Translate legal
documents and exhibits; Develop terminology; Assist with reconstruction of
Court Records; Perform specific line and administrative support functions;
Assist with capturing on ICMS; Supervise Court Interpreters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr LT Mndebele at 078 802 0880
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank centre ,4th
Floor Building, Nelspruit, 1200 or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 32/55 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : State Attorney, Mthatha Ref No: 109/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Amsterdam Ref No: 2025/52/MP (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy (MS
Office); Good communication skills (verbal and written); Problem solving; Good
interpersonal relations; Ability to work under pressure; Attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render general clerical support services; Provide
supply chain clerical support services within the component; Provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component; Provide financial
administration support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape: Mr Ndamase Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7129
Mpumalanga: Mr IT Mndebele at 078 802 0880
APPLICATIONS : Eastern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or hand deliver
at the Provincial Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley
Park complex, East London or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
: Mpumalanga: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X 11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank
centre ,4th floor building, Nelspruit 1200 or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
49
ANNEXURE G
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : Eastern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Postal Address: Private
Bag X13012, Cambridge 5206, East London. Applications can also be hand
delivered to 59 Western Avenue, Sanlam Park Building, 2nd Floor, Vincent
5242, East London
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. Each application form must
be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both pages by the applicant.
The application must indicate the correct job title, the office where the position
is advertised and the reference number as stated in the advert. Failure by the
applicant to fully complete, sign and initial the application form will lead to 40
disqualifications of the application during the selection process. Applications
on the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you be in a
possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation
certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Dual
citizenship holders must provide the Police Clearance certificate from the
country of origin (when shortlisted all non - SA Citizens will be required to
submit a copy of proof of South African permanent residence). Applications that
do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements will not be considered.
Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal
record, financial checks, qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference
checks and employment verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-
listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months
after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application
was unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with
the above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late, will
not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in
the application not being considered during the selection process. All
successful candidates will be expected to enter into an employment contract
and a performance agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be
required to undergo a security clearance three (3) months after appointment.
The Office the Chief Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal
information provided to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more
specifically for the purpose of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the
event that your application was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice
will retain your personal information for internal audit purposes as required by
policies. All the information requested now or during the process is required for
recruitment purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your
application null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the
security and confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment
process.
50
OTHER POST
POST 32/56 : REGISTRAR REF NO: 2025/219/OCJ
SALARY : R324 579 – R1 111 323 per annum. The successful candidates will be required
to sign a performance agreement. Salary will be in accordance with the
Occupation Specific Dispensation (Resolution 1 of 2008). Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit a Service Certificate/s for determination
of their experience.
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Division of the High Court: Gqeberha
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an LLB Degree qualification at (NQF 7) or a four (4) years Legal
qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of two (2) years legal
experience obtained after qualification. Superior Court or litigation experience
will be an added advantage. A valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies:
knowledge of registry duties, case flow management, legislative framework
governing the public service, storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the
working environment and Batho Pele principles Computer Literacy, excellent
Communication Skills (Verbal & Written), report writing skills, research skills,
attention to detail, Planning and Organising skills, Problem solving, decision-
making and Interpersonal skills. Observance of confidentiality. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's
technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Process default judgments to enhance efficiency of the court in handling of
quasi- judicial functions. Determine whether pleadings/ processes comply with
the court rules. Consider applications for default judgment (Rule 31[5]) – by
applying Court rules and regulations, case law, discretion and knowledge.
Execute taxations to enhance efficiency of the court in handling of quasi-judicial
functions. Determine whether pleadings/ processes comply with the court
rules. Tax bills of cost - by hearing arguments from the parties and apply
discretion and knowledge to the reasonable litigation costs. Process and
finalise opposed and unopposed Taxations in accordance with SOP. Deal with
and finalise taxation reviews (Rule 48) through the drafting of stated cases,
replies, and submission to the Judiciary. Analyse statistical data to assess
trends and devise strategies to address identified risk factors. Resolve
Presidential Hotline queries and chapter 9 institution enquiries. Manage the
collation of performance information/ data/ Statistics for purpose of reporting
as per Reporting Tools. Supervise and develop staff. Ensure general
supervision of employees.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr S Mpako Tel No: (046) 603 5000
HR Related Enquiries: Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : can be sent via email at 2025/219/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
51
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION
The Department of Science, Technology and Innovation is an employer committed to employment equity,
and coloured people, white women, and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply for these posts.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be made on a fully
completed, signed, dated and initialed Z83 form, which can be downloaded
from
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/documents/ep/2020/Approved%20New%20
Z83%20form%20Gazetted%206%20Nov%202020.pdf. The Z83 form must be
accompanied by an up-to-date curriculum vitae (including three contactable
referees). Applications will not be considered if they are submitted on an old
Z83 form (effective before January 2021), are incomplete, or are not signed,
initialed and dated. Please submit only the Z83 and CV as one combined
document, not any attachments or requests for acknowledgement of receipt.
Human Resources will request certified documents from shortlisted candidates
on or before the day of the interview. Applications must be emailed to the
address specified for the particular post. There will be a criminal record check
on shortlisted candidates, and their citizenship, previous employment,
creditworthiness and qualifications will be verified. It is the responsibility of
applicants to have any foreign qualifications verified by the South African
Qualifications Authority. The Department will respond only to shortlisted
candidates, who will be interviewed on a date and at a time specified by the
Department. The Department reserves the right not to make any appointment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 32/57 : PARLIAMENTARY AND CABINET SUPPORT OFFICER REF NO: DSTI
2025/01
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 6 qualification. A minimum of three years' experience
at assistant director or middle management level. Knowledge of ministerial
operations. Broad knowledge and understanding of the functional areas
covered by an executive authority's portfolio. Proven management
competencies. Working knowledge of political and parliamentary processes in
South Africa. Computer literacy and good verbal and written communication
skills.
DUTIES : Monitor events in Parliament and in Cabinet to identify matters that have a
bearing on the Minister's portfolio. Render an efficient and effective
parliamentary service. Coordinate and control movements between the
Pretoria and Cape Town offices for Parliamentary sessions (where applicable).
Study the relevant public service and departmental prescripts, policies and
other documents to ensure that they are properly understood and applied.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Dolly Masuku at 067 358 5859
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be emailed to pcs@dsti.gov.za
POST 32/58 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATION IN THE OFFICE OF THE
DIRECTOR-GENERAL REF NO: DSTI 2025/02
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 qualification in office management, public administration,
business management or other relevant field. A minimum of three years'
experience in a secretarial or administrative environment in a senior manager's
office. Excellent knowledge of government and parliamentary processes.
Knowledge of departmental processes, procedures, policies and protocols.
Knowledge of the Public Financial Management Act and Public Service
Regulations. Excellent organisational and time-management skills. Excellent
verbal and written communication skills. Good computer skills and telephone
etiquette. Strong negotiation skills. Ability to work under pressure and meet
deadlines. Ability to work with diverse people. Ability to work with and in teams.
Ability to multitask. Punctual, reliable and attentive to detail.
52
DUTIES : Plan, organise and coordinate the Director-General's diary. Provide the
Director-General with secretarial, administrative, document and record-
management, and other operational support. Coordinate the Director-
General's travel and accommodation, as well as other logistical arrangements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Dolly Masuku at 067 358 5859
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be emailed to dda@dsti.gov.za
POST 32/59 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SECRETARIAT SUPPORT IN THE OFFICE OF THE
DIRECTOR-GENERAL REF NO: DSTI 2025/03
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 qualification in public administration, office management,
business administration, business management or other related qualification.
A minimum of three years' experience in a secretarial or administrative
environment. Knowledge of government, cabinet and parliamentary processes.
Knowledge and understanding of government policies, processes and
procedures. Knowledge and understanding of the national system of
innovation. Good knowledge and understanding of the Public Finance
Management Act and Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of the Minimum
Information Security Standards. Financial, stakeholder liaison, negotiation and
problem-solving skills. Ability to work with diverse people. Ability to work under
pressure, independently and in a team. Customer and service orientation.
Project management.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial services during executive meetings and bilateral meetings
with DSTI entities. Monitor the implementation of executive meeting decisions.
Provide support in the coordination of parliamentary processes. Provide
secretarial support for ministerial management meetings. Manage
subordinates. Providing strategic support to the Director-General.
Coordination, implementation and monitoring of ad hoc projects as delegated
and per deadlines.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Dolly Masuku at 067 358 5859
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be emailed to ddsso@dsti.gov.za
53
ANNEXURE I
DEPARTMENT OF SPORT, ARTS AND CULTURE (DSAC)
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted using one of the following methods: Email
quoting the reference number and post title in the subject line to
recruitment2024@dsac.gov.za. There will be no follow-up emails to this
address. Hand delivery: Sealed envelope addressed to The Chief Director:
Human Resource Management and Development, Sechaba House, 202
Madiba Street, Pretoria Central. Postal by mail to The Chief Director: Human
Resource Management and Development, Private Bag X897, Pretoria, 0001.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. Applications
received after the closing date will NOT be considered or accepted.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : Each application must be submitted separately. Applications must consist of: A
recently updated, comprehensive CV, a fully completed, initialled and signed
new Z83 form (Sections A, B, C&D are compulsory and must be completed in
full, and sections E, F and G are not compulsory if the information is contained
in the CV). However, the question related to conditions that prevent
reappointment under Part F must be answered. Use of the old Z83 Form or not
completing compulsory sections of the application form will result in a
disqualification. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to bring certified
copies of ID, Driver’s licence (where required) and qualifications on or before
the interview. Should you be in possession of any foreign qualification(s), it
must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualification Authority (SAQA); Applicants must be South African citizens.
Shortlisted candidates must avail themselves for a virtual or in-person panel
interview at a date and time determined by DSAC. The applicant should make
own arrangement for access to internet connectivity and equipment for this
purpose. Applicants must note that pre-employment checks and references will
be conducted once they are shortlisted. The appointment is also subject to a
positive outcome on these checks, including security clearance, security
vetting, qualification/study verification, citizenship verification, financial/asset
record check, previous employment verification and criminal record. If an
applicant wishes to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing. We
encourage all applicants to declare any criminal and/or negative credit records.
All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate will be required
to enter into an employment contract and sign an annual performance
agreement. The Department of Sport, Arts and Culture is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be informed by the
Employment Equity Plan of the Department to achieve its Employment Equity
targets. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and
disability) through the filling of these posts. Should the Department not be able
to recruit candidates from disadvantaged groups, other groups will be
considered for appointment. The Department reserves the right not to make an
appointment and to use other recruitment processes, thus withdrawing this
advert by notice on its communication channels.
OTHER POSTS
POST 32/60 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SOUTH AFRICAN SIGN LANGUAGE
INTERPRETER REF NO: DSAC- 01/09/2025
The purpose of the job is to manage and provide sign language interpreting
and translation services at all Departmental events and assist in the
development and promotion of SASL.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate/ Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification; A minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6)/ Degree
(NQF level 7) in Language Practice specialising in South African Sign
Language (SASL) Interpreting/ Linguistics or any relevant Language
qualification. 2-3 years relevant experience at least 2 years as a Language
Practitioner in South African Sign Language interpreting services. A valid
driver’s license will be an added advantage. Competencies: Sound knowledge
54
of the Use of the Official Languages Act, 2012 (Act No.12 of 2012) and its
Regulations 2014. Knowledge of Departmental Language Policy. Knowledge
and understanding of Deaf culture and SASL grammatical structure.
Interpreting and translation skills. Knowledge of correctly interpreting in SASL.
Good interpersonal and communication skills. Computer literate. Planning and
organisational skills. Strong administration skills. Database development and
maintenance. Basic research skills. Conflict resolution. Should be prepared to
travel and work outside normal hours. Willingness to accept responsibility.
Ability to work under pressure and maintain a high level of confidentiality Ability
to manage time efficiently.
DUTIES : The incumbent manages and provides SASL Interpreting and translation
services in the Department: Manage interpretation schedules. Interpret spoken
language into SASL and vice versa in meetings, departmental events and
official engagements. Translate documents, speeches, or audio content into
SASL and/or video formats. Consultation with internal and external language
stakeholders. Coordinate and attend meetings. Conduct research and develop
a stakeholders’ databases. Research about SASL. Report writing. Analyse and
interpret information relevant to SASL. Keep abreast of the latest trends in
SASL. Provide support towards the promotion, development and use of SASL.
Create communication content and notices in SASL. Assist with Departmental
language policy implementation. Ensure compliance with the Use of Official
Languages Act and relevant legislation. Maintain confidentiality, impartiality
and professional ethics. Conduct training and workshops in the Department to
create awareness among employees on SASL and the Deaf culture. Promote
and support inclusive SASL communication practices in the Department.
Attend training in relation to SASL. Assist to develop and maintain a glossary
of government-related SASL terminology. Assist in SASL orthography and
terminology development. Identify applications and tools that need to be
developed for SASL. Support budget processes related to SASL services.
Liaise with relevant stakeholders such as PANSALB, Academic Institutions,
etc.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Ndima Tel No: (012) 441 3833
For general enquiries: Ms N Zinganto Tel No: (012) 441 3127
POST 32/61 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY REF NO:
DSAC-02/09/2025
The purpose of this job is to implement and maintain an information systems
security framework in line with compliance and cybersecurity standards of the
department.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification. A minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6)/ Degree
(NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Information Technology/ Information
Systems/ Computer Science/ Information Security or any relevant Information
Technology qualification. Certification in Information Systems Security is an
added requirement. 2-3 years relevant experience at least 2 years as a Chief
/Network Controller/ Information Technology Technician in an Information
Technology environment. Competencies: Knowledge of Public Service
Regulation. Knowledge of ICT security principles, especially around VPN and
remote access. Knowledge of national and departmental ICT security
regulations. Knowledge of back-up and recovery Systems and management
(VEEAM, NetBackup etc.) Knowledge in the design of cybersecurity and
information system security solutions and technologies. Knowledge of backup
systems and storage area networks. Knowledge of Firewalls and proxies.
Presentation Skills. Computer literacy. Planning and organisational skills. Good
communication and interpersonal relations. Problem solving skills. Client
Orientation and Customer Focus.
DUTIES : Implement and maintain Information Security Frameworks of the department:
Develop, implement, and continuously update the department’s information
systems security framework. Ensure that the systems infrastructure aligns with
security policies, compliance requirements, of the department. Oversee the
secure configuration process. Ensure servers are properly configured and
secured. Monitor and Secure Network Infrastructure. Monitor all network
security tools, antivirus systems, firewalls, mail/web filtering, and intrusion
detection systems. Perform regular reviews of system connectivity, unusual
55
activity or unauthorized access attempts. Participate in technical network audit
and security audits. Ensure secure remote access in the department. Conduct
Security Assessments and Risk Mitigation. Conduct regular vulnerability
assessments and security testing to identify and address potential system
weaknesses. Analyse results and implement risk mitigation strategies based
on identified vulnerabilities. Support internal and external ICT audits by
addressing VPN and related access control findings. Manage Access Control
and User Authentication. Oversee user access management processes.
Maintain IT access control solutions and systems. Check that the security logs
are kept and maintained. Audit reports generated by the access control system.
Creation/reset of users and passwords. Maintain and enforce multi-factor
authentication (MFA) for VPN and sensitive system access. Support Business
Continuity and Legal Compliance. Ensure secure data backup, storage, and
replication to support disaster recoveries. Monitor compliance with national ICT
security laws and policies. Implement audit recommendations. Contribute to
the development and rollout of security policies and procedures. Create
awareness training in the department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Phala Tel No: (012) 441 3738
For general enquiries: Ms N Zinganto Tel No: (012) 441 3127
56
ANNEXURE J
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT
Department of Transport is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer with clear employment
equity targets. Department of Transport is an equal opportunity employer and these posts will be filled in
accordance with employment equity targets of the department.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Transport, Private Bag X193, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at
the 159 Forum Building, Cnr Struben and Bosman Street, Pretoria for attention
Recruitment Unit. Room 4034 or email to: Recruitment@dot.gov.za. Note:
email applications must be sent as one attachment to avoid non-delivery of the
email and only quotes the name of the post you are applying for on the Subject
Line as directed on the post note.
CLOSING DATE : 26 September 2025
NOTE : Applications must be accompanied by a completed new Z83 form, obtainable
from any Public Service Department, (or obtainable at). Applicants must fill in
full new Z83 form part A, B, C, and D. A recent updated comprehensive CV
(previous experience must be comprehensively detailed, i.e. positions held and
dates). Applicants will submit certified copies of all qualifications and ID
document on the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). The Department reserves the right not to fill the post. All shortlisted
candidates for will be subjected to undertake a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job; the logistics will be communicated
to candidates prior to the interviews. Recommended candidates will also be
required to attend a generic managerial competency assessment after the
interviews also take a note that National School of Governance (NGS) has
introduce compulsory SMS pre-entry certificate with effect from 01 April 2020
as Minimum Entry Requirements for Senior Management Services (submitted
prior to appointment) and can be accessed through the following link:
http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The
successful candidate must disclose to the Director-General particulars of all
registrable financial interests, sign a performance agreement and employment
contract with the Director-General within three months from the date of
assumption of duty. The successful candidate must be willing to sign an oath
of secrecy with the Department. Applicants will be expected to be available for
selection interviews and assessments at a time, date and place as determined
by the Department. An offer letter will only be issued to the successful
candidate once the following has been verified educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. Please
note: Correspondence will only be entered into with short-listed candidates.
OTHER POSTS
POST 32/62 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PHYSICAL SECURITY REF NO: DOT/HRM/2025/18
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all inclusive
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Qualification at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA in Policing Management/
Security Risk Management/ Safety and Security Management Disciplines
coupled with 3 years’ experience at a management or Assistant Director level
in a security Management environment. State Security Agency Security
Management Courses, Working knowledge of the MISS, MPSS and other
applicable safety and security legislation, knowledge of the PFMA, Treasury
Regulations, Public Service Act, Labour Relations Act and other Acts and
Regulations governing the Public Sector, Advanced knowledge of crime
investigations and security risk assessments, knowledge of OHS and its
Regulations, Disaster Management Act, Fire Brigade Act and other relevant
legislation, SANS Standards and Municipality by laws, Skills and
Competencies: Computer literacy (Ms. word, Ms. Excel, Ms. Power Point),
Analytical thinking and logic decision-making abilities, programme and project
management skills, Good interpersonal relations and communication skills at
all levels, conflict management skills, Problem solving and analysis skills, High
level of honesty and integrity.
57
DUTIES : The successful candidate will: Manage effective physical security policies and
procedures, develop, implement and constantly evaluate physical security
policies, procedures, plans and standards, develop, implement and manage
an integrated and effective physical security measures, i.e., mechanical,
electronic, procedural and manpower security measures, conduct physical
security assessments, audits, and inspections, develop improvement plans for
physical security, manage the contracted guarding security services,
implement and evaluate compliance with security policies, procedures and
plans, conduct regular physical security induction and awareness
programmes, manage day-to-day physical security operations that include:
access control, key control, control room operations, guarding and patrolling
services, etc, Ensure effective functionality, management and maintenance of
electronic security systems, develop and implement service and maintenance
schedule for all security and fire safety equipment, inspect and conduct tests
on security and fire equipment and initiate corrective actions, monitor and
ensure adherence to Service Level Agreement (SLA) standards by
services/systems providers, supervise all physical security systems
implementation and projects, Provide security investigations services, develop
security investigation procedures and standards, conduct investigations on all
reported physical security breaches and incidents, provide comprehensive
reports and recommendations on all cases investigated, develop and
implement an incident-tracking database, develop proactive security measures
to prevent and minimize security incidents and asset losses, Develop and
implement effective emergency plan, conduct threat and risk assessments that
can result in emergency situations, develop appropriate contingency plans and
subject the same to evaluation and endorsement by relevant external
government bodies, ensure appointment and training of contingency officials
in their respective duties, effectively participate in Emergency Management
Committee functions, effectively and regularly liaise with relevant external
government bodies and professional organizations, review and practice
contingency plans on an annual/bi-annual basis, Manage events security and
special assignments for Department, constantly engage the various Branches
and internal stakeholders to identify events that will be hosted by the
Department, monitor a schedule of events to be hosted by the Department and
submit appropriate Events Security Categorization applications in terms of
Safety at Sports and Recreation Events Act, 2010. Collaborate with law
enforcement and relevant stakeholders to ensure appropriate Event Safety and
Security Committee is established and Event Safety and Security Plan is
developed and implemented, identify key safety and security issues that may
threaten successful hosting of the Departmental events and develop and
implement mitigation plans, develop and implement security plans for
departmental special security assignments as may be required from time to
time, Manage the resources of the Sub-directorate, provide supervisory
leadership to subordinates, conduct informal and on-the-job training and
coaching to subordinates to maximize their job knowledge and service delivery,
facilitate training and empowerment of subordinates, manage performance of
subordinates, provide inputs to the Directorate’s Business Plan, utilize and
manage financial resources ( budget) effectively and efficiently, effective
communication and document management system.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Dube Tel No: (012) 309 3882
NOTE : Candidates must quote name of the post for the above-mentioned position on
the subject line when applying i.e., “Deputy Director: Physical Security:
Corporate Services”
POST 32/63 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFORMATION SECURITY REF NO:
DOT/HRM/2025/19
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all inclusive
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA in Security Risk
Management/ Policing Management/ Corrections Management/ Education
with 3 years’ experience at a management or Assistant Director level within the
Security Management environment. Valid Security Clearance certificate issued
by the State Security agency, State Security Agency Security Management
Courses, South African Defence force or south African police service. Working
knowledge of the MISS and other applicable safety and security legislation,
58
Leadership and Management experience, Public Service Act, Labour Relations
Act and other Acts and Regulations governing the Public Sector, knowledge of
the PFMA: Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy (Ms. word, Ms. Excel,
Ms. Power Point), Analytical thinking and logic decision-making abilities,
detection, analytical thinking, decision making and motivational abilities,
effective communication skills at all levels, report writing and presentation
skills, programme and project management skills, Good interpersonal relations
and communication skills at all levels, conflict management skills, Problem
solving and analysis skills, High level of honesty and integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will: Develop implement and manage an effective
document classification and protection programme, develop, implement and
constantly evaluate and review document security policies, procedures, plans
and standards. Conduct security risk assessments and surveys to identify the
different types of information contained in documents in the department.
Determine, in consultation with the State Security Agency (SSA) the categories
of information that should be classified, manage the register of the document
classification register, conduct document security audits and inspections to
determine whether sensitive documents have been properly classified, are
properly stored and all office security requirements are adhered to. Investigate
all incidents of document security breaches, and initiate appropriate corrective
actions, ensure that document security breaches are reported to the SSA,
formulate a document incident tracking data base, advise the DOT
management and all the relevant stakeholders on document security. Develop,
implement and ensure effective management of information communication
and technology (ICT) security, Develop and implement the Information
Communication and Technology (ICT) policy, Render ICT Security advisory to
the department, in terms of developing and implementing strategies to classify
information technology asset, Develop and implement IT assets protection
measures, Manage the process of Information Security Systems Audit and
penetration tests to be conducted SSA / COMSEC and ensure
recommendations on findings are implemented, Ensure that all ICT assets are
protected in accordance with IT governance and codes of good practice,
Identify telephones and faxes that require encryption devices. Manage the
speech and data encryption equipment supplied by COMSEC to the
department, ensure that regular Technical Surveillance Counter Measures
operations at strategic/sensitive areas are conducted, ensure that all incidents
of ICT security breaches are investigated, and initiate appropriate corrective
actions. Report the ICT security breaches to the SSA, and ensure the incident
is recorded on database for record tracking. Manage ICT security report from
Internal Audit, SSA, COMSEC and other Transport Agency, Ensure the users
of encryption devices meet the COMSEC requirements. Develop, implement
and manage educational security (security awareness, induction, briefing, etc),
Develop a comprehensive educational security/awareness program iro
document, personnel and ICT security, Manage the implementation of
information security awareness and induction programmes, Constantly
evaluate impact of and relevancy of educational programs, conduct research
on new developments and ensure improvement, Determine and review the
security training and awareness needs of personnel, contractors and
consultants and arrange for such training, Ensure that personnel, contractors
and consultants are trained and their security awareness enhanced in handling
classified, personal and valuable information correctly, Regularly consult with
the SSA to determine any new developments or changes in the security training
and awareness fields, Ensure the users of encryption devices are trained on
usage of the equipment, Provide document, ICT, personnel security advisory
services to DoT agencies, transversal functions, events, etc. Partake in all
departmental projects that have document, ICT or personnel security
implications, Render security advisory services to DoT’s agencies iro above
functions as may be necessary, Render above services to all national and
international events organized by the department as assigned, Coordinate, in
collaboration with SSA, all aspects of security accreditations in events
organized by the department as assigned, Conduct informal and on-the-job
training and coaching to subordinates to maximize their job knowledge and
service delivery, Manage events security and special assignments for
Department. Establish, implement and manage events safety and security
policy that ensure compliance with legislation that governs events hosting
requirements; Constantly engage the various Branches and internal
stakeholders to identify events that will be hosted by the Department; Monitor
59
a schedule of events to be hosted by the Department and submit appropriate
Events Security Categorization applications in terms of Safety at Sports and
Recreational Events Act, 2010; Collaborate with law enforcement and relevant
stakeholders to ensure appropriate Event Safety and Security Committee is
established and Event Safety and Security Plan is developed and
implemented; Identify key safety and security issues that may threaten
successful hosting of the Departmental events and develop and implement
mitigation plans; Develop and implement security plans for departmental
special security assignments as may be required from time to time. Manage
the resources of the Sub-directorate, Monitor activities of the sub-directorate.
Facilitate training and empowerment of subordinates, manage performance of
subordinates, provide inputs to the Directorate’s Business Plan, Provide inputs
to the DOT’s Strategic Plan, Annual Performance Plan and Quarterly Reports,
Effective communication and document management system.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. R Masilela Tel No: (012) 309 3767
NOTE : Candidates must quote name of the post for the above-mentioned position on
the subject line when applying i.e., “Deputy Director: Information Security:
Corporate Services”
POST 32/64 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TRANSPORT SECURITY AND EVENTS
COORDINATION REF NO: DOT/HRM/2025/20
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all inclusive
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA in Security Risk
Management / Policing Management / Corrections Management / Social
Sciences with 3 years’ experience at a management or Assistant Director level
within the security management environment. Security Vetting Course as
offered by: State Security Agency/ South African Defence Force or South
African Police Service, Valid Security Clearance Certificate, knowledge of the
MISS and other relevant security directives, legislation and regulations,
Leadership and management experience, knowledge in PFMA; Skills and
Competencies: effective communication skills at all levels, report writing and
presentation skills, planning, organizational skills, relationship and conflict
management skills, detection, analytical thinking, decision-making and
motivational abilities, high level of honesty and integrity, analysis of information,
listening and interviewing skills, computer literacy, compilation of management
reports, , power-point Presentation Skills, mentoring and Coaching skills.
DUTIES : Manage transport–sector intergovernmental security committee and
coordinate implementation of transport safety, security and stability goals
outlined in National Security Strategy, Coordinate the implementation of
transport activities outlined and emanating from National Security Strategy
(NSS) and National Joint Operations and Intelligence Structure (NATJOINTS);
Represent the department on inter-governmental special operations
sanctioned by NATJOINTS; Participate in relevant transport sector inter-
governmental committees and ensure that safety, security and stability issues
affecting the department are appropriately addressed; Coordinate the
Transport Security Coordinating Committee activities and provide
administrative support; Coordinate tasks allocated to Transport Security
Coordinating Committee members and provide support in executing their tasks
where necessary. Manage events security and special assignments for the
Department, Establish, implement and manage events safety and security
policy that ensure compliance with legislation that governs events hosting
requirements; Constantly engage the various Branches and internal
stakeholders to identify events that will be hosted by the Department; Monitor
a schedule of events to be hosted by the Department and submit appropriate
Events Security Categorization applications in terms of Safety at Sports and
Recreational Events Act, 2010; Collaborate with law enforcement and relevant
stakeholders to ensure appropriate Event Safety and Security Committee is
established and Event Safety and Security Plan is developed and
implemented; Identify key safety and security issues that may threaten
successful hosting of the Departmental events and develop and implement
mitigation plans; Develop and implement security plans for departmental
special security assignments as may be required from time to time. Manage
the administration and management of vetting fieldwork processes, Establish
and develop systems and processes that will ensure compliance in relation to
60
the relevant legislation. Manage the vetting fieldwork unit in accordance with
the National Vetting Strategy, Manage the Security Vetting Adjudication System
(SVAS) and Security Vetting Information System (SVIS) to comply with the
vetting fieldwork investigations' requirements. Coordinate, prioritize and
monitor vetting files, Conduct quality control on all vetting investigation files.
Provide feedback and identify gaps in the investigations and refer back to
vetting officers for follow up. Submit vetting investigations report and files to
State Security Agency (SSA) for polygraph examination, evaluation and the
issuance of security clearances. Receive security clearance outcomes from
SSA and sign them off for issuance to respective officials/ applicants. Liaise
with internal and external stakeholders. Liaise with SSA, Defence, Home
Affairs, SAPS and other stakeholders for advice in the enhancement of vetting
processes within the NDOT. Make follow-up enquiries with SSA regarding the
progress of vetting files submitted. Refer SSA recommendations to Employee
Health and Wellness for intervention. Provide feedback to DoT officials on the
progress of their vetting applications. Initiate research and benchmarking for
the Improvement of Internal Processes, Draft submissions to the DG regarding
security clearance' denials, Provide personnel security advisory services to
NDoT agencies, transversal functions, events, etc. Participate and interact with
other government departments regarding benchmarking exercises, training,
workshops and meetings. Develop and implement effective personnel security,
i.e. security screening and vetting process, Develop and implement vetting and
screening security policies, procedures and standards. Develop a strategy to
Identify all positions that require to be vetted and appropriate security
clearance levels. Provide departmental-wide advice on personnel security
matters. Develop and implement vetting and security screening strategies and
plans, Manage the vetting and pre-employment screening reports from State
Security Agency, ensure that all new employees are subjected to pre-
employment security screening prior appointment. Ensure that all service
providers are subjected to security screening process prior/during contracting.
Manage the resources of the sub-directorate, Manage the vetting fieldwork
investigations of officials within the department by ensuring that files are
allocated timeously to vetting officers, Compile and submit the, completed
vetting files to SSA in the prescribed format, coordinate resources to ensure
the proper functioning of the vetting fieldwork unit. Participate in projects and
task teams dealing with vetting matters. Identify skills development needs and
provide training and development opportunities for vetting field-workers.
Monitor the proper utilization of equipment and the budget allocated for vetting
fieldwork, mentor and coach the vetting fieldworkers in the section, administer
the performance management development system within the Sub-directorate.
Develop appropriate tactical/operational plans and strategies aligned to the
Directorates strategies, plans and objectives. Provide effective HR and labour-
related administrative functions. Utilize and manage financial resources
(budget) effectively and efficiently. Provide leadership to subordinates.
Conduct informal and on-the-job training and coaching to subordinates to
maximize their job knowledge and service delivery. Develop business plan
Report on Sub-directorate’s progress (quarterly report and annual reports),
Manage and monitor the vetting database. Analyse all security risks relating to
all pre-screening results and vetting results and initiate appropriate actions and
recommendations. Liaise with HR and Supply Chain Management in relation
with the screening of Companies and DoT employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. R Masilela Tel No: (012) 309 3767
NOTE : Candidates must quote name of the post for the above-mentioned position on
the subject line when applying i.e., “Deputy Director: Information Security:
Corporate Services”
POST 32/65 : SECURITY OFFICER: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO:
DOT/HRM/2025/21
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/ Grade 12, Grade “C” PSIRA accredited certificate,
one-year experience within the security industry. A National Certificate in
Security Management is an added advantage, Knowledge of Control of Access
to Public premises and Vehicle Act and other relevant legislations; Knowledge
and skills: Good planning, organizing and coordinating skills; Good
61
communication and interpersonal skills; computer literacy, ability to work under
pressure.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will: Render access control services, administer
access control to all employees and visitors and ensure that all aspects of
access control are complied with, issue access control permits and receive
same on departure, ensure that all visitors are fetched from reception/access
control point and escorted throughout building by hosts, subject employees and
visitors to walkthrough detection systems and ensure that weapons and
unauthorized articles are not taken into the building, ensure that private
firearms are locked in appropriate firearms safe facility, place baggage to X-ray
examination and ensure that all unauthorised items/article detected are
prevented from entering the premises, ensure that all private property brought
into the building are declared in the appropriate registers, ensure that all assets
removed from the premises are accompanied by appropriate asset removal
permits, provide statistical reports in respect of access control administration,
Provide effective control room operations and electronic security systems
monitoring, monitor all electronic security systems at control room, check for
the operation of all electronic systems during one’s shifts, dispatch patrolling
security officers to respond to detected security breaches and irregularities,
record all security breaches detected and actions initiated, test all fire
equipment and two-way communications on the commencement and
termination of one's shift regularly, serve as a centre of communication for the
security department by receiving, recording, and ensuring response to all
internal and external requests/complaints, ensure that all fire detection and
monitoring equipment are working and regular serviced, in case of emergency,
set the access control doors on emergency mode, verify location of employees
in the building through access control system and carry out any other duties as
may be instructed, ensure that the control room serves as the integral part of
the operational security, activate Armed Response in case of duress situations,
provide statistical reports with regard to control room operations, provide
general guarding and patrolling security services, conduct inspections inside
and outside the building and record all security breaches and irregularities
discovered, conduct office inspections to check compliance with office security,
remove all vulnerable assets abandoned in risky areas and safely keep them
in safe custody, check perimeter fence and electronic security systems
deployed around the building on commencement and termination of one’s shift,
conduct vehicular searches where appropriate and necessary, during
emergency situations or evacuation drills, provide security services as may be
necessary, conduct escort duties as may be necessary, conduct inspections on
all fire equipment and OHS related risks and hazards, provide Guarding during
external & internal events, monitor, report and investigate security breaches,
report all security breaches, monitor, record and investigate all incidents,
provide assistance during events.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Dube Tel No: (012) 309 3882
NOTE : Candidates must quote name of the post for the above-mentioned position on
the subject line when applying i.e., “Security Officer: Corporate Services”
62
ANNEXURE K
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/ Other related documentation such as copies
of qualifications, identity document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany
the application when applying for a post as such documentation must only be
produced by shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA
circular 19 of 2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or
occupational registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be
completed as these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or
disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No
late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
pertaining to Senior Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical and competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained
from the National School of government is required prior to the appointment.
Candidates will be required to complete a financial disclosure form and
undergo security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must
provide a police clearance certificate from country of origin (only when
shortlisted). The Department of Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity
employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of
the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment
Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of the Department will be
taken into consideration. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within three (3) months of this
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful.
Faxed applications will not be considered. The department reserves the right
not to fill these positions. Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged
to apply and preference will be given to the EE Targets.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 32/66 : CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER: PONGOLA-UMZIMKULU CATCHMENT
MANAGEMENT AGENCY REF NO: PUCMA 05
(Five-year performance-based contract)
Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied must re-apply.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Durban
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum Degree / Higher / Advanced Diploma in Science / Engineering
(NQF Level 7) or equivalent. A post qualification (NQF level 8) in Administration
/ Science / Engineering or relevant. Related professional or an MBA or relevant
master’s degree will be an added advantage. Minimum of ten (10) years
relevant experience in the Water Sector is essential. Five (5) years of which
must be at a Senior Management / Executive level. Facilitation,
communication, senior management program, stakeholder engagement/
public participation process courses, water resources management.
Knowledge of Integrated Water Resources Management, National Water
Management Act, Public service administration processes, High level Financial
Management and Corporate Governance. Skills required Organisational
Management, Conflict Resolution, Strategic View, People Management and
Leadership, Financial Management and Planning. Attitudes required,
openness and transparency. Open to take advice and to learn from colleagues.
Objectivity in the management of the Agency’s affairs. May be required to travel
extensively. May be required to plan and travel at short notice. May be
subjected to extended working hours. May be required to provide information
to the Governing Board and respond to Ministerial queries at any given time.
DUTIES : Facilitate and ensure the development/review of the Pongola-Umzimkulu
Catchment Management Agency (PUCMA). Oversee the development and
implementation of a 5-year strategic plan of the PUCMA. Oversee the
63
development and implementation of the PUCMA’s Annual Performance Plan.
Oversee the submission and reporting of Annual Reports and Quarterly
Reports. Prepare and present the PUCMA reports to the Department of Water
and Sanitation, Parliamentary Committees, and the Governing Board.
Coordinate the development of a comprehensive Corporate Plan. Oversee the
performance and service delivery of the PUCMA. Oversee the coordination of
the Governing Board, Risk-, EXCO- and Audit Committee sittings. Approval of
agendas, minutes, and reports of the committees before distribution. Oversee
the work of the committees. Recommendation of internal and external policies
& procedures documentation to the Governing Board and PUCMA committees
for approval. Oversee the effective coordination of stakeholder participation
and empowerment strategies. Signing and approval of Memoranda of
Agreement (MOA’s) and Memoranda of Understanding (MOU’s) related to
external parties. Approval of the PUCMA contract of employment for
candidates. Oversee the championing of transformation of water resource
management within the Pongola-Umzimkulu Water Management Area. Will be
responsible for the appointment of bid committees, approval of bid
specifications, review recommendations from the bid adjudication committees
and approve for the appointment of successful bidders in line with the PUCMA
delegation of authority. Oversee the effective implementation and maintenance
of all administrative, financial, and technical support systems for the delivery of
water resource management services. Establish and maintain sound project
management systems. Ensure that the PUCMA finance and procurement
processes are managed in line with the PFMA, PPPFA, National Treasury and
other relevant regulations. Oversee the proper management of the PUCMA
assets and physical resources. Supervise and manage executives and all
direct reporting employees. Sign performance agreements and review
performance of the executives and all the direct reporting employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Conrad Greve Tel No: (012) 336 8402
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
OTHER POSTS
POST 32/67 : ENGINEER PRODUCTION GRADE A-C (INFRASTRUCTURE
DEVELOPMENT & REFURBISHMENT PROGRAMMES) REF NO:
190925/01
Branch: Water and Sanitation Services Management: Mpumalanga
CD: Provincial Operations: Mpumalanga
SALARY : R879 342 - R1 323 267 per annum, (OSD), (Offer will be based on years of
experience)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : A Civil / Agricultural Engineering Degree (B Eng / BSC (Eng). Three (3) years
post-qualification engineering experience. Compulsory registration with the
Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineer (Pr
Eng). The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Programme and
project management. Knowledge and understanding of Government
Procurement for the Infrastructure projects. Knowledge and understanding of
Government Legislations relevant to the Sector. Engineering design and
analysis knowledge. Research and development. Technical report writing.
Team leadership, planning and organizing and analytical skills. Financial,
conflict and people management skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Design new systems to solve practical engineering challenges and improve
efficiency and enhance safety. Plan, design, operate and maintain engineering
projects. Ensure through evaluation that planning and design by others is done
according to sound engineering principles and according to norms and
standards and code of practice. Develop cost effective solution according to
standards. Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard drawing and
procedures to incorporate new technology. Analyses and advises on the
planning, design, construction and maintenance of wastewater systems and
water supply systems, including collection, treatment, storage, distribution and
discharge. Development of planning / operation models or decision support
systems for water resource development / management. Develop tender
specifications. Development of Business Plan. Approve engineering works
according to prescribed norms and standards. Ensure training and
development of technicians, technologists and candidate engineers to promote
64
skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound engineering principles and
code of practice. Supervise the engineering work and processes. Administer
performance management and development. Ensure adherence to regulations
and procedures for procurement and personnel administration. Manage
Human Resources. Monitor and control expenditure. Report on expenditure
and service delivery. Liaise with relevant stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Matiso Tel No: (013) 759 7330 / Ms F Mkhwanazi Tel No: (013) 759 7515
/ Ms PC Ngwamba Tel No: (013) 759 7446
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 32/68 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: 190925/02 (X3 POSTS)
Branch: Director-General
Chief Directorate: Internal Audit
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A bachelor’s degree in accounting/ Auditing/ Internal Audit. A postgraduate
qualification or PIA/ CIA or similar certification will serve as an added
advantage. Three (3) to Five (5) years internal audit experience. Over five (5)
years’ experience in internal auditing will be an added advantage. Two years’
experience in the Water Sector or Local Government. Over two years’
experience in the Water Sector or Local Government will be an added
advantage. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license is compulsory.
Knowledge and understanding on Human Resource Management legislations,
policies, practices, and procedures. Understanding of Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations and guidelines. Knowledge of
Public Service Anti-corruption strategy and anti-corruption and fraud
prevention measures. Knowledge of equal opportunities and affirmative action
guidelines and laws. Knowledge of administrative and clerical procedures and
systems. Understanding of departmental policies and procedures.
Understanding of government financial systems, principles and practices of
financial accounting. Knowledge of framework for managing performance
information. Understanding of business strategy transaction and alignment.
Problem solving and analysis People and diversity management. Client
orientation and customer focus. Good communication skills both (verbal and
written). Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Manage the internal audit / compliance audit / performance audit / forensic
investigation and quality assurance audits / general control review and
application control sub directorate. Develop strategic internal audit /
compliance audit / performance audit / forensic investigation and quality
assurance audits / general control review and application control plans.
Participate in the coordination with other internal and external service providers
of assurance to ensure proper coverage to minimise duplication of effort. Keep
up to date with new developments in the internal audit / compliance audit /
performance audit / forensic investigation and quality assurance audits /
general control review and application control environment. Manage the sub-
directorate audit / performance audit / forensic investigation and quality
assurance audits / general control review and application control. Provision of
Administrative support to the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Legodi Tel No: (012) 336 8802
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 32/69 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN GRADE A (WATER SERVICES
INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT & REFURBISHMENT
PROGRAMMES) REF NO: 190925/03
Branch: Water and Sanitation Services Management
CD: Provincial Operations Mpumalanga
SALARY : R551 493 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Civil Engineering. Six (6) years post qualification civil
technical engineering experience. Compulsory registration with the
Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineering
Technician. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Supervisory
experience. Knowledge of Water Legislation and related policies. Proficient in
65
computer programs, preferably MS Office Software (Word, Excel and
PowerPoint) Good planning and organizing skills, problem-solving skills,
communication skills, conflict resolution skills, (verbal and written)
interpersonal relations and project management.
DUTIES : Management of the water supply and sanitation services infrastructure grants
and programmes. Management of Infrastructure development projects funded
through infrastructure grants-RBIG and WSIG. The provision of project
implementation support services to the Water Services Authorities (WSAs).
The provision of technical engineering support services. Provide and
consolidate inputs to the technical/engineering operation plan. Ensure the
development, implementation and maintenance of the database. Manage,
supervise and control technical related personnel and assets. Liaise with
relevant bodies/councils on engineering related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Matiso Tel No: (013) 759 7330 / Ms F Mkhwanazi Tel No: (013) 759 7515
/ Ms PC Ngwamba Tel No: (013) 759 7446
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 32/70 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: 190925/04
Branch: Water and Sanitation Services Management: KZN
CD: Provincial Operations KZN
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Durban
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in Financial Management at NQF level 07.
Three (3) years supervisory experience in the area of Financial Accounting.
The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s licence. Knowledge of Treasury
Regulations, financial regulations, Public Finance Management Act and budget
control. Knowledge of Cash Accounting. Good managerial skills, good written
and verbal communication skills, good presentation skills and excellent
interpersonal relations. Knowledge and practical experience in BAS and
PERSAL. Principles and practice of Financial Accounting processes in
Government. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Verify and approve payment transactions. Maintain master file information.
Manage liabilities and commitments within budget constraints. Consolidate
General ledger reconciliations. Prepare Quarterly and Annual Financial
statements. Consolidate and reconcile payroll data and prepare statutory and
other payroll returns. Management of the Human Resources in the Unit.
Assessing the Performance of Officials in the unit (PMDS).
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Nyanginsimbi at (060) 587 5455
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 32/71 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING – MAIN ACCOUNT
REF NO: 190925/05
Branch: Water And Sanitation Services Management
CD: Provincial Operations Mpumalanga
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in Financial Management at NQF level 07.
Three (3) years relevant supervisory experience in the area of Financial
Accounting. Knowledge and understanding of Human Resource Management
Legislation, policies, practices and procedures. Public Finance Management
Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations and guidelines. Public Service Anti-
Corruption Strategy and anti-corruption and fraud prevention measures.
Knowledge of equal opportunities and Affirmative Action guidelines and laws.
Knowledge of administrative and clerical procedures and systems.
Departmental policies and procedures. Practical experience in Governmental
financial systems; LOGIS, BAS, PERSAL and computer literacy (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint). Principles and practice of financial accounting. Framework for
managing performance information. Behavioural Competencies: People and
Diversity Management. Client orientation and customer focus. Accountability
and Ethical Conduct. The suitable candidate must be willing to work under
pressure, handle conflict, have good verbal and written communication skills
and be a team leader. A driver’s license will be an added advantage.
66
DUTIES : Manage accounts payable on LOGIS and BAS. Expenditure management.
petty cash management. Manage payroll administration. Clearing of all
suspense accounts on the main account. Prepare presentations and meetings.
Ensure the proper filing of all financial documentation. Attend to all personnel
matters and their PMDS. Writing reports for the division. Compile accurate
monthly and quarterly reports on all financial aspects. Ensure timeous
submission of complete and accurate input on scheduled tasks and enquiries.
Manage and consolidate general ledger reconciliations. Attend all queries
related to financial accounting. Attend to audit matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SC Ngomane Tel No: (013) 759 7358 / Ms F Mkhwanazi Tel No: (013) 759
7515 / Ms PC Ngwamba Tel No: (013) 759 7446
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 32/72 : SENIOR HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER REF NO: 190925/06
Branch: Corporate Support Services
CD: Human Resource Management
Dir: Planning, Recruitment and Selection
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma at (NQF) level 6 in Human Resources Management or
relevant qualification. Three (3) to four (4) years’ experience in Recruitment
and Selection and appointment procedures. Experience in developing and
managing data to track progress on filling of posts. Knowledge and experience
in drafting reports and submissions. Knowledge and experience of
administrative, clerical procedures and systems. Knowledge and
understanding of Human Resource Management legislation, policies,
practices, procedures and Human Resource Planning. Knowledge of equal
opportunities and affirmative action guidelines and laws. Understanding of
social, economic and development issues. Extensive knowledge of OSD.
Problem solving and decision-making skills. Good communication and
presentation skills (written and verbal). Strong negotiation and conflict
management skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate Recruitment and Selection processes. Prepare detailed schedules
(long list), score sheet and applications from the Z83 application system.
Supply statistics regarding employment equity. Facilitate the shortlisting and
interview processes. Draft appointment submissions and route it for approval.
Render a human resource advisory service to line managers on recruitment
and selection. Ensure the promotion of effective human resource management.
Ensure that policies / legislations / prescripts are followed and complied with
during the recruitment and selection process. Monitoring and evaluation of all
HR processes, supervision, training and motivation of staff. Co-ordinate and
conduct investigations of human resource related problems and advise
management accordingly. Management of Human Resources which include,
staff and working allocation to the subordinates. Management of the
recruitment and selection database.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Van Wyk Tel No: (012) 336 7147
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 32/73 : CLEANER REF NO: 190925/07
Branch: Water and Sanitation Services Management: Mpumalanga
CD: Provincial Operations Mpumalanga
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : ABET. Basic numeracy and Literacy. Good interpersonal and communications
skills, must be able to handle confidential information. Experience and
knowledge of various cleaning consumables and operation of cleaning
equipment. Knowledge of health and safety requirements and understanding
of applying or using chemicals correctly.
DUTIES : Perform daily cleaning tasks – routine in the offices, kitchens and boardrooms
(clean, dust, sweep, mop, scrub and polish floors). Collecting and removing of
office waste, keeping and maintaining of cleaning equipment and wash of walls
and windows when required, operate vacuum cleaners and other machinery,
wash kitchen items, follow cleaning control protocols and procedures, ablution
67
facilities. Exercise control over cleaning materials in the absence of the
Supervisor. Prepare and serve refreshments during meetings and compliance
with all related duties that may be determined by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. BG Singwane Tel No: (013) 759 7539 / Ms F Mkhwanazi Tel No: (013) 759
7515 / Ms PC Ngwamba Tel No: (013) 759 7446
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
68
ANNEXURE L
DEPARTMENT OF WOMEN, YOUTH AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
The mandate of the Department is to lead on socio-economic transformation and implementation of the
empowerment and participation of women, youth and persons with disabilities through mainstreaming,
advocacy, monitoring and evaluation.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are urged to choose/ utilise one of the methods provided below: you
may forward your application, quoting reference, addressed to: The Director-
General, Department of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities, Private
Bag X931, Pretoria, 0001. Alternatively, applications may also be hand
delivered to 268 Lilian Ngoyi Street, Fedsure Forum Building, 1st floor, Pretoria
CBD. Another option is to submit applications through email. All attachments
for online application must include an application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF
and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the correct job title and the
reference number of the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct
email address associated with the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application
will not be accepted. Failure to do so, your application will be disqualified.
Kindly note that the emailed applications and attachments should not exceed
15 MB. General enquiries may be brought to the attention of Ms Lerato Segodi
012 359 0073/ Mr Amukelani Misunwa Tel No: (012) 359 0240
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : The Department of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities invites
applications for graduate internship opportunities for the 2025/27 financial year.
Unemployed applicants who have never participated in an internship
programme in any government department or parastatals are invited to apply.
Successful Interns will be placed in the Internship programme for a period of
24 months. Applications must be submitted on new Z83 form, which can be
downloaded from: http://www.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applications
submitted on the old application for employment (Z83) will not be considered.
All fields in the Z83 application form must be completed in full, in a manner that
allows a selection committee to assess the quality of a candidate based on the
information provided in the form. It is therefore prudent that fields be completed
by applicants and signed, noting the importance of the declaration. South
African applicants need not to provide passport numbers. Candidate must
respond “Yes “or “No“ to the question whether you are conducting business
with the state. If “Yes”, details thereof only shortlisted candidates will submit
Declaration form for conducting business with the state when shortlisted to the
application. It is acceptable for applicant to indicate “not applicable” or leave a
blank to the question “In the event that you are employed in the Public Service,
will you immediately relinquish such business interest?” Applicants are not
required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents but
must submit the completed and signed Z83 and detailed Curricula Vitae. The
communication from HR of the Department regarding the requirement for
certified document will be limited to shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only
shortlisted candidate for a post will be required to submit certified documents
on or before the day of the interview following communication from HR. Non-
RSA citizens/permanent resident permit holders must submit a copy only when
shortlisted. Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). Should you not hear from the Department within three (3)
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to fill
and/or make an appointment to any of the advertised posts. Short-listed
candidates may be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job as part of the selection process, the
logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. Successful
candidates shall be required to enter into performance agreement within three
(3) months of assuming their duties in the Department, and within one (1)
month of the date of their appointment conclude the prescribed contract of
employment. Designated employees shall be required to disclose their financial
interest within 30 days after assumption of duty. Appointments will only be
made on the first notch of the advertised salary level. All shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to personal security vetting. Note that in terms of the
Protection of Personal Information Act, 2021, the Department will ensure the
protection of applicants ‘personal information and only collect, use and retain
applicants’ personal information for the purposes of recruitment and selection
69
processes. The Department shall safeguard such personal information against
access by unauthorised persons, unlawful disclosure, or breaches. The
Department is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of these posts, the
objectives of section 195 of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa and
the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act 55 of 1998) will be taken into
consideration and preference will be given to Women, Youth and Persons with
Disabilities.
INTERNSHIPS PROGRAMME FOR 2025/2027
OTHER POSTS
POST 32/74 : INTERN: ADVOCACY AND MAINSTREAMING, RIGHTS OF PERSONS
WITH DISABILITIES REF NO: DWYPD/ RPD01/2025 (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Advocacy and Mainstreaming for the Rights of Persons with
Disabilities
(24 Months)
STIPEND : R7 860. per month
CENTRE Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Monitoring and Evaluation/Research /Statistics/Law
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sarah Mabizela Tel No: (012) 359 0075
APPLICATIONS : Recruitment01@dwypd.gov.za
POST 32/75 : INTERN: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS, STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT
AND CAPACITY BUILDING REF NO: DWYPD/MERC02/2025 (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: International Relations, Stakeholder Management and
Capacity Building
(24 Months)
STIPEND : R7 860. per month
CENTRE Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in International Relations or Political Sciences
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sarah Mabizela Tel No: (012) 359 0075
APPLICATIONS : Recruitment01@dwypd.gov.za
POST 32/76 : INTERN: SOCIAL EMPOWERMENT OF WOMEN REF NO:
DWYPD/JTJS03/2025 (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Social Empowerment of Women
(24 Months)
STIPEND : R7 860. per month
CENTRE Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Honours Degree in Gender Studies/Development Studies
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sarah Mabizela Tel No: (012) 359 0075
APPLICATIONS : Recruitment01@dwypd.gov.za
70
ANNEXURE M
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY SAFETY, ROADS AND TRANSPORT
(Fleet Management Trading Entity)
It is the Department’s intention to promote Equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of these
posts with a candidate whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote representativity in line with
the numeric targets contained in our Employment Equity Plan.
APPLICATIONS : Applications for the Department of Community Safety, Roads and Transport to
be submitted to: Acting Chief Director: Fleet Management, Cnr Harvey &
Rhodes Avenue, Oranjesig, Bloemfontein, 9300 or delivered by Hand at
Government Garage Building, Bloemfontein. Applications can also be emailed
in the following address: fleetrecruitment@freetrans.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
NOTE : Directions to applicants: All applications must be submitted on a NEW Z83
form, which can be downloaded on internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
copies of qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of
the interview following communication from Human Resources. Each
application form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialed by the
Applicant. The application must indicate the correct Job title, the office where
the position is advertised and the Reference number as stated in the advert.
Failure by the applicant to fully complete, sign and initial the application form
will lead to disqualification of the application during the selection process.
Applications on the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you
be in a possession of foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA).
Dual citizenship holders must provide the Police Clearance certificate from
country of origin when shortlisted. All non-SA Citizens will be required to submit
a copy of proof of South African permanent residence when shortlisted.
Applications that do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements will
not be considered. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record, financial checks, qualification verification,
citizenship checks, reference checks and employment verification).
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered. The
Department does not accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the
requested documents will result in the Application not being considered during
the selection process. All successful candidates will be expected to enter into
an employment contract and a performance agreement within 3 months of
appointment, as well as be required to undergo a security clearance three (3)
months after appointments.
OTHER POST
POST 32/77 : TRADESMAN AID (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Ref No: FMTE 01/08/2025 (X6 Posts)
Welkom Ref No: FMTE 02/08/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or equivalent appropriate qualification as recognised by SAQA. Six
(6) months of trade-related qualification. Knowledge of the Occupational Health
and Safety Act. Basic knowledge of cleaning material. Knowledge to prepare
material and tools for assessment tasks. Communication, reading and writing
skills. Technical background knowledge of the trade. Skill to use cleaning
material. Good knowledge of performing minor maintenance and repairs on
assessment aids and machinery.
DUTIES : Assist the mechanical Artisan in execution of maintenance, repairs and
services of the machinery and mechanical installations. Carry tools and
71
equipment and keep them in a good condition. Properly prepare material and
tools for assessment tasks, a day before assessment. Safeguard
workshop/assessment area, machines, tools and consumable material.
Maintain cleanliness and general good housekeeping within the
workshop/assessment area. Perform minor maintenance and repairs on
assessment aids and machinery and carry out safety activities in the
workshop/assessment area. Transport allocated assets etc. from asset
management to the workshop when required as well as transporting redundant
assets etc. from the workshop to asset management when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J. Kwalepe at 060 843 5868
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
It is the intention of the Department to promote representative through the filling these positions. The
candidature from the designated groups especially women and people with disabilities will be given a
preference and no hand delivery will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS : Applications for the Department of Social Development to be submitted to:
Private Bag X20616, Bloemfontein, 9300. Attention Ms AW Molalenyane –
Human Resource Management (Recruitment Section) Old Standard Bank
Building, or place applications in an application box at Cnr Charlotte Maxeke
and West Burger Street, Old Standard Bank Building, Bloemfontein. Tel No:
083 555 9270. or E-mail to recruitment@fssocdev.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly complete New Z83 form (effective
from 01 January 2021) obtainable from any Public Service Department or on
the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents, for SMS (senior management
service) posts: In terms of DPSA Directive on compulsory capacity
development, mandatory training, and minimum entry requirements for
members of the Senior Management Level for SMS appointments, it is a
requirement for applicants to have obtained pre-entry Certificate (Nyukela) as
offered by the National School of Government (NSG) for entry into the SMS
posts and the full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme (the
SMS pre-entry certificate is not a requirement for shortlisting; is submitted prior
to appointment). Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit a fully signed
Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. Shortlisted candidates will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications, and other relevant documents to HR
on or before the interview date. Applicants with foreign qualifications would be
required to submit an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) on or before the day of the interview. Failure to submit all the
requested documents will disqualify the application. Correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within six
(6) months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial/asset record check, qualification/study verification and previous
employment verification). Successful candidates will also be subjected to
security clearance processes. Where applicable, candidates will be subjected
to a skills/knowledge test. The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. Successful candidates will be appointed on a probation
period of 12 or 24 months. Misrepresentation in the application documents will
result in automatic disqualification and disciplinary action in the event the
candidate has already been appointed. It is the department’s objective to
address the Employment Equity Affirmative Action Measures in line with the
Employment Equity Plan and to achieve equitable representation across race
and gender. In the filling of these posts gender equity and people living with
disability will be highly considered to adhere to the EE targets of the
department. The Department reserves the right to amend/ review/ withdraw
advertised posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well
served. (Females and People with disabilities are also requested to apply and
indicate such in their applications).
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the post of Director: Supply Chain Management
with Ref No: DSDFS 71/251 advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 30
dated 22 August 2025 has been withdrawn.
72
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 32/78 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: DISTRICTS AND INSTITUTIONS REF NO: DSDFS 65/25
This is a re-advertisement from PSVC 30. Applicants who have previously
applied need not re-apply. Their applications will be considered.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), an all-inclusive package. The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government’s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for structuring of the flexible portion, and which
may include a 13thcheque, motor car allowance, home owner’s allowance and
medical aid assistance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognized by SAQA in social
work. Five (5) years relevant experience at a Senior Managerial Level.
Registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions as a
Social Worker. SMS Pre–Entry is not a requirement for shortlisting but must be
submitted prior to the appointment The candidate must have sound knowledge:
White Paper on Social Welfare, Integrated Service Delivery model and
reviewed Social Welfare Services Framework and Social Welfare Legislations.
The candidate must have strategic capabilities and leadership skills, change
management skills, problem solving and conflict management, people
management and conflict management, people management and empowering
skills, knowledge management and networking skills. Values/attitudes: Batho
Pele principles. Appointment is subject to the following: Performance
Agreement, Vetting, SMS Contract, Competency Assessment, and Financial
Disclosure. NB: Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise
that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which
will be communicated.
DUTIES : To oversee the management and facilitation of the implementation of integrated
developmental social services at district level. Ensure the co-ordination and
integration of service delivery to service points and departmental institutions.
Oversee the effective management of the Districts by monitoring the provision
of Social Welfare Services, facilitating the provision of Community
Development, Support Services and Financial Management. Coordinate
implementation of services at the Institutions of the department. Ensure
implementation of partnerships strategy to mobilize role players and
stakeholders to strengthen service delivery. Facilitation of District development
model for the Department. Provide strategic Leadership. Manage key areas of
personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MF Finger at 072 954 3160
POST 32/79 : DIRECTOR: SECURITY ADMINISTRATION, ANTI-FRAUD AND
CORRUPTION REF NO: DSDFS 72/25
This is a re-advertisement from PSVC 30. Applicants who have previously
applied need not re-apply. Their applications will be considered.
SALARY : R1 266 741 per annum (Level 13), an all-inclusive package. The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government’s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for structuring of the flexible portion and which
may include a 13thcheque, motor car allowance, home owner’s allowance and
medical aid assistance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) in Security
Management/Public Administration/ General Management or equivalent
qualification as recognized by SAQA, coupled with a minimum of 5 years
middle/senior managerial level experience in security administration. A valid
driver’s license. Experience and knowledge of all aspects of security and
specifically electronic security systems and acts, prescripts and guidelines
relevant to security. Strong leadership, people management and
communication (written and verbal) skills. Other skills required include
computer literacy, drafting of policies and procedures, problem solving, basic
project and financial management and presentation skills. The successful
candidate must have excellent interpersonal relations, innovative ideas to
improve service delivery and the ability to mobilize and motivate staff to ensure
implementation of these innovations. A requirement for appointment at Director
73
Level is the successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-entry
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government. Appointment
is subject to the following: Performance Agreement, Vetting, SMS Contract,
Competency Assessment, and Financial Disclosure. NB: Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant
technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be communicated.
DUTIES : Ensure the provision and management of the 24 hour Physical security and
access control to the departmental premises, Co-ordinate security issues
related to events as part of a project team, Management of personnel security
including security clearances, Conducting of security audits, management of
ICT security related to physical assets and information security, management
of security staff, management of section budget and expenditure and
conducting and management of investigations related to security breaches.
Manage and co-ordinate physical security, security advise and anti -corruption
issues in the Department. Implement fraud plans required in terms of the
PFMA, which fraud plans must specifically address the corruption risk. Ensure
that the previous employment, qualifications, citizenship and criminal record of
all persons are verified before they are employed. Develop and maintain a
system(s) to encourage and allow employees and citizens to report corruption,
providing for confidentiality of reporting, the recording of allegations of
corruption received through the system or systems and a formal institutional
arrangement for acting on such allegations. Investigate allegations, institute
and complete disciplinary action for cases of corruption in consultation with the
labour relations unit of the Department, detect corruption and refer allegations
of corruption to a relevant law enforcement agency or other appropriate
agencies / bodies in terms of a formal arrangement. Establish a programme or
programmes that inform employees on an ongoing basis on what constitutes
corruption, promote the departmental and national policies that must be
adhered to, including the values and principles of public administration as
contained in the Constitution and standards of professional conduct, inform
employees of corruption risks, encourage employees to report corruption,
inform employees on the nature and working of protected disclosures and
witness protection, and informs employees of obligations and rights in terms of
the Access to Information and Promotion of Administrative Justice Acts. Ensure
that the employees of the department have positive security clearances and
disclose financial interests to the accounting officer on an annual basis.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MF Finger at 072 954 3160
DEPARTMENT OF SPORT, ARTS, CULTURE AND RECREATION
Free State Provincial Government is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer. It is our intention
to promote representatively (race, gender and disability) in the province through the filling of these posts
and candidates whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote representatively will receive
preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are urged to choose/ utilise one of the methods provided to forward
application to: Department of Sport, Arts Culture and Recreation, Human
Resource Management Directorate (Recruitment Division), Applications
maybe hand delivered (drop off - application box) Ground Floor, Zana Building,
Corner Hill and Henry Street, Bloemfontein OR submit application through
email as a single scanned document/one PDF attachment to the email address
specified (kindly note that the emailed application and attachments should not
exceed 5mb) alternatively courier to Zana Building, corner Hill and Henry Street
Bloemfontein, Room 10 (Attention Ms L Twala)
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
NOTE : Applications should be submitted on form Z.83, which can be downloaded from
www.dpsa.gov.za and must be accompanied by a comprehensive CV only.
Applications submitted on the old application for employment (Z83) will not be
considered. All fields in the Z83 application form must be completed in full
(Separate application for every reference number). Subject matter must reflect
the post reference number on the email. It will be expected from Shortlisted
candidates to present certified copies of qualifications once interview process
is communicated. Candidates who possess foreign qualifications and/or short
courses certificates must take it upon themselves to have their qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Non-RSA
citizens must provide proof of permanent residence permit (if shortlisted). The
onus is on the applicants to ensure that their applications are couriered or hand
delivered timeously as no applications received after the closing date and as
74
well as incomplete applications will be considered. Applicants are respectfully
informed that shortlisted candidates are subjected to pre-employment
screening (verification of qualification, security clearance, citizenship, credit
record check and employment verification), to determine suitability for
employment. If no notification of appointment is received within 4 months of the
closing date, applicants must accept that their application was unsuccessful.
Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a practical pre-entry assessment
that intends to test relevant technical, generic and integrity elements link to
specific post. The suitable candidates will be selected with intention of
promoting representavity and achieving EE targets as contemplated in the
departmental Employment Equity plan.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 32/80 : DIRECTOR: LIBRARY SERVICES REF NO: 3100/10
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum. This all-inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension
fund and a flexible portion that may be structured in term of the applicable rules.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of an appropriate recognized NQF level 7
qualification e g Library and Information related study field. At least 5 years
working experience at a middle or senior managerial level, preferably in the
public sector. Service. Knowledge in sound management, planning,
organization, policy development and strategic as well as financial planning.
Valid Driver’s License.
DUTIES : Provide Strategic advice and direction to the Library Services Directorate, to
ensure operational effectiveness of all public libraries within the province as
well as the establishment of a professional support service to ensure
availability of specialized library and information services. Responsible for the
creation of an enabling environment for the development, transformation and
promotion of sustainable library and information services Ensure effective
management, coordination and monitoring of library services in the Free State
Policy development, analysis and implementation with reference to national
and provincial policies including FS Growth and development strategies and
other ;legislation link to Library Services Participate in preparing and reviewing
the departments’ performance management system by setting key
performance indicators (KPI’s) aligned with the strategic and annual
performance plan as well as regular monitoring and reporting on KPI as
required including the uphold of integrated governance by complying with
MTEF and integration with the cluster. Plan, organise lead and control
preparation and submission of an annual business plan for the Chief
Directorate as well as risk management. Initiate plan, execute monitor and
control projects for which are assign to the chief Directorate. Initiate plan,
execute monitor and control programs link to various project, program
outcomes in respect of performance outcomes stated in annual performance
plan Responsible for budget management (Voted as well conditional Grant
Budget allocation), implementation of supply chain management system and
practices, human resources management , knowledge management as well
as contract management in respects of all sub-directorates allocated under
his/her span of control to ensure effective service delivery activities undertaken
by the directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Lerato Twala at 066 479 1247
APPLICATIONS : recruit.ly@sacr.fs.gov.za
NOTE : Following the interview and technical exercise, for the above two posts the
selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments for Senior Management
Service positions No appointment shall be finalized without the relevant
candidate producing the pre-entry certificate for SMS ( Nyukela) It will be
required from the successful candidate to enter into an employment agreement
with the department and disclosure of his/her financial interest.
75
ANNEXURE N
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
“We strive to create an environment that brings the power of diversity to life and as such, this
Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote inclusiveness
in all occupational levels in the Department”
OTHER POSTS
POST 32/81 : HEAD CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1 REF NO: GS11/25
Component: Cardiology
Institution: Greys Hospital
SALARY : R2 084 754 per annum, (all-inclusive package), consists of 70% basic salary
and 30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable rules,
Plus Commuted overtime which is based on Departmental operational needs.
Employee must sign the commuted overtime contract form annually.
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Matric Certificate/Grade 12. MBChB or equivalent. Registered HPCSA
qualification as a Specialist in Cardiology. Certificate in Cardiology (SA) or
equivalent qualification (if not trained in South Africa). Current Registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa as a Cardiologist. Five years’
experience as a registered Specialist in Cardiology. Competent in
interventional cardiology. Valid driver’s license. Knowledge, Skills, Experience
and Competencies: Sound clinical Cardiology and patient management skills.
A working knowledge of human resource management; information
management; quality assurance programs; current health and public service
legislation, regulations, and policy; medical ethics; financial management.
Teaching and research experience.
DUTIES : Incumbent to be based at Greys Hospital. Clinical Responsibilities:
Participation in Tertiary Cardiology Services (both In-patient and Out-patient)
in the Pietermaritzburg Metropolitan Area including Outreach Programs and
development of Cardiology services in Area 2. Clinical responsibility in the
discipline of Cardiology and General Specialist Internal Medicine with after-
hours participation (based on departmental operational need). Performance of
clinical procedures in the cardiac catheterization theatre that include coronary
angiography, stent insertion, pacemaker insertion, intra-aortic balloon counter-
pulsation and other procedures as may be developed. Performance of
procedures in non-invasive cardiology including two dimensional and Doppler
echocardiography, tilt testing and stress ECGs. Presentation of adequately
worked up cases at the Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Inkosi Albert
Luthuli Hospital for surgical intervention. Management Responsibilities:
Development and support of Specialist Cardiology Services in the Tertiary
Drainage area of Greys Hospital. Oversight and management of clinical and
allied staff in the Cardiology Unit and Coronary Care Unit. Oversight and
management of infrastructure, equipment and consumables in the Cardiology
Unit. Liaison with Institutional Management in hospitals in PMB Metro, the
uMgungundlovu District and the Tertiary Drainage area. Liaison with the Head
Clinical Department in Internal Medicine in Pietermaritzburg and Head of
Cardiology at the University of KwaZulu Natal. Participation in and support of
administrative and clinical governance activities in the PMB Departments of
Cardiology and Medicine Training and Research Responsibilities: Support of
Staff Training including subspecialty Cardiology training in the PMB
Metropolitan area under the auspices of the Department of Cardiology at the
University of KwaZulu Natal. Participation in and support of the Medical
Undergraduate and Postgraduate Training Programs in the PMB Departments
of Cardiology and Internal Medicine. Participation in and support of clinical
research and quality control activities in the PMB Departments of Cardiology
and Medicine.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Bizaare Tel No: (033) 897 3290
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. “Applicants are
encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs” or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address. Malinee.Chandul@kznhealth.gov.za “Applicants may
also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS)
76
where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or receiving your
hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online Application
Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
All Applications Should Be Forwarded To: Human Resource Management
Department, Greys Hospital, Private Bag X9001, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 OR
Hand delivered to: Greys Tertiary Hospital Townbush Road Pietermaritzburg.
(Attention: Ms NC Cele) NB://Applications for these posts can be dropped-off
at your nearest Health Facility.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed Application for
Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed, initialed and dated.
Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be considered. All required
information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or disclose all
information will automatically disqualify the applicant. The Z83 should be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed experience). Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the
interview following communication from Human Resources. The appointments
are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State Security Agency
(SSA) to the following checks (security clearance (vetting), criminal clearance,
credit records, citizenship), verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA,
verification of previous experience from Employers and verification from the
Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC). Applicants with foreign
qualifications are requested to have their qualifications evaluated by SAQA and
to provide proof of such evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that you submit
your application before the closing date as no late applications will be
considered. If you apply for more than 1 post, submit separate applications for
each post that you apply for quoting the relevant reference number. Should
you not be contacted within 3 months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please consider your application to be unsuccessful. Note: Commuted
overtime at all Grades is based on departmental operational needs and is
renewed on an annual basis
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/82 : HEAD CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1 REF NO: GS12/25
Component: Gastroenterology
SALARY : R2 084 754 per annum, (all-inclusive package), consists of 70% basic salary
and 30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable rules,
Plus Commuted overtime which is based on Departmental operational needs.
Employee must sign the commuted overtime contract form annually.
CENTRE : Greys Hospital, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Matric Certificate/Grade 12. MBCHB Or Equivalent Plus. Registered HPCSA
qualification as a Specialist in Gastroenterology Plus. Certificate in
Gastroenterology (SA) or equivalent qualification (if not trained in South Africa).
Five (5) years’ experience after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist
in Gastroenterology. Current Registration with the Health Professions Council
of South Africa as a Gastroenterologist. Valid driver’s license Knowledge,
Skills, Experience and Competencies: Sound clinical Gastroenterology and
patient management skills. A working knowledge of human resource
management; information management; quality assurance programs; current
health and public service legislation, regulations and policy; medical ethics;
financial management. Teaching and research experience.
DUTIES : Incumbent to be based at Greys Hospital. Clinical Responsibilities:
Participation in Tertiary Gastroenterology Services (both In-patient and Out-
patient) in the Pietermaritzburg Metropolitan Area including Outreach
Programs and development of Gastroenterology services in Area 2. Clinical
responsibility in the discipline of Gastroenterology and Internal Medicine with
afterhours participation (based on departmental operational need).
Performance of clinical procedures related to gastrointestinal and hepatic
conditions. Management Responsibilities: Development and support of
Specialist Gastroenterology Services in the Tertiary Drainage area of Greys
Hospital. Oversight and management of clinical and allied staff in the
Gastroenterology Unit. Oversight and management of infrastructure,
equipment and consumables in the Gastroenterology Unit. Liaison with
Institutional Management in hospitals in PMB Metro, the uMgungundlovu
District and the Tertiary Drainage area. Liaison with the Head Clinical
Department in Internal Medicine in Pietermaritzburg and Head of
77
Gastroenterology at the University of KwaZulu Natal. Participation in and
support of administrative and clinical governance activities in the PMB
Departments of Gastroenterology and Medicine. Training and Research
Responsibilities: Support of Staff Training including subspecialty
Gastroenterology training in the PMB Metropolitan area under the auspices of
the Department of Gastroenterology at the University of KwaZulu Natal
Participation in and support of the Medical Undergraduate and Postgraduate
Training Programs in the PMB Departments of Gastroenterology and Internal
Medicine. Participation in and support of clinical research and quality control
activities in the PMB Departments of Gastroenterology and Medicine.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M. Bizaare Tel No: (033) 897 3289
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. “Applicants are
encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs” or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address. Malinee.Chandul@kznhealth.gov.za “Applicants may
also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS)
where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or receiving your
hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online Application
Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
All Applications Should Be Forwarded To: Human Resource Management
Department Greys Hospital Private Bag X9001, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 OR
Hand delivered to: Greys Tertiary Hospital, Townbush Road, Pietermaritzburg.
(Attention: Ms NC Cele) NB://Applications for these posts can be dropped-off
at your nearest Health Facility.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed Application for
Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed, initialed and dated.
Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be considered. All required
information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or disclose all
information will automatically disqualify the applicant. The Z83 should be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed experience). Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the
interview following communication from Human Resources. The appointments
are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State Security Agency
(SSA) to the following checks (security clearance (vetting), criminal clearance,
credit records, citizenship), verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA,
verification of previous experience from Employers and verification from the
Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC). Applicants with foreign
qualifications are requested to have their qualifications evaluated by SAQA and
to provide proof of such evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that you submit
your application before the closing date as no late applications will be
considered. If you apply for more than 1 post, submit separate applications for
each post that you apply for quoting the relevant reference number. Should you
not be contacted within 3 months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please consider your application to be unsuccessful. Note: Commuted
overtime at all Grades is based on departmental operational needs and is
renewed on an annual basis.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/83 : HEAD CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) OPHTHALMOLOGY GRADE 1 REF NO:
GS13/25
Component: Surgery
Re-advertisement, Candidates who previously applied must re-apply.
SALARY : R2 084 754 per annum, (all-inclusive package), consists of 70% basic salary
and 30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable rules,
Plus Commuted overtime which is based on Departmental operational needs.
Employee must sign the commuted overtime contract form annually. It is
envisaged that the successful candidate will be sharing administrative duties
and responsibilities at Grey’s Hospital. This will facilitate optimum service
provision at Grey’s hospital and the relevant drainage area.
CENTRE : Greys Hospital, PMB Metropolitan Hospitals Complex
REQUIREMENTS : Matric Certificate/Grade 12. MBCHB or Equivalent qualification Plus A
specialist qualification in the appropriate Health Science. Plus, Registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa for independent practice as
an Ophthalmologist with significant experience in the relevant discipline. At
78
least five years post registration experience as a Specialist in Ophthalmology.
Valid driver’s license Knowledge, Skills, Experience and Competencies:
Appropriate Specialist procedures and protocols within field of Ophthalmology.
Sound knowledge of Human Resource management. Financial Management
– monitoring of expenditure, Essential Drug List, Management functions –
policy analysis and implementation, strategic management, project
management, information management, total quality management and
improvement, legal aspects, patient care and service delivery, applicable
mandatory requirements and Acts, Regulations, Protocols and Guidelines used
in Health Services. Planning and developing an appropriate program for
Ophthalmology advancement in the Metropolis and in the referring regional
hospitals. Good communication, leadership, decision-making and clinical skill.
Develop and foster co-operation with Medical School and UKZN. Competence
in undergraduate, postgraduate and subspecialty training. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Clinical Care: Incumbent to provide ophthalmology services at Grey’s Hospital,
in the Pietermaritzburg Metropolitan Hospitals Complex and the tertiary
drainage area. Participate in the delivery of a 24-hour in-patient and out-patient
ophthalmology care within the Pietermaritzburg Metropolitan Hospitals
Complex and the tertiary drainage hospitals. Develop management protocols
for the ophthalmology patients in accordance with the level of care of the
Metropolis and referral hospitals. Provide appropriate ophthalmology care to
patients in the Metropolis and tertiary drainage area; Maintain and monitor
specialist, medical officer and registrar ophthalmology call system Accept
responsibility for continuous professional development in ophthalmology (in
reach and outreach program) in area 2. Develop and participate in outreach
program for ophthalmology for area 2. Scholarship: Provide support,
supervision and mentorship to colleagues, postgraduate students and medical
officers within ophthalmology. Manage the fifth-year undergraduate teaching
program for ophthalmology including examinations. Manage the postgraduate
training for ophthalmology in Grey’s hospital including clinical training and
MMed research support. Participate in and support the UKZN academic
program for the ophthalmology department. Stimulate and conduct sponsored
and non-sponsored research activities for departmental and institutional
development. Professionalism: Incorporate the principles of proper discipline
within ophthalmology, good communication within the department and other
disciplines, interdisciplinary collaboration and proper ethics within
ophthalmology. Governance: Develop infrastructure and equipment
procurement and maintenance plans for ophthalmology. Develop plans for staff
recruitment, retention, development and performance assessment for
ophthalmology at grey’s hospital. Procure appropriate theatre equipment to
meet tertiary needs. Accept responsibility for development and fulfilment of
departmental objectives. Provide appropriate CPD activities within the
employing institution (Grey’s Hospital). Institute Quality Assurance plans to
maintain and improve ophthalmology standards in the Metropolis and in the
referring hospitals. Foster collaboration with other hospitals within the tertiary
drainage areas to improve level of care locally and to facilitate proper referral
patterns.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M. Bizaare Tel No: (033) 897 3289
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. “Applicants are
encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs” or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address. Malinee.Chandul@kznhealth.gov.za “Applicants may
also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS)
where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or receiving your
hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online Application
Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
All Applications Should Be Forwarded To: Human Resource Management
Department Greys Hospital, Private Bag X9001, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or
Hand delivered to: Greys Tertiary Hospital Townbush Road Pietermaritzburg.
(Attention: Ms NC Cele) NB://Applications for these posts can be dropped-off
at your nearest Health Facility.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed Application for
Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed, initialed and dated.
Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be considered. All required
information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or disclose all
information will automatically disqualify the applicant. The Z83 should be
79
accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed experience). Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the
interview following communication from Human Resources. The appointments
are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State Security Agency
(SSA) to the following checks (security clearance (vetting), criminal clearance,
credit records, citizenship), verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA,
verification of previous experience from Employers and verification from the
Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC). Applicants with foreign
qualifications are requested to have their qualifications evaluated by SAQA and
to provide proof of such evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that you submit
your application before the closing date as no late applications will be
considered. If you apply for more than 1 post, submit separate applications for
each post that you apply for quoting the relevant reference number. Should
you not be contacted within 3 months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please consider your application to be unsuccessful. Note: Commuted
overtime at all Grades is based on departmental operational needs and is
renewed on an annual basis.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/84 : HEAD CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1 REF NO: NGWE 01/2025
Department: Nephrology
SALARY : R2 084 754 per annum, all-inclusive salary package. Other Benefits: (70% of
basic salary and 30% benefits i.e. flexible portion that can be structured in
terms of applicable rules). Plus 18% In-hospitable area allowance. Commuted
Overtime which is determined by service delivery needs of the department.
CENTRE Ngwelezana Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Specialist in Nephrology. Appropriate tertiary qualification in the Health Science
(MBChB). Initial and current registration with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Nephrology. A minimum of 5
years appropriate experience as a Medical Specialist in Nephrology after
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required: Appropriate
specialist procedures and protocols within field of expertise. Understanding of
basic Human Resource matters including Labour Relations. Control of budget,
monitoring expenditure and project management. Assessment, diagnose and
management of patients within the field of expertise. Managerial and financial
management skills. Computer skills. Driving skills. Problem solving skills.
Concern of excellence. Courtesy and interpersonal relation skills. Stress
tolerance and innovation skills. Awareness of cross-cultural differences. Valid
driver’s license
DUTIES : Participate in the coordination of nephrology unit services for the discipline
within Region 4 (King Cetshwayo, Zululand and Umkhanyakude) to ensure
equitable distribution of all resources to achieve optimal patient care within
defined levels of institutional responsibility. Participate in the development of
tertiary services in the entire Region 4 and also to provide clinicians with expert
advice and opinion to aid diagnosis, management and treatment of patients.
Participate in the provision of vision, strategic direction and inspire employees
to deliver excellent, quality health services. Plan and partake in the planning of
staff including registrars, medical officers, community services officers, interns
and undergraduate medical students and also support relevant clinical
research, clinical trials and CPD activities. Render efficient and cost-effective
critical care services to patients managed by Ngwelezana Hospital. Strengthen
clinical governance. Participate in the formulation and management of
protocols in accordance with departmental policies that will have a positive
impact on staff and ensure that staff is aware and comply with guidelines and
procedures. Provide measures and guidance on quality assurance to comply
with set quality standards. Manage the performance of allocated human
resources. Ensure that the environment complies with Health and Safety Act,
staff adhere to the safety precautions and make sure that staff is maintained to
attain optimal productivity. Ensure equipment is maintained and functional at
all times. Render effective administrative support. Provide after hour courage
and ensure continuous clinical support to junior staff. Attend to meetings and
workshops as directed. Comply with all legal prescripts, acts, legislative,
80
policies, circulars, procedures, guidelines and code of conduct for public
service. Adhere to correct channels of communication as per the hospital
organogram. Maintain clinical, professional and ethical standards.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. RS Moeketsi Tel No: (035) 901 7000
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. “Applicants are
encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs” or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address. Malinee.Chandul@kznhealth.gov.za “Applicants may
also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS)
where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or receiving your
hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online Application
Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
All applications should be forwarded to: Human Resource Management
Department Greys Hospital Private Bag X9001, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 OR
Hand delivered to: Greys Tertiary Hospital Townbush Road Pietermaritzburg.
(Attention: Ms NC Cele) NB://Applications for these posts can be dropped-off
at your nearest Health Facility.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed Application for
Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed, initialed and dated.
Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be considered. All required
information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or disclose all
information will automatically disqualify the applicant. The Z83 should be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed experience). Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the
interview following communication from Human Resources. The appointments
are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State Security Agency
(SSA) to the following checks (security clearance (vetting), criminal clearance,
credit records, citizenship), verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA,
verification of previous experience from Employers and verification from the
Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC). Applicants with foreign
qualifications are requested to have their qualifications evaluated by SAQA and
to provide proof of such evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that you submit
your application before the closing date as no late applications will be
considered. If you apply for more than 1 post, submit separate applications for
each post that you apply for quoting the relevant reference number. Should
you not be contacted within 3 months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please consider your application to be unsuccessful. Note: Commuted
overtime at all Grades is based on departmental operational needs and is
renewed on an annual basis
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/85 : HEAD CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1 REF NO: NGWE 02/2025
Department: Urology
SALARY : R2 084 754 per annum, all-inclusive salary package. Other Benefits: (70% of
basic salary and 30% benefits i.e. flexible portion that can be structured in
terms of applicable rules). Plus 18% In-hospitable area allowance. Commuted
Overtime which is determined by service delivery needs of the department.
CENTRE Ngwelezana Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Specialist in Urology. Appropriate tertiary qualification in the Health Science
(MBChB). Initial and current registration with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Urology. A minimum of 5 years
appropriate experience as a Medical Specialist in Urology after registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Specialist. Proof of current and previous working experience endorsed by
Human Resource department (certificate of service). Applicants must submit
confirmation letter of relevant experience from their supervisors in an official
letterhead of the employer when they apply. Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies Required: Appropriate specialist procedures and protocols
within field of expertise. Understanding of basic Human Resource matters
including Labour Relations. Control of budget, monitoring expenditure and
project management. Assessment, diagnose and management of patients
within the field of expertise. Managerial and financial management skills.
81
Computer skills. Driving skills. Problem solving skills. Concern of excellence.
Courtesy and interpersonal relation skills. Stress tolerance and innovation
skills. Awareness of cross-cultural differences. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Participate in the coordination of urology unit services for the discipline within
Region 4 (King Cetshwayo, Zululand and Umkhanyakude) to ensure equitable
distribution of all resources to achieve optimal patient care within defined levels
of institutional responsibility. Participate in the development of tertiary services
in the entire Region 4 and also to provide clinicians with expert advice and
opinion to aid diagnosis, management and treatment of patients. Participate in
the provision of vision, strategic direction and inspire employees to deliver
excellent, quality health services. Plan and partake in the planning of staff
including registrars, medical officers, community services officers, interns and
undergraduate medical students and also support relevant clinical research,
clinical trials and CPD activities. Render efficient and cost-effective critical care
services to patients managed by Ngwelezana Hospital. Strengthen clinical
governance. Participate in the formulation and management of protocols in
accordance with departmental policies that will have a positive impact on staff
and ensure that staff is aware and comply with guidelines and procedures.
Provide measures and guidance on quality assurance to comply with set
quality standards. Manage the performance of allocated human resources.
Ensure that the environment complies with Health and Safety Act, staff adhere
to the safety precautions and make sure that staff is maintained to attain
optimal productivity. Ensure equipment is maintained and functional at all
times. Render effective administrative support. Provide after hour courage and
ensure continuous clinical support to junior staff. Attend to meetings and
workshops as directed. Comply with all legal prescripts, acts, legislative,
policies, circulars, procedures, guidelines and code of conduct for public
service. Adhere to correct channels of communication as per the hospital
organogram. Maintain clinical, professional and ethical standards.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. RS Moeketsi Tel No: (035) 901 7000
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. “Applicants are
encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs” or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address. Malinee.Chandul@kznhealth.gov.za “Applicants may
also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS)
where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or receiving your
hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online Application
Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
All Applications Should Be Forwarded To: Human Resource Management
Department Greys Hospital, Private Bag X9001, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 OR
Hand delivered to: Greys Tertiary Hospital Townbush Road Pietermaritzburg.
(Attention: Ms NC Cele) NB://Applications for these posts can be dropped-off
at your nearest Health Facility.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed Application for
Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed, initialed and dated.
Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be considered. All required
information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or disclose all
information will automatically disqualify the applicant. The Z83 should be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed experience). Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the
interview following communication from Human Resources. The appointments
are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State Security Agency
(SSA) to the following checks (security clearance (vetting), criminal clearance,
credit records, citizenship), verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA,
verification of previous experience from Employers and verification from the
Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC). Applicants with foreign
qualifications are requested to have their qualifications evaluated by SAQA and
to provide proof of such evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that you submit
your application before the closing date as no late applications will be
considered. If you apply for more than 1 post, submit separate applications for
each post that you apply for quoting the relevant reference number. Should
you not be contacted within 3 months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please consider your application to be unsuccessful. Note: Commuted
overtime at all Grades is based on departmental operational needs and is
renewed on an annual basis.
82
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/86 : HEAD CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1 REF NO: NGWE 03/2025
Department: Radiology
SALARY : R2 084 754 per annum, all-inclusive salary package. Other Benefits: (70% of
basic salary and 30% benefits i.e. flexible portion that can be structured in
terms of applicable rules). Plus 18% In-hospitable area allowance. Commuted
Overtime which is determined by service delivery needs of the department.
CENTRE : Ngwelezana Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Specialist in Radiology. Appropriate tertiary qualification in the Health Science
(MBChB) Initial and current registration with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Radiology. A minimum of Five
(5) years appropriate experience as a Medical Specialist in Radiology after
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist. Knowledge, Skills, and Competencies Required:
Appropriate specialist procedures and protocols within field of expertise.
Understanding of basic Human Resource matters including Labour Relations.
Control of budget, monitoring expenditure and project management.
Assessment, diagnose and management of patients within the field of
expertise. Managerial and financial management skills. Computer skills.
Driving skills. Problem solving skills. Concern of excellence. Courtesy and
interpersonal relation skills. Stress tolerance and innovation skills. Awareness
of cross-cultural differences. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Participate in the coordination of radiology unit services for the discipline within
Region 4 (King Cetshwayo, Zululand and Umkhanyakude) to ensure equitable
distribution of all resources to achieve optimal patient care within defined levels
of institutional responsibility. Participate in the development of tertiary services
in the entire Region 4 and also to provide clinicians with expert advice and
opinion to aid diagnosis, management and treatment of patients. Participate
in the provision of vision, strategic direction and inspire employees to deliver
excellent, quality health services. Plan and partake in the planning of staff
including registrars, medical officers, community services officers, interns and
undergraduate medical students and also support relevant clinical research,
clinical trials and CPD activities. Render efficient and cost-effective critical care
services to patients managed by Ngwelezana Hospital. Strengthen clinical
governance. Participate in the formulation and management of protocols in
accordance with departmental policies that will have a positive impact on staff
and ensure that staff is aware and comply with guidelines and procedures.
Provide measures and guidance on quality assurance to comply with set
quality standards. Manage the performance of allocated human resources.
Ensure that the environment complies with Health and Safety Act, staff adhere
to the safety precautions and make sure that staff is maintained to attain
optimal productivity. Ensure equipment is maintained and functional at all
times. Render effective administrative support. Provide after hour courage and
ensure continuous clinical support to junior staff. Attend to meetings and
workshops as directed. Comply with all legal prescripts, acts, legislative,
policies, circulars, procedures, guidelines and code of conduct for public
service. Adhere to correct channels of communication as per the hospital
organogram. Maintain clinical, professional and ethical standards.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. RS Moeketsi Tel No: (035) 901 7000
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. “Applicants are
encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs” or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address. Malinee.Chandul@kznhealth.gov.za “Applicants may
also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS)
where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or receiving your
hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online Application
Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
All Applications Should Be Forwarded To: Human Resource Management
Department Greys Hospital Private Bag X9001, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 OR
Hand delivered to: Greys Tertiary Hospital Townbush Road Pietermaritzburg.
(Attention: Ms NC Cele) NB://Applications for these posts can be dropped-off
at your nearest Health Facility.
83
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed Application for
Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed, initialed and dated.
Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be considered. All required
information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or disclose all
information will automatically disqualify the applicant. The Z83 should be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed experience). Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the
interview following communication from Human Resources. The appointments
are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State Security Agency
(SSA) to the following checks (security clearance (vetting), criminal clearance,
credit records, citizenship), verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA,
verification of previous experience from Employers and verification from the
Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC). Applicants with foreign
qualifications are requested to have their qualifications evaluated by SAQA and
to provide proof of such evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that you submit
your application before the closing date as no late applications will be
considered. If you apply for more than 1 post, submit separate applications for
each post that you apply for quoting the relevant reference number. Should you
not be contacted within 3 months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please consider your application to be unsuccessful. Note: Commuted
overtime at all Grades is based on departmental operational needs and is
renewed on an annual basis
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/87 : SENIOR MANAGER: MEDICAL SERVICES REF NO: M55/2025
Cluster: Hospital Management Services
SALARY : R1 826 139 per annum
CENTE : RK Khan Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : MBCHB Degree qualification; Plus Current registration with HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner; PLUS A Minimum of six (6) years’ experience as a
Manager: Medical Services (Non Clinical); Plus Unendorsed valid Code B
Driver’s License (Code 08) knowledge, skills, training and competencies
required: Possess sound knowledge of the relevant Acts, policies and
Regulations administered by the KZN Department of Health. Possess sound
knowledge of legislation relating to the practice of medicine in South Africa.
Have good communication, leadership, decision making, team building and
motivation skills. Be Computer literate with a proficiency in MS Office Software
Applications.
DUTIES : Ensure the provisions of protocols and guidelines to the Medical and Allied
Professions Team. Formulate policies and Procedures for clinical services and
ensure that they are in accordance with current statutory regulations and
guidelines. Provide leadership, management and support to all Cluster
Managers, Clinical Heads, Clinical Managers, Pharmacy, Allied Health
Professionals and all staff under their supervision. Advocate for safe quality
clinical care and lead hospital towards certification by Office of Health
Standards Compliance (OHSC). Liaise with other stakeholders within and
outside the Department of Health such as Chief Specialists, other hospital
management teams, the Health District Office and Medical School on Medical
and Management issues. Ensure optimal use of resources, both human and
financial. Put systems in place for good corporate and clinical governance in
compliance with preparations for full rollout of universal health coverage (NHI).
Continuously assess and build the required package of service according to
needs of the population. Ensure continuous monitoring of morbidity and
mortality through clinical audits. Formulate strategic plans in keeping with the
requirements of the hospital and the department as directed by the mission.
Ensure that cost-effective service delivery is maintained within the hospital.
Maintain discipline and deal with grievances and Labour Relations issues in
terms of the laid down policies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs RT Dube Tel No: (033) 940 2499
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. “Applicants are
encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address HeadOffice.JobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za.
Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres
84
(DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or
receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online
Application Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
All applications should be forwarded to: The Deputy Director: Human Resource
Management Services KZN Department of Health: Postal Address: P/Bag
X004, Chatsworth 4030 or Hand delivered to: Physical Address: RK Khan
Circle, Westcliffe. RK Khan Hospital (Attention: Mr. R Munsami)
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed Application for
Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed, initialled and dated.
Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be considered. All required
information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or disclose all
information will automatically disqualify the applicant. The Z83 should be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed experience). Persons with
disabilities should feel free to apply for the post. The appointments are subject
to positive outcomes obtained from the State Security Agency (SSA) to the
following checks (security clearance (vetting), criminal clearance, credit
records, citizenship), verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA,
verification of previous experience from Employers and verification from the
Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC). Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day
of the interview following communication from Human Resources. Foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by SAQA.
It is the applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by
SAQA and to provide proof of such evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that
you submit your application before the closing date as no late applications will
be considered. If you apply for more than 1 post, submit separate applications
for each post that you apply for. Should you not be contacted within 3 months
of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your application to be
unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/88 : CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REF NO: G43/2025
Cluster: Hospital Management Services
Job Purpose: To plan, direct co-ordinate and manage the efficient and delivery
of clinical and administrative support services through working with the key
executive management team at the hospital within the legal and regulatory
framework, to represent the hospital authoritatively at provincial and public
forums, to provide strategic leadership to improve operational efficiency within
the health establishment to improve health outcomes.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive MMS salary package)
CENTRE : Ekuhlengeni Psychiatric Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : A degree/advanced diploma in a health-related field, registration with relevant
professional council; Plus A degree/diploma in health management OR a
degree/advanced diploma in a management field. Plus At least 5 (five) years
management experience in the health sector. Experience as a health service
manager or significant experience in management in a health service
environment. Unendorsed valid Code B driver’s license (Code 08). NB: All
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit proof of work experience
endorsed and stamped by the employer/s prior to the date of the interview.
Competencies: Knowledge: Knowledge of relevant legislation such as National
Health Act, Public Finance Management Act (PMFA), Public Service Act and
related regulations and policies. Core Competencies: Strategic capability and
leadership, programme and project management, financial management
change management people management and empowerment. Progress
Competencies: Service delivery innovation, knowledge management, problem
solving and analysis, communication, client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Strategic Planning: Prepare a strategic plan for the Hospital to ensure that it is
in line with the 10-point plan, national, provincial, regional and district plans.
Financial Management: Maximise revenue through collection of all income due
to the Hospital, ensure that adequate policies, systems and procedure are in
place to enable prudent management of financial resources, planning of
financial resource mobilisation, monitoring and evaluation, asset and risk
management. Facility Management: Ensure business support and systems to
promote optimal management of the institution as well as optimal service
delivery, ensure that systems and procedures are in place to ensure planning
and timeous maintenance of facilities and equipment. Human Resource
85
Management: Develop, implement and maintain human resource management
policies and guidelines, systems and procedures that will ensure effective and
efficient utilisation of human resources, promote a safe and healthy working
environment through compliance with relevant legislation including occupation
health and safety committees. Ensure continuous development and training of
personnel and implement monitoring and evaluation of performance.
Procurement and Management of Equipment and Supplies: Implement a
procurement and provisioning system that is fair, transparent, competitive and
cost effective in terms of provincial delegated authority and in line with the
PFMA, ensure that goods and services are procured in a cost-effective timely
manner. Clinical and Corporate Governance: Oversee clinical governance to
ensure high standards of patient care, establish community networks and
report to the Hospital. Responsible for corporate governance inclusive of
infrastructure planning and maintenance as well as occupational health and
safety, manage the institution’s risk to ensure optimal achievement of health
outcomes.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs RT Dube Tel No: (033) 940 2499
APPLICATIONS : full posts details. “Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the
online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their
Z83 and CV directly to the following email address
HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za. Interested applicants can
visit the following website at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for Applicants may
also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS)
where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or receiving your
hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online Application
Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
All applications should be forwarded to: The Chief Director: Human Resource
Management Services KZN Department of Health Private Bag X9051,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200 OR Hand Deliver to: 330 Langalibalele Street, Natalia
Building, Registry, Minus 1:1 North Tower. (Attention: Mr. A Memela)
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed Application for
Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed, initialled and dated.
Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be considered. All required
information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or disclose all
information will automatically disqualify the applicant. The Z83 should be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed experience). Persons with
disabilities should feel free to apply for the post. The appointments are subject
to positive outcomes obtained from the State Security Agency (SSA) to the
following checks (security clearance (vetting), criminal clearance, credit
records, citizenship), verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA,
verification of previous experience from Employers and verification from the
Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC). Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day
of the interview following communication from Human Resources. Foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by SAQA.
It is the applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by
SAQA and to provide proof of such evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that
you submit your application before the closing date as no late applications will
be considered. If you apply for more than 1 post, submit separate applications
for each post that you apply for. Should you not be contacted within 3 months
of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your application to be
unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/89 : CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REF NO: G44/2025
Cluster: Hospital Management Services
Job Purpose: To plan, direct co-ordinate and manage the efficient and delivery
of clinical and administrative support services through working with the key
executive management team at the hospital within the legal and regulatory
framework, to represent the hospital authoritatively at provincial and public
forums, to provide strategic leadership to improve operational efficiency within
the health establishment to improve health outcomes.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (an all-inclusive MMS salary package)
CENTE : Umngeni Psychiatric Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : A degree/advanced diploma in a health related field, registration with relevant
professional council; Plus A degree/diploma in health management OR a
86
degree/advanced diploma in a management field. Plus At least 5 (five) years
management experience in the health sector. Experience as a health service
manager or significant experience in management in a health service
environment. Unendorsed valid Code B driver’s license (Code 08). NB: All
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit proof of work experience
endorsed and stamped by the employer/s prior to the date of the interview.
Competencies: Knowledge: Knowledge of relevant legislation such as National
Health Act, Public Finance Management Act (PMFA), Public Service Act and
related regulations and policies. Core Competencies: Strategic capability and
leadership, programme and project management, financial management
change management people management and empowerment. Progress
Competencies: Service delivery innovation, knowledge management, problem
solving and analysis, communication, client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Strategic Planning: Prepare a strategic plan for the Hospital to ensure that it is
in line with the 10-point plan, national, provincial, regional and district plans.
Financial Management: Maximise revenue through collection of all income due
to the Hospital, ensure that adequate policies, systems and procedure are in
place to enable prudent management of financial resources, planning of
financial resource mobilisation, monitoring and evaluation, asset and risk
management. Facility Management: Ensure business support and systems to
promote optimal management of the institution as well as optimal service
delivery, ensure that systems and procedures are in place to ensure planning
and timeous maintenance of facilities and equipment. Human Resource
Management: Develop, implement and maintain human resource management
policies and guidelines, systems and procedures that will ensure effective and
efficient utilisation of human resources, promote a safe and healthy working
environment through compliance with relevant legislation including occupation
health and safety committees. Ensure continuous development and training of
personnel and implement monitoring and evaluation of performance.
Procurement and Management of Equipment and Supplies: Implement a
procurement and provisioning system that is fair, transparent, competitive and
cost effective in terms of provincial delegated authority and in line with the
PFMA, ensure that goods and services are procured in a cost-effective timely
manner. Clinical and Corporate Governance: Oversee clinical governance to
ensure high standards of patient care, establish community networks and
report to the Hospital. Responsible for corporate governance inclusive of
infrastructure planning and maintenance as well as occupational health and
safety, manage the institution’s risk to ensure optimal achievement of health
outcomes.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs RT Dube Tel No: (033) 940 2499
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. “Applicants are
encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated
Online Application Centres (DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with
applying online or receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of
Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
All Applications Should Be Forwarded To: The Chief Director: Human Resource
Management Services KZN Department of Health Private Bag X9051
Pietermaritzburg, 3200 OR Hand Deliver to: 330 Langalibalele Street, Natalia
Building, Registry, Minus 1:1 North Tower. (Attention: Mr. A Memela)
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed Application for
Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed, initialled and dated.
Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be considered. All required
information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or disclose all
information will automatically disqualify the applicant. The Z83 should be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed experience). Persons with
disabilities should feel free to apply for the post. The appointments are subject
to positive outcomes obtained from the State Security Agency (SSA) to the
following checks (security clearance (vetting), criminal clearance, credit
records, citizenship), verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA,
verification of previous experience from Employers and verification from the
Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC). Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day
of the interview following communication from Human Resources. Foreign
87
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by SAQA.
It is the applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by
SAQA and to provide proof of such evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that
you submit your application before the closing date as no late applications will
be considered. If you apply for more than 1 post, submit separate applications
for each post that you apply for. Should you not be contacted within 3 months
of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your application to be
unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 202
POST 32/90 : MEDICAL OFFICERREF NO: NHI/01/2025 (X1 POST)
NHI required for PHC
Duration: Until 31 March 2026
SALARY : R639.00 rate per hour, inclusive of rural allowance. Maximum 3hoursTime
spent at the clinic Kilometers travelled Exclusion: Doctors working for the
Department of Health will not be considered for NHI posts. NB: Travel claim
capped at no more than 200km’s return per day and 2.0cc engine capacity.
CENTRE : Umzinyathi Health District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/ Senior Certificate (Grade 12) MBCHB Medical Degree plus.
Registration with the HPCSA as an Independent Medical Practitioner plus
current registration certificate with the HPCSA. 2 years medical experience
after Community Service. Valid driver’s license Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies Required: Sound knowledge, experience and clinic skills in
General Medicine, but especially in the following fields: Primary Health Care
Antenatal care Child Health and IMCI HIV Medicine TB Medicine Non-
communicable Diseases Emergency care Good communication and
leadership skills Knowledge and understanding of Batho Pele Principles and
Patients’ Rights Charter Ability to work as part of the PHC Team Sound Medical
ethics A diploma in HIV Care or Family Medicine would be an advantage.
DUTIES : Work as a consulting doctor in Primary Health Care Clinics in Umzinyathi
Health District. Provision of good quality, patient-centered and community-
orientated care for all patients. Promote and ensure good continuity of care
Examine, investigate, diagnose and oversee the treatment of patients,
including Chronic ailments, TB, patients for ARVs, sick children, antenatal
patients and mental health care users etc. Participate in and support CPD
(Continuous Professional Development) and training of PHC doctors and
nurses. Provide medical support to PHC clinical staff. Ensure that relevant
patient’s statics are maintained. Maintain accurate health records in
accordance with Legal Ethical considerations. Provide preventive health
interventions and measures to promote health. Handle disability grant
assessments. Perform duties as delegated by supervisor. The incumbent will
be accountable to the Clinic Operational Manager, Medical Manager and DCST
Family Physician, where applicable.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. DLS Zulu Tel No: (034) 299 9100
APPLICATIONS : Applications forwarded to or Hand Delivery: Umzinyathi Health District Office,
34 Wilson Street, Dundee, 3000. Private Bag X2052, Dundee, 3000.
Application may also be emailed to: Bongumusa.masondo@kznhealth.gov.za
or Mbalenhle.Ngwenya@kznhealth.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. M Ngwenya
NOTE : NB: Please note that due to financial constraints, there will be no payment of
S & T and resettlement claims
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025 at 16h00
DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY
The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Provincial Treasury is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer and preference will be given to previously disadvantaged groups.
APPLICATIONS : KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Treasury, P O Box 3613, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or
145 Chief Albert Luthuli Road, Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applications can also
be submitted via the e-services system, please assess this site
(eservices.gov.za).
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. N Cele
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
88
OTHER POSTS
POST 32/91 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BAS REF NO: KZNPT 25/38
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (a remuneration package)
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A - 3-year NQF Level 7 Qualification in Financial Management/ Financial
Accounting/ Management Accounting. Working knowledge of the various
government financial systems. Working knowledge of word processing,
spreadsheet, and presentation software packages. A minimum of 3 years’
experience in Public Finance/ Treasury / External Auditing or related field. A
valid driver’s license. People with disabilities without valid Driver’s license will
be assisted by the department to meet work related travel obligations. Skills,
Knowledge, And Competencies: Working knowledge of: Public Sector,
particularly Local government sphere Knowledge of: Public Sector Financial
Management systems and relevant legislations/ statutes including: the
constitution (as amended), Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA),
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury regulations, Municipal
Systems Act (and amendments), Municipal Structures Act, Municipal Property
Rates Act, Public Finance Service Regulatory Framework (PSRF), SCM
Regulations, PFMA Regulations i.r.o Supply Chain Management, Provincial
Procurement Act and Regulations, Provincial Internal Audit Act, PGDS
(Provincial Growth and Development Strategy) National Treasury Guideline
Documents & Circulars In Year monitoring and National Treasury Returns
Performance measurements Asset Management and Asset Transfer
Regulations Generally Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP) and any other
applicable accounting standard used by local government. Computer skills:
Proficiency in Spreadsheets (MS Excel), Word processing (MS Word),
PowerPoint and Use of internet, intranet, e-mail etc. Verbal communication and
presentation skills Good interpersonal relations Research and analysis Report
writing and general writing skills Problem-solving Monitoring and forecasting
Basic project management Budgeting and budgeting systems Performance
budgeting and strategic planning Change management Statistical and
quantitative analysis Financial Management Time Management (Ability to work
under pressure and meet tight deadlines) Source, extract, isolate and interpret
information on the state of municipal finances.
DUTIES : Provide technical support to delegated municipalities on the preparation of
(multi- year) budgets, the monthly outcomes of those budgets, the submission
of reports by municipalities in the province as required in terms of the MFMA
and the facilitation of financial management capacity building training
programmes. Prepare monthly, quarterly, biannual, annual consolidated
reports and “Ad hoc” reports in the prescribed format on the state of delegated
municipalities’ budgets and financial performance. Monitor monthly compliance
by delegated municipalities with respect to the MFMA, DoRA and other
applicable legislations and regulations and submit compliance reports to the
Municipal Finance Co-ordinator. Research, analyse, share updates, and
provide support to designated municipalities on MFMA reforms. Advise and
prepare report for the Municipal Finance Co-ordinator on various approvals/
extensions requested by designated municipalities in terms of the legislations,
as well as measures to be taken in the case of non-compliance. Provide ad
hoc support activities and assist on Treasury related projects.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. R. A. Bhagwandeen Tel No: (033) 897 4450
NOTE : The new Z83 form must be used effective 1st January 2021 and can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. As per the DPSA directive
applicants must fill in all sections of the z83, no incomplete Z83 forms will be
accepted. The Z83 must be accompanied by a comprehensive Curriculum
Vitae. Only Provisionally shortlisted applicants will be contacted and requested
to submit their supporting documents. The Department will also conduct
reference checks with HR of current /previous employer(s) beside the
references provided on CV. Candidates will be subjected security screening
and a technical assessment. Under no circumstances will be faxed, emailed
and late applications be accepted. The Department discourages applications
that are registered and will not be held responsible for applications sent via
registered mail which are not collected from the post office. It is the
responsibility of the applicant to ensure that the application reaches the
Department timeously. Should you not hear from the Department within 3
months of the closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful.
89
Regrettably, due to excessive budget cuts, the department is not in a position
to meet any travel and subsistence costs relating to recruitment processes, or
relocation and resettlement costs for successful candidates. Preferences:
African Males, African Females and people with disabilities who meet the
requirements.
POST 32/92 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING
REF NO: KZNPT 25/39
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (a remuneration package)
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A NQF 7 or higher in Financial Accounting or Financial Management. A
Minimum of 3 years administrative experience in a financial reporting/
accounting/ management environment. A valid Driver’s License. People with
disabilities without valid driver’s licenses will be assisted by the department to
meet work related travel obligations. Skills, Knowledge, and Competencies:
Understanding and working knowledge of GRAP accounting standards used
by local government. Standards for the Professional Practices of Internal
Auditing. General Accepted Accounting principles. Extensive working
knowledge of public sector, particularly local government sphere. Detailed
knowledge of public sector financial management systems and relevant
legislation/statutes. Constitution (as amended). PFMA and Treasury
Regulations. Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA). Municipal Systems
Act (and amendments). Municipal Structures Act. Local Government Transition
Act. PSRF (Public Service Regulatory Framework). PFMA Regulations in
respect of Supply Chain Management). Provincial Procurement Act and
Regulations. Provincial Internal Audit Act. PGDS (Provincial Growth and
Development Strategy). National Treasury guideline documents, regulations,
gazettes. Performance Measurement systems – best practice and guidelines.
Asset Management principles and respective legislation. Public finance
management principles and practice. National and Provincial Practices Notes.
Innovative thinking. Analytical thinking. Decisiveness. Leadership. Inter-
personal relations. Risk Management. Conflict Management. Problem-solving,
analytical and numeracy. Advanced Verbal communication and presentation.
Good interpersonal relations. Computer skills: Spreadsheets (MS Excel), word
processing (MS Word), PowerPoint Presentations, Internet. Research and
analysis. Report writing and general writing. Monitoring, follow up and
forecasting. Project management. Budgeting. Change management.
Analytical, Statistical and quantitative analysis. Financial management.
Planning. People management. Stakeholder/ relationship management.
Strategic Planning and management. Co-ordinating activities of different
service providers. Policy Analysis and Development. Driving. Self-disciplined
and able to work under pressure with minimum supervision.
DUTIES : Assist in the provision of support to municipalities regarding the compilation of
Annual Financial Statements (AFS) in compliance with Generally Recognized
Accounting Practice (GRAP) Standards. Assist in the provision of financial
management support to municipalities. Assist with audit readiness and review
for municipalities. Assist with consultative support and liaison services with
stakeholders. Comply with the implementation of policies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Chohan Tel No: (033) 897 4450
NOTE : The new Z83 form must be used effective 1st January 2021 and can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies.The Z83 must be accompanied by
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only Provisionally shortlisted applicants
will be contacted and requested to submit their supporting documents. The
Department will also conduct reference checks with HR of current /previous
employer(s) beside the references provided on CV. Candidates will be
subjected security screening and a technical assessment. Under no
circumstances will be faxed, emailed and late applications be accepted. The
Department discourages applications that are registered and will not be held
responsible for applications sent via registered mail which are not collected
from the post office. It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that the
application reaches the Department timeously. Should you not hear from the
Department within 3 months of the closing date, please regard your application
as unsuccessful. Regrettably, due to excessive budget cuts, the department is
not in a position to meet any travel and subsistence costs relating to recruitment
processes, or relocation and resettlement costs for successful candidates.
90
Preferences: African Males, African Females and people with disabilities who
meet the requirements.
91
ANNEXURE O
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions.
Candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
NOTE : NB: Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae. In order to alleviate the administration burden on HR
Sections as well as considering the cost for applicants, Departments are
encouraged to request certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents from shortlisted candidates only which may be submitted to HR on
or before the day of the interview following communication from the relevant
HR section of the Department. All posts, health/engineering posts that are
advertised within the Department professional registration will be required from
various statutory councils for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of
application documents should be submitted separately for every post that you
wish to apply for. Please ensure that you clearly state the full post description
and the relevant Post Reference Number on your application. No fax
applications will be considered. Applicants must ensure that they fully complete
and sign form Z83, even if they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/ or
unsigned applications will not be considered. If you are currently in service,
please indicate your PERSAL number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing
internal processes, the Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at
any time. The Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All
short-listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment.
If no response is received from the Mpumalanga Department of Health within
90 days after the closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume
that their application was not successful. Please quote the correct references
when applying and where possible the station / centre where the post is.
www.mpuhealth.gov.za Only Online Applications will be accepted. NB:
Candidates who are not contacted within 90 days after the closing date must
consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. Please Note the
Department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised
posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well served.
(People with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications)
OTHER POSTS
POST 32/93 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DEBT MANAGEMENT REF NO:
MPDOH/SEPT/25/365
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an undergraduate relevant qualification (NQF
Level 7) in Finance / Financial Management / Management Accounting as
recognized by SAQA. At least a minimum of three (3) years’ relevant
experience at management level (ASD). Proficiency in MS Excel, MS Word,
PowerPoint and MS Project. Generic Competencies: Planning and organising.
Problem solving and decision making. Coordination. Project management.
People management and empowerment. Team leadership. Client orientation
and customer focus. Diversity management. Communication (verbal and
written). Technical Competencies: Extensive knowledge in Financial
Management. Comprehensive knowledge and, the Division of Revenue Act
(DoRA), the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Policy Development.
Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : To administer the recovery of Departmental debt. To coordinate the write off
debts and training. Maintain a database of all debtors in the Department. To
administer the recovery of patient debtors from PEIS. To report on Accrued
92
Departmental Revenue and Receivable on quarterly and Annually Financial
Statements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 32/94 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
MPDOH/SEPT/25/366
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Nkangala District Office, Emalahleni (Witbank)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Human
Resource Management / Public Administration / Public Management as
recognized by SAQA. At least a minimum of three (3) years' relevant
experience of which three (3) years’ experience must be at supervisory /
managerial (Level 7/8) within Human Resource Management Environment.
Extensive knowledge of the PERSAL system and at least a minimum of four
(4) PERSAL courses is an inherent requirement. A good understanding and
functional knowledge of the relevant public service regulatory framework.
Knowledge of HR policies, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
Basic Condition of Employment Act, Employment Equity Act, Labour Relations
Act, Pension Case Management, COIDA, IOD, OHS Act, PFMA and
Establishment. Good interpersonal skills. Good written and verbal
communication skills. Ability to work under pressure. Sound communication
and interpersonal skills. Analytical skills on problem solving, decision making
and organizational skills. Computer literacy particularly MS, Excel, outlook &
Word. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Implement and maintain human resource administration practices. Facilitate
HR Personnel Provisioning matters. Co-ordinate and monitor appointment
process. Render administrative functions including the following: recruitment
and selection of staff. HR provisioning (recruitment and selection,
appointments, transfers, verification of qualifications, secretarial functions for
interviews, absorptions, probationary periods, etc). Manage conditions of
services and benefits: leave, leave gratuities, pensions, termination of services,
procedure on Incapacity leave and ill-health, housing allowance, overtime,
translations and writing reports etc.). Administer and monitor transfers and
adjustments of employees. Administer compliance of Internal Controls. Provide
support to the auditing process. Give input in the development of strategic,
business and procurement plans. Consolidate monthly and quarterly reports.
Ensure development of staff training needs. Facilitate financial and human
resources. Employees should be able to interpret and understand regulatory
framework relating to employee benefits including the OSD. Coordinate
performance management system, address human resource administration
enquiries to ensure the correct implementation of human resource
management practices, inform, guide, and advise the personnel on human
resource administration matters to enhance the correct implementation of
human resource administration practices/policies. Assist with preparation of
reports on human resource administration issues and statistics. Provide
support to Corporate Manager and the Chief Executive Officer.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 32/95 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO:
MPDOH/SEPT/25/367
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Amajuba Memorial Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public
Administration / Public Management as recognized by SAQA. At least a
minimum of three (3) years' relevant experience of which three (3) years’
experience must be at supervisory / managerial (Level 7/8) within Health
Environment. Knowledge of Human Resources and Administrative support
93
services. Sound financial management, facility management and supervision.
Valid driver’s licence. Willingness to work extra hours and be on standby when
need arises. Advanced computer literacy (MS Word, Excel). Good written and
communication skills. Good planning and organizational skills. Knowledge of
the PFMA / Labour Relations and other relevant prescripts. Good interpersonal,
problem – solving and dispute resolution, communication, analytical and writing
skills. Computer literacy. Valid driver’s license. Ability to work under pressure
with minimum supervision. Ability to conduct seminars or workshops and
presentation of budget. Strong leadership, managerial, organizational,
strategic, operational and contingency planning skills. Independent decision-
making, problem-solving and interpersonal skills. Knowledge of the Public
Service Regulations 2001, Public Service Act 1994, Employment Equity Act 55
of 1998, Labour Relations Act 66 of 1995 and other related prescripts of the
Department of Health.
DUTIES : Overall management of hospital administration include facility management
and security. Efficient and effective implement the Departmental strategic
planning of the corporate services. Management of personnel administration,
human resource development and training, disciplinary procedures, labour
relations, recruitment and selection processes and staff performance
assessment. Management of hospital fees, admissions and medical records.
Effectively manages all facility-based support services and oversees
maintenance requirements. Support the Medical Manager and management
team. Effectively and efficiently run the Corporate Services within the hospital
and give full support to other services and programmes within the Hospital.
Ensure high level of administration and improve cleanliness within the hospital
environment. Promotion of equity when it comes to resource distribution to
ensure that the targets are achieved. Effectively manage and develop human
resources, including sound employment relations. Support Employee
Assistance Programme, departmental health information and communication
technology functions in the hospital. Exercise and regulate, control over
institutional activities. Monitor implementation of the plans. Represent the
district / hospital in various forums at the district level and report to senior
structures of the department. Provide subordinates with the overall policy
framework and provide strategic leadership. Develop and maintain
constructive working relationships within administration and support and other
Professional structures. Monitor and ensure proper utilization of financial and
physical resources. Be responsible for the supervision and evaluation of the
staff performance. Manage the office budget. Coordinate proper staffing of
hospital.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 32/96 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT OFFICE OF THE HEAD: HEALTH REF NO:
MPDOH/SEPT/25/368
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus diploma in secretariat, Excellent MS Office
Skills, Knowledge of office administration. Experience in secretarial duties.
Good planning and organizational skills, good communication skills (verbal and
written) and the ability to communicate well with people at different levels and
from different backgrounds. Good telephone etiquette, computer literacy, basic
financial management and provisioning, high level of reliability. Must have
ability to work under pressure and must prepare to work long hours. Must be
able to type at least 40 words per minute.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial functions and support to the Head of Department daily.
Daily management of incoming and outgoing of internal correspondence. Daily
rendering of administrative support service and budget expenditure to the office
of Head of Department. Weekly provisioning of service to the office of head of
department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
94
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 32/97 : PRINCIPAL PERSONNEL OFFICER REF NO: MPDOH/SEPT/25/370 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Ermelo Regional Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
Themba Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus three (3) years’ experience in
Human Resource unit or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Human
Resource Management, Public Administration / Public Management as
recognised by SAQA. At least a minimum of three (3) PERSAL courses is an
inherent requirement. Extensive knowledge of PERSAL includes interpreting
PERSAL reports. A Good understanding and Functional knowledge of the
Public Service Act, Public Service regulations, Basic condition of employment
Act, Employment Equity Act, Computer literacy, Good interpersonal skills,
Good written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work under pressure.
Sound communication and interpersonal skills. Analytical skills on problem
solving, decision making and organizational skills. Computer literacy
particularly MS, Excel, outlook & Word. A valid driver’s licence will serve as an
added advantage.
DUTIES : Implement and maintain human resource administration practices. Render
administrative functions including the following: recruitment and selection of
staff. HR provisioning (recruitment and selection, appointments, transfers,
verification of qualifications, vetting of candidates, secretarial functions for
interviews, absorptions of staff, probationary periods, etc. and also responsible
for conditions of service and benefits: leave salaries, leave graduates,
pensions, termination of services, procedure on Incapacity leave and ill-health,
housing allowance, overtime, translations and writing reports etc.). Coordinate
the Performance management system, address human resource
administration enquiries to ensure the correct implementation of human
resource management practices, inform, guide and advise the staff on human
resource administration matters to enhance the correct implementation of
human resource administration practices/policies. Assist with preparation of
reports on human resource administration issues and statistics. Coordinate the
implementation of recruitment and selection process. Provide support to Sub-
district Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 32/98 : CHIEF PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATION CLERK: (WITBANK INTERNAL
MEDICINE) REF NO: MPDOH/SEPT/25/371
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Witbank TB Specialised Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent qualification plus three
(3) years relevant experience in Finance or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7)
in Finance / Logistic / Management Accounting / Financial Management as
recognized by SAQA. Knowledge skills and competencies: Knowledge of
legislative prescripts governing the public service financial administration.
Good knowledge of Treasury Regulations, Public Finance Management Act,
BAS and Logis. Good computer skills. Good communication skills (both verbal
and written). Good interpersonal relations. Self-driven, result orientated,
motivated, meet deadlines and acceptance of responsibility.
DUTIES : Manage the processing of requisition for goods and services. Manage the
safekeeping and distribution of goods. Manage the disposal of stock inventory.
Compile monthly SCM reports. Supervise employees within the section and
implementation of the PMDS. Serve as Secretary of the Hospital Finance
Committee. Responsible for the maintenance of the supplier database.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
95
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 32/99 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PATIENT ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
MPDOH/SEPT/25/372
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Tintswalo Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) years’ experience in Patient
Administration or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public Administration /
Public Management as recognised by SAQA or equivalent qualification.
Extensive knowledge of outpatient administration, reception in and help desk
functions. Extensive knowledge of PEIS, Billing system and UPFS user
guide/procedure book. Knowledge of Revenue policies and understanding of
sector financial administration and the provisions of PFMA. Knowledge of
relevant prescripts such as Government Gazette. Good communication skill,
report writing skills be computer literate and have ability to work under
pressure. Be available to work extra hours in a 24-hour shift environment and
be part of the hospital’s multidisciplinary committees. A valid driver licence will
serve as an added advantage.
DUTIES : Manage patient admin in 24 hours shift system, manage and sustain internal
control for collection of revenue, process debtors account, banking of revenue
collected, excising control over the maintenance and application of the filing
system for medical records, facilitate proper classification and re-classification
of patients, compile management, reports, manage archiving of patient
records, evaluation of staff in terms of the performance management system.
Prepare on / off duties for staff including ward clerk. Control overtime, stand-
by and Sunday/public holiday claims. Control queue Marshall, porter and
mortuary services. Handle enquiries relating to patient admin, assist with case
management and compile daily, weekly and monthly statistics and reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 32/100 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: REVENUE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
MPDOH/SEPT/25/373
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Bernice Samuel Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus three (3) years
relevant experience or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Finance / Financial
Management / Management Accounting as recognized by SAQA. Knowledge
and experience of provisioning administration, focus in the following areas:
LOGIS, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework (PPPFA), Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations and general knowledge of
Basic accounting system (BAS). Computer literacy. Sound interpersonal and
communication skills (written and verbal). Good management and supervisory
skills. Ability to work independently and tight deadlines. Valid driver’s licence
will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Collect revenue and bank it, Process debtors accounts. Prepare financial
reports, Develop strategic plans. Maintain and apply the filing system for
medical records Classify and reclassify patients, Compile management
reports, Evaluate staff performance
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 32/101 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: RISK AND SECURITY REF NO:
MPDOH/SEPT/25/374
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Mapulaneng Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
96
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus three (3) years
relevant experience or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Finance / Financial
Management / Management Accounting as recognized by SAQA. Knowledge
and experience of provisioning administration, focus in the following areas:
LOGIS, Procurement Policy Framework (PPPFA), Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations and general knowledge of
Basic accounting system (BAS). Computer literacy. Sound interpersonal and
communication skills (written and verbal). Good management and supervisory
skills. Ability to work independently and tight deadlines. Valid driver’s licence
will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Collect revenue and bank it, Process debtors accounts. Prepare financial
reports, Develop strategic plans. Maintain and apply the filing system for
medical records Classify and reclassify patients, Compile management
reports, Evaluate staff performance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
OFFICE OF THE PREMIER
The Office of the Premier is looking for a dynamic, innovative, experienced and suitable candidate to fill
the post of Head of Department: Social Development. The Office of the Premier is an equal opportunity
employer. It is our intention to promote representivity in respect of race, youth, gender and disability
through the filling of this position and that the candidature of persons, whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativeness, will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your applications, quoting the relevant reference number to:
The (A) Deputy Director-Internal HRM & D: Ms SS Monareng, Private Bag
X11291, Mbombela, 1200. Physical Address: Office of the Premier, Makhonjwa
Building, First floor, Government Boulevard, Riverside Park. Alternatively, e-
mail to: Otprecruitment@mpg.gov.za If no correspondence is received within
two months of the closing date, applicants must accept that their applications
have been unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
NOTE : Applications should be submitted in a duly completed recent Z83 form issued
by the Minister for Public Service and Administration, accompanied by a
detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV). Only short-listed candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of their qualifications. The minimum entry requirement
for this post, i.e. Senior Management Services (SMS) posts is a Pre-entry
Certificate that is obtainable through a course named Certificate for entry into
SMS – and the full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.The
appointment is subject to security clearance, security vetting, employment
reference checks, qualifications’ verification and signing of an employment
contract and a performance agreement. The successful candidate will be
required to disclose his/her financial interests.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 32/102 : HEAD OF DEPARTMENT (HOD): SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
HOD/SD/2025
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum (Level 15), (all-inclusive package). In addition, a 10%
Allowance is payable as Head of Department.
CENTRE : Bombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate postgraduate qualification (NQF level 8), as recognized by
SAQA. 10 years’ experience at a senior management level. Core and Process
Competencies include: Strategic Capability and Leadership, People
Management and Empowerment, Programme Management and
Empowerment, Financial Management, Change Management, Knowledge
Management, Service Delivery Innovations, Client Orientation and Customer
Focus and Communication. In addition, the incumbent will have to be sensitive
to the political and strategic objectives of government. The ideal candidate
should have the following qualities: Strong thinking capability. Ability to lead
and align teams of senior professionals and analysts. Strong research, sound
networking and interpersonal skills. Sound people management capabilities.
97
Good exposure to knowledge management ethos and practices. Proven record
of honesty and integrity as a professional/ manager. Good exposure to project
management practices and systems. Sensitivity to the political-administrative
interface, and appreciation of the policy support role within a politically led
executive decision-making process.
DUTIES : As an Accounting Officer for the Department of Social Development, the
incumbent will be responsible to perform the following functions: Ensuring the
efficient and effective management of Social Development matters Providing
strategic leadership to the delivery of social development programmes in the
province Managing the provision of social welfare programmes and community
development programmes Facilitating intergovernmental co-operation to
enable comprehensive delivery of social services Facilitating the provision of
business support services to the Social Development branches, including the
promotion of Batho Pele ethos and integrity management in the Department
Continuously monitoring and evaluating the impact of government services in
the social and poverty profile of the population in the province Managing the
provision of internal audit services Ensuring compliance with the provisions of
the Public Service Act and Regulations, collective agreements and other
statutory obligations by the staff of the Department Managing the financial,
human and physical resources of the Department efficiently and in accordance
with government policies. This is a contract post and the successful candidate
will be required to enter into a five-years’ employment contract and a
performance agreement with the Executive Authority. Short-listed candidates
will be subjected to a competency assessment and security clearance.
ENQUIRIES : should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: Internal HRM & D: Ms. SS
Monareng Tel No: (013) 766 2004.
98
ANNEXURE P
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 32/103 : CONTROL AGRICULTURAL RESOURCE TECHNICIAN: LAND USE
MANAGEMENT (ELSENBURG) REF NO: AGR 61/2025
SALARY : R582 444 - R686 091 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma (equivalent or higher qualification) in
Natural Resource Management / Environmental Management / Town Planning
/Agriculture / Civil Engineering or equivalent; A minimum of 6 years appropriate
post-qualification experience in Land Use Planning and Agricultural Resource
Management; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to
transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Theory,
design and implementation of agricultural resource management plans;
Assessment of change of land use applications; Legal compliance of the
National Environmental Management Act (NEMA), Conservation of Agricultural
Resources Act (CARA), Subdivision of Agricultural Land Act (SALA), National
Water Act (NWA);Technical/Scientific report writing; Technical design and
analysis knowledge; Research and development; Computer-aided engineering
applications; National Environmental Management Act (NEMA),Conservation
of Agricultural Resources Act (CARA), Subdivision of Agricultural Land Act
(SALA), National Water Act(NWA); Technical report writing; Technical
consulting; Project management; Technical knowledge; Research and
development; Legal compliance and policies; Agricultural Engineering
background and water run-off control management; Soil classification and
potential and impact on crop production; Town and Regional Planning;
Environmental legislation.
DUTIES : Manage and develop administrative policies, procedures, guidelines, standing
operating procedures, prescripts and regulations for the promotion and
preservation of agricultural land; Provide strategic advice and guidance on the
subdivision of Agricultural Land Act and other relevant legislation; Facilitate and
present of the Department and the sub-programme; Facilitate and coordinate
the development and revision of a strategic plan for agricultural land use in the
Western Cape Province Self-development’s following will be advantageous:
Extensive knowledge of Land Use Planning (Legislation, National, Provincial
and Municipal). Technical and scientific knowledge in drafting change of land
use applications and assessment thereof; Experience in the evaluation of the
Conservation of Agricultural Resources ACT, Spatial Development
Frameworks, Subdivision, Rezoning and Environmental Impact Assessments;
Knowledge of the Agricultural sector and Management of Natural Resources;
Computer literacy with experience in the use of Microsoft (Excel, Word,
PowerPoint), ArcView/GlS programs.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ashia Petersen Tel No: (021) 808 5010
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
99
POST 32/104 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COORDINATION SUPPORT REF NO: AGR
67/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year post school qualification at NQF level 6 (equivalent or
higher qualification) in Public Administration / Business Administration / Human
Resources or Organizational Development; A minimum of 3 years relevant
administrative experience. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Public
Service Regulatory Framework including the Public Service Act and
Regulations; BATHO PELE and other Transformational Frameworks and
Guidelines relating to the tasks mentioned in the Key Performance Areas;
Departmental mandates and its alignment to Provincial and National Outcomes
and Objectives; Ethics Promotion and Compliance management; Public
Finance Management Act; Skills in the following: Proven computer literacy;
Analytical and lateral thinking abilities; Communication (written and verbal)
skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate and facilitate inputs/comments on National and Provincial
imperatives and strategic documentation; Coordinate behavioural and service
delivery improvement projects and processes; Facilitate HR Planning and other
specific HR strategic and priority projects; Ethics Compliance Management.
The following will be advantageous: Ability to do research, to analyse and
drafting policies, plans, submissions and comments on documents of a
transversal nature; Ability to draft standard operating procedures and service
standards; as well as service delivery improvement plans and documents e.g.
the Departmental Service Delivery Charter and annual Citizens Report.
Knowledge of Ethics in the Public Service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Adéle Cloete Tel No: (021) 808 5045
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 32/105 : CENTRE MANAGER: AGRICULTURAL SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
(CLANWILLIAM) REF NO: AGR 08/2025 R1
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Administration, Skills Development, Training, human Resource
Development or an equivalent qualification; A minimum of 3 years supervisory
experience; 3 years’ experience in delivering, coordination and or management
of vocational programmes, project management and stakeholder relations; A
valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: Extended knowledge and understanding of the following:
Agricultural Industry and relevant practices / policies; Industry related training
programmes(formal and non-formal) and relevant study fields including social
and life skills related programmes; Relevant legislation and prescripts
regulating education, training and development; Human resource management
and development; Financial Management; Labour Relations practices/policies;
Relevant Education and Training strategies impacting on the Agricultural
Industry. Skills in the following: Communication skills(verbal/written);
Interpersonal skills; Analytical skills; Negotiation skills; Persuasive skills;
Planning and organisational skills; Motivation skills; Project management skills;
Financial management skills; Diversity management skills. Presentation skills;
Facilitation skills; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Facility Management; Coordination and Facilitation of Training Programmes;
Market the Training Centre and Stakeholder Relations; Financial Management;
Coordination and Facilitation of Administration & Support Services at the
Centre.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Gertrude Jacobs Tel No: (021) 808 7000
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
100
POST 32/106 : CANDIDATE SCIENTIFIC TECHNICIAN: CROPPING SYSTEMS–
LANGGEWENS RESEARCH FARM, MOORREESBURG REF NO: AGR
63/2025
(3-Year Contract Position)
SALARY : R338 748 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma/B-Degree or higher qualification in
Agronomy/CropScience or equivalent qualification; Registration with
SACNASP as a Candidate Natural Scientist in the appropriate scientific field,
is compulsory within 6 calendar months after appointment; A valid driving
license (code B). Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Small grain
cropping systems (including crops, cultivation, plant-soil water interaction);
Conservation and regenerative agriculture; Cash crops and pastures used in
the Western Cape; Use, settings, calibration and basic maintenance of
appropriate equipment and implements; Technical scientific inputs needed for
research projects; Major crops in the Western Cape Technical planning skills;
Technical management skills; Communication skills (written and verbal);
Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Ability to
work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Render basic technical assistance in research projects for the development of
more efficient farming practices; Administer the creation/adaptation/
maintenance of the necessary infrastructure in accordance with the project
plan; Perform all administrative and related functions which would include,
Contributing to compilation of reports as required; Control assets allocated to
projects; Monitor expenditure; Supervise personnel; Comply with the Public
Service prescripts; Render basic advice and disseminate technical information
to applicable role players throughline alia: Keep up to date with regard to the
applicable prescripts, policies, procedures, technologies and new
developments in the subject field. Exposure to the research environment will
advantageous.
ENQUIRIES : Prof J Strauss Tel No: (021) 808 5479
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 32/107 : CANDIDATE SCIENTIFIC TECHNICIAN: CROPPING SYSTEMS –
TYGERHOEK RESEARCH FARM, RIVIERSONDEREND REF NO: AGR
64/2025
(3-Year Contract Position)
SALARY : R338 748 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma/B-Degree or higher qualification in
Agronomy/CropScience or equivalent qualification; Registration with
SACNASP as a Candidate Natural Scientist in the appropriate scientific field,
is compulsory within 6 calendar months after appointment; A valid driving
license (code B).Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Small grain
cropping systems (including crops, cultivation, plant-soil water interaction);
Conservation and regenerative agriculture; Cash crops and pastures used in
the Western Cape; Use, settings, calibration and basic maintenance of
appropriate equipment and implements; Technical scientific inputs needed for
research projects; Major crops in the Western Cape Technical planning skills;
Technical management skills; Communication skills (written and verbal);
Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Ability to
work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Render basic technical assistance in research projects for the development of
more efficient farming practices; Administer the creation/adaptation/
maintenance of the necessary infrastructure in accordance with the project
plan; Perform all administrative and related functions which would include,
Contributing to compilation of reports as required; Control assets allocated to
projects; Monitor expenditure; Supervise personnel; Comply with the Public
Service prescripts; Render basic advice and disseminate technical information
to applicable role players throughline alia: Keep up to date with regard to the
applicable prescripts, policies, procedures, technologies and new
developments in the subject field. Exposure to the research environment will
be advantageous.
101
ENQUIRIES : Prof J Strauss Tel No: (021) 808 5479
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 32/108 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATION CLERK: GENERIC OFFICE EQUIPMENT
ADMINISTRATION (ELSENBURG) REF NO: AGR 68/2025
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification); A minimum of 3 years
relevant experience; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to
transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Clerical
duties; Understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public
Service; Working procedures in terms of the working environment; Legal
compliance. Skills in the following: Computer literacy in MS Office Package
(Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint) and internet proficiency; Good
communication skills (written and verbal); Strong leadership abilities and
assertiveness; Technical report writing skills; Supervisory and management
skills; Decision-making, problem-solving and analysis skills; Planning and
organising skills; Presentation skills; Financial management skills; Basic
negotiation skills; Ability to adapt to the working requirements and environment;
Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Manage all aspects of the VOIP telecommunication system; Manage all
aspects of official cell phones; Manage all aspects of photocopiers and other
labour-saving devices; Supervise and render general clerical services related
to the listed functions; Supervise and provide Supply Chain clerical support
services for the sub-directorate; Supervise and provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the sub-directorate; Supervise
and provide financial administration support services in the sub-directorate
Perform Human Resource Management. The following will be advantageous:
Supervision of human resources/staff; Budget monitoring and control
experience.
ENQUIRIES : Viven Govender Tel No: (021) 808 5422
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 32/109 : ADMIN OFFICER: CORPORATE SERVICE RELATIONS MANAGEMENT
REF NO: AGR 69/2025
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3 year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1 year relevant experience. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: The business and organisational structure of the
Department; Departmental operational management systems and procedures;
Corporate governance requirements, with particular reference to prescribed
plans and committees (in as far as they relate to the work of the CSC);
Provincial policies, service level agreement and service schedules in terms of
which the working relationship with the SC is managed; Business of the CSC;
Human resources management systems. Skills in the following: Computer
literacy (E-mail, internet, MS Office); Communication skills (written and verbal);
Basic research; Conceptual, interpretative and formulation skills; Analytical
thinking; Basic statistical and numeracy skills; Networking; Interpersonal skills;
Planning and organizing; Problem solving; Ability to work independently and as
part of a team; A valid code B driving licence.
DUTIES : Assist in the coordination of the appointment of members of prescribed
departmental committees, the nomination of statutory appointments, as well as
the nomination of departmental representatives to transversal forums; Assist in
the provision of logistical arrangements for prescribed departmental
committees; Distribute general CSC communications/information as required
and keep record of incoming CSC-correspondence; Assist in the collation of
consolidated departmental input/reports to the CSC as required; Perform basic
statistical analysis; Perform basic calculations pertaining to salaries and
pensions; Keep record of outgoing CSC-correspondence; Assist in the
102
facilitation of follow-up actions with the CSC as required; Provide procedural
and policy advice to departmental staff pertaining to the functions of the CSC;
Function as supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JH Jordaan Tel No: (021) 808 5349
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 32/110 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: CORPORATE SERVICES RELATIONS
MANAGEMENT (ELSENBURG) REF NO: AGR 66/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies: A good
understanding of the following: Organisational structure of the Department;
Departmental procedures; Corporate governance requirements, with particular
reference to prescribed plans and committees (in as far as they relate to the
work of the CSC); Provincial policies, service level agreement and service
schedules in terms of which the working relationship with the CSC is managed.
A working knowledge of the business of the CSC. Skills in the following:
Computer literacy (E-mail, internet, MS Office); Communication skills (written
and verbal); Interpretive and formulation skills; Analytical thinking; Basic
statistical and numeracy skills; Networking; Interpersonal skills; Planning and
organizing; Problem solving; Ability to work independently and as part of a
team; A valid driving licence (Code B).
DUTIES : Provide procedural and basic policy advice to internal clients; Provide an office
administration service; Provide logistical support; Provide a typing service;
Provide a reception service. The following will be advantageous: Relevant
tertiary qualification and relevant experience.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JH Jordaan Tel No: (021) 808 5349
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 32/111 : TRADESMAN AID: METAL WORKSHOP (ELSENBURG) REF NO: AGR
65/2025
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 2 (Grade 10 or equivalent qualification); A minimum of 6-month
trade-related experience. Competencies: Knowledge and skills working with
various metal workshop tools and equipment; Knowledge and skills handling
metal workshop related materials; Knowledge and skills in communication and
listening.
DUTIES : Perform activities in respect to metal work; Perform general activities in
cleaning and maintenance of facilities and equipment. The following will be
advantageous: Appropriate experience; Experience in maintenance and
repairs of machinery and equipment; Experience in maintenance and repairs
to general farm infrastructure; Experience in using electrical and hand tools.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MJ Mothiba Tel No: (021) 808 5176
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful.
103
POST 32/112 : MESSENGER: ANIMAL HEALTH (OUDTSHOORN) REF NO: AGR 62/2025
SALARY : R138 486 - R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 2 (Grade 10 or equivalent qualification). Competencies: A good
understanding of the Occupational Health and Safety Act and relevant
regulations; Skills needed: Communication (written and verbal) and Ability to
work independently and as part of team; A valid (Code B or higher) driving
license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
DUTIES : General Messenger duties for the office; Receive and distribution of
goods/stock; Packaging of sending samples; Assist during procedures
performed in laboratory; Maintenance of Oudtshoorn State Vet office grounds.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Fox Tel No: (044) 203 9443
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful.
DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL AFFAIRS AND SPORT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 32/113 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ARTS AN DCULTURE REF NO: CAS 38/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years middle management experience.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Arts and culture sector; legislation,
regulatory frameworks, policies and best practices that have a bearing on the
line functions; Project management; procurement and tendering processes;
Public service procedures, processes and systems; Public entity procedures,
processes and systems; Public Finance Management Act, National and
Provincial Treasury Regulations, other financial policies, prescripts, directives
and collective agreements; Labour Relations legislation and regulations;
performance management. Skills needed: Computer literacy in MS Office
Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint etc); Project Management; Accounting
Finance and Audit; Operational Planning; Transformational leadership;
Networking; Written and verbal communication skills.
104
DUTIES : Manage the development and promotion of arts and culture; Manage cultural
support services inclusive of Western Cape Cultural Commission (WCCC);
Manage human resources; Financial and procurement management; Cultural
Facilities management; It will be advantageous to have a valid code B (or
higher) driving license. Note: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities
but have access to transport may also apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Mchunu Tel No: (021) 483 9671
POST 32/114 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LOGISTICS, CONTRACT AND PERFORMANCE
MANAGEMENT REF NO: CAS 40/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification); A minimum
of 3 years supervisory level experience in Supply Chain or Logistics
Management. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Logistic Information
System (LOGIS); Policy development; Financial norms and standards (Public
Finance Management Act-PFMA; National Treasury regulations (NTR's),
Provincial Treasury Directives/Instructions-PTI's); General Conditions of the
Contract; Contract Management Guidelines; Preferential Procurement Policy
Framework Act and PPPFA Regulations. BEE; Procurement activities;
Procurement policies/procedures/contract management; Document
management Enterprise Content Management (ECM), inclusive of registry
services and policy and procedures governing these functions. Skills needed:
Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint etc); Ability
to work independently and as part of a team; Communication skill (written and
verbal); Report writing.
DUTIES : Managing the Logistics Management function; Render support services during
the creation and processing of orders for goods and services; Develop and
monitor processes to ensure proper Performance and Contract Administration;
Provide additional support to the Division Demand and Acquisition
Management Unit; Provide support to line function; People Management; It will
be advantageous to have experience in Contracts and Performance
Management; A valid driving license ( Code B or higher). Note: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities but have reasonable access to transport
may also apply.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Malgas Tel No: (021) 483 8032
POST 32/115 : CULTURAL OFFICER: ARTS, CULTURE AND LANGUAGE REF NO: CAS
39/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Arts and Culture. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
White Paper on Arts, Culture and Heritage; Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA); Project Management; Event Management; It will be advantageous to
have a valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. Skills needed: Written and
verbal communication; Problem solving; Computer literacy in MS Office
Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint etc); Ability to work independently and as
part of a team; Planning and organizational; Networking.
DUTIES : Program Development and Implementation; Event Management; Partner and
Stakeholder management; Community Engagement; Budget Management;
Financial Management; Reporting and Evaluation; It will be advantageous to
have experience in the following: Relevant experience in the arts and culture
field; Relevant experience in Arts and Culture/Creative Industries/Cultural
development and promotion; Management and execution of arts programmes.
NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Masemola at William.Masemola@westerncape.gov.za
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
105
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates must make themselves available to be interviewed at
a date, time and place as decided by the selection panel. Please ensure that
you submit your application on or before the closing date as no late applications
will be considered. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Kindly note that technical support is only available
from Monday to Friday from 8:00 to 16.00. Should you experience any
difficulties with your online application you may contact the helpline at 0861
370 214. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that
intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will
be communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive
on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS Competency Assessment tools. The nominated
candidate will be required to complete the Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme before they may be appointed into this post. The purpose of the
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, which is a public service specific
training programme applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is
to ensure that potential SMS members have a background on processes and
procedures linked to the SMS. The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme
is 120 notional hours (15 days). Full details may be sourced by the following
link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-preentryprogramme/
Furthermore, thanks to the huge public interest we receive many applications
for our positions, and as such will not be able to respond personally to all
applications. Therefore, should you not hear from us within 10 weeks from
close of advert please consider your application unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 32/116 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: STRATEGIC ECONOMIC
ACCELERATORS AND DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DEDAT 44/2025
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum (Level 15), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant undergraduate NQF level 8 or higher recognised by SAQA; A
minimum of 8 years’ relevant experience at senior managerial level.
Competencies: Sector and catalytic infrastructure implementation; Linkages
with economic sector engagement for effective and collaborative public/private
(business) interaction; Enabling environment requirements for an effective
knowledge economy, including innovation and digital economy; Global green
economy and its relevance for applicants to create jobs; South African and
global businesses, economic landscapes; Excellent communication skills
(written and verbal); Demonstratable leadership and strategic planning skills;
Ability to lead and build dynamic, professional project management teams;
Ability to engage effectively at senior executive levels.
DUTIES : Provide leadership to strategically and programmatically drive, develop,
implement and maintain key catalytic infrastructure interventions; Oversee the
economic, research, policy and planning environment to shape provincial
economic strategy; Strategically drive and implement an enabling environment
to accelerate the digital economy, technology and innovation; Facilitate the
creation of opportunities to influence economic growth within sectors and
industries; Strategically develop, implement and coordinate the transformation
of the Western Cape economy towards green economic growth; People and
Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Jo-Ann Johnston Tel No: (021) 483-4165
POST 32/117 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: ECONOMIC PLANNING, INFRASTRUCTURE AND
COORDINATION REF NO: DEDAT 48/2025
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : NQF 7 qualification in Economics or Built Environment or Development
Studies, as recognised by SAQA; 5 years senior management experience.
Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership; Project and Programme
106
Management; Change Management; People Management and Empowerment;
Financial Management.
DUTIES : Strategically & programmatically drive, develop, implement, maintain and
monitor key catalytic infrastructure interventions & its sub-projects in order to
positively transform the economy’s competitiveness & improve job creation;
Strategic management of the programme; People and financial management
of the programme resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ilse van Schalkwyk Tel No: (021) 483 9494
POST 32/118 : DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL SERVICES AND ICT SECTOR REF NO: DEDAT
45/2025
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification at NQF level 7 in Economics or Financial
Management or Investment Finance recognised by SAQA; 5 years’
middle/senior management experience; 5 years’ working in a services sector
environment or programme. Competencies: Strategic Capability and
Leadership; Project and Programme Management; Change Management;
People Management and Empowerment; Financial Management.
DUTIES : Contribute to the development of and support services sector strategies,
policies and the implementation thereof; Build and maintain networks with key
industry stakeholders and ensure horizontal and vertical alignment within the
services sector; Develop, support and implement the promotion of the sector
leading to trade and investment opportunities and destination marketing.
Identify sector specific blockages and participate in the unlocking of
opportunities in order to achieve strategic outcomes; Oversee, co-develop and
support programmes to improve sector competitiveness; Management of the
Directorate People and Financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ilse van Schalkwyk Tel No: (021) 483 9494
OTHER POSTS
POST 32/119 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DEDAT
02/2025 R1
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in
Economics or related field; A minimum of 3 years experience in enterprise
development and administration or similar environment. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Understanding of business analysis and financial
interpretation as a tool for SMME development; Government processes and
procedures; Finance products and incentives in both the public and private;
Experience in project management; Skills needed: Computer Literacy;
Communication skills (written and verbal); Problem solving; Network and
building bonds; Impact and influence; A valid driving licence (Code B or higher).
NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
DUTIES : Support the development of initiatives to enable small business access to non-
financial and financial support; Support the implementation of initiatives to
provide market access opportunities; Support the implementation of initiatives
to enhance entrepreneurship (social and business) ; Support the development
of initiatives to improve the enable environment for business through
government interaction; Support the development of initiatives to identity gaps
and /or blockages for service delivery improvement and refer to the relevant
components; Facilitate building and strengthening partnerships to provide
small businesses with business development services( e.g.: leveraging of
funding and supplier development). This will be advantageous: A postgraduate
qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Davids Tel No: (021) 483 9112
POST 32/120 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MANUFACTURING REF NO: DEDAT 47/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
107
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year post school qualification (equivalent or higher) in
economics, finance or commerce; A minimum of 3 years relevant administrative
and project management experience; A valid driving licence (Code B or higher).
NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of
the following: HRM processes and labour relations; Public Financial
Management Act; Project Management; Stakeholder management; Monitoring
and evaluation systems. Skills in the following: Computer literacy in MS Office
Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Communication skills (written and verbal);
Problem-solving and decision-making; Applied strategic and creative thinking;
Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Facilitate the implementation of sector strategies, policies, programmes and
projects; Maintain networks with key stakeholders and support value chain
alignment within the sectors; Support and implement the market growth and
promotion of the prioritised sectors; Participate in the unlocking of opportunities
to achieve strategic outcomes; Provide administrative services to support
programmes, the directorate and chief directorate; Research and report writing
The following will be advantageous: An appropriate undergraduate degree at
NQF 7 or higher in economic, finance or commerce as recognised by SAQA;
Relevant experience in the manufacturing sector or sector development.
ENQUIRIES : Marthinus van Wyk Tel No: (021) 483-3106
POST 32/121 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT OFFICER: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF
NO: DEDAT 46/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R 382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1 year asset management and administrative
experience. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: PFMA; Supply Chain
Management; Procurement Prescripts; LOGIS system; Skills needed: Proven
Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint);
Communication (written and verbal); Excellent report writing, Problem Solving;
Analytical; Organising and Planning; Ability to work independently and as part
of a team.
DUTIES : Conduct the asset register maintenance safeguarding of assets and asset
verification; Execute administration and governance on the disposal of assets;
Render a secretariat service; Preform human resources management; Provide
implementation of the Asset Management Framework.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Trevor Malgas Tel No: (021) 483 9148
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS AND DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
108
OTHER POSTS
POST 32/122 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER: POLLUTION MONITORING AND
INFORMATION MANAGMENT REF NO: EADP 20/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R612 480 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning, Western
Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 4-year B-Degree/Honours (equivalent or higher qualification) in
natural or physical sciences, environmental management/sciences or
engineering field or an equivalent qualification; A minimum of 6 years relevant
environmental management experience; A valid (Code B or higher) driving
license. Competencies: Knowledge and experience in the following:
Environmental Management (that includes integrated environmental
management; (Pollution management) and application of environmental
legislation; Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement, with respect to statutory
obligations (e.g. NEMA); Project planning, implementation and management,
including financial management; Interpretation of water quality data and
pollution information; Chemicals management and international conventions;
Research, data analysis, interpretation and technical/scientific report writing;
Analyse, interpret and respond to scientific, technical reports and policy and
legislation Skills needed: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word,
Excel, PowerPoint etc); Ability to work independently and as part of a team;
Communication (verbal and written); General office and administration; Human
Resource Management; Financial Management (budgeting and expenditure
control; Supply chain management processes); Stakeholder engagement;
Problem-solving.
DUTIES : Manage and provide specialist and technical comment, advice and guidance
on environmental technical reports (including impact assessment reports) to
organs of state and other stakeholders regarding pollution and chemicals
management; Develop, implement and manage water quality/pollution and
chemicals monitoring and information management projects; Actively engage,
support and provide input into transversal initiatives and forums relevant to
pollution and chemicals management including implementation of the Western
Cape Sustainable Water Protection Plan; Manage financial and human
resources within the sub-directorate, including general office management and
administration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Davis-Wolmarans Tel No: (021) 483 4656
POST 32/123 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER (PRODUCTION LEVEL): AIR QUALITY
MONITORING REF NO: EADP 19/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade A: R343 842 - R380 145 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade B: R399 999 - R442 389 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade C: R464 418 - R586 665 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning, Western
Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher) in
Natural/ Physical/ Environmental Sciences or Engineering or equivalent
qualification; A valid driving licence (Code B). Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Environmental management processes and/or air quality
management systems, e.g., air quality monitoring, etc; Environmental
legislation (NEMA and SEMAs) and policies, particularly relating to
environmental management and / or air quality management. Skills needed:
Report writing skills, including the ability to analyse, interpret and respond to
scientific and technical reports; Interpretation of relevant legislation (NEMA,
SEMAs); Policy analysis, interpretation and development skills; Computer
literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint etc.); Communication
(written and verbal) and Report writing skills; It will be advantageous to have
Relevant in-service training experience (e.g. Pollution management, air quality
management, climate change, air quality monitoring, integrated environmental
management, etc.)
DUTIES : Contribute towards the development and administration of Air Quality
Management systems and policies; Provide technical inputs and subject
specific comment on air quality planning and information management
services(e.g. State of Air Quality Reports etc.); Contribute towards the
development and implementation of specific projects (e.g. Air quality regulatory
109
services, air quality information management, air quality management
planning, etc.); Provide support with regards to compliance monitoring and
enforcement with respect to statutory obligations (NEMA and NEM: AQA);
Provide assistance with administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Bhawoodien Parker Tel No: (021) 483 8368
/Bhawoodien.Parker@westerncape.gov.za
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference.
OTHER POSTS
POST 32/124 : HEAD CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1 (PSYCHIATRY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R2 084 754 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Experience:
A minimum of 3 year’s appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA as a Specialist Psychiatry. Inherent requirements
of the job: Valid Code EB drivers’ licence. After hour cover of Psychiatry
Department. Be able to work commuted overtime, limited to 12 hours per week,
if operational requirements so demand. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Must have strong record of clinical expertise and clinical governance, research
and experience of training and teaching at both under and post graduate levels.
Strong people management skills, analytical thinking, problem-solving,
decision-making and ability to work in a multi-disciplinary team. Ability to deal
with problems of a generalist nature.
DUTIES : Ensure an efficient and cost-effective Psychiatry service of high quality, with a
patient- centered approach, responsive to the mental health needs and burden
of disease within the Worcester service platform. Promote quality of care in the
Psychiatry department through the development and implementation of
protocols and guidelines aligned with the clinical governance framework of the
Department of Health, aiming to improve patient outcomes and safety. Provide
support to major referral centers in the drainage area of Worcester Hospital
through outreach services, capacity building, and strengthening competencies
within the District Health System to manage mental health conditions
effectively and contribute to overall community wellness. Fulfil the
responsibilities of Functional Business Unit (FBU) Manager for Psychiatry,
encompassing financial and human resource management, quality assurance,
information management, and active participation as a member of the facility’s
executive management team. Ensure compliance with the requirements of the
Office of Health Standards Compliance (OHSC). Foster a learning environment
for junior staff and students at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels,
contributing to skills development and professional growth. Conduct clinical
audits and research within the Psychiatry department to maintain up-to-date
clinical practices and support continuous improvement in service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Matthew Tel No: (023) 348-1113
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test and/or competency assessment.
The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within Worcester
Regional Hospital for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
110
POST 32/125 : HEAD CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1 (RADIOLOGY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R2 084 754 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Radiology. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Radiology. Experience:
A minimum of 3 year’s appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA as a Specialist in Radiology. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid Code B drivers’ licence. Be able to work
commuted overtime, limited to 12 hours, if operational requirements so
demand. Provide governance for the Radiology Services for Garden Route and
Central Karoo (Rural East Ecosystem). Be able to work Flexible hours as the
clinical workload demands. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Must have a
strong record of clinical expertise and clinical governance, including experience
with training and teaching at both under and post graduate levels and across
disciplines. Strong people management skills, analytical thinking, problem-
solving, decision- making and ability to work in a multi-disciplinary team.
Financial and Resource Management. Experience in Management or
Leadership.
DUTIES : Manage overall performance of a 24/7 Radiology service at the Regional
Hospital, in an ecosystem approach. Provide leadership and ensure
appropriate clinical governance systems are in place for the Garden Route and
Central Karoo District (Rural East Ecosystem). Corporate governance of the
Radiology Functional Business Unit which includes financial and human
resource management. Co-operation and liaison with other Departments within
the hospital and across the Rural East Ecosystem. Function within the
Executive Management Team and apply knowledge of public health
administration and management. Supervise and train junior and senior staff,
as well as teaching of undergraduates and postgraduates as part of a
multidisciplinary team.
ENQUIRIES : Dr T Koen Tel No: (044) 802-4535
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical and/or competency test. The pool
of applications will be considered for vacancies within George Regional
Hospital, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/126 : SENIOR REGISTRAR (HEPATOLOGY)
(3-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 341 855 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist. Registration with Professional council: Registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Specialist. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Completion
of the logbook of Gastrointestinal and Hepatology technical procedures.
Communication including report generation, letter writing, consultation.
Effective and efficient administration. Facilitation of management system.
MMED and FCP (SA) Qualification.
DUTIES : Clinical Service Provision. Participate in the teaching programmes of the
Department at a level appropriate to training and experience. Presentations at
conferences. Initiate and complete appropriate research project for MPhil in
Advanced Hepatology and Liver Transplantation. Undertake and complete
College of Medicine examination for the Certificate Hepatology (SA). Effective
and efficient administration of clinical records and patient reports. Teaching and
Training/Supervision of Junior Staff. Clinical Governance and Administration.
111
Assessment, diagnosis and treatment of inpatients and outpatients with acute
and chronic gastrointestinal diseases, including core endoscopy skills.
Assessment, diagnosis and treatment of inpatients and outpatients with acute
and chronic liver diseases as well as liver transplant patients at a level
appropriate for training and experience.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Sonderup Tel No: (021) 404-6422 or mark.sonderup@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Please ensure
that you attach an updated CV. Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the
department’s ecosystem framing of its training platform. Accordingly, all
registrar appointments may be called upon to work across this platform and
may include rotations at Metro West and Rural East hospitals. This includes
Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, New Somerset Hospital,
Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and George Provincial
Hospital. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension benefits
as Senior Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Medical Sub-
Specialist positions. The Department of Health is guided by the principles of
Employment Equity. Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an
indication in this regard will be appreciated. Specific Senior Registrar posts
within the Department will be identified as part of the Affirmative Action
programme to create a representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable
procedures. Preference will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with
a valid identity document. Senior Registrars will be required to register as post-
graduates with Stellenbosch University/ University of Cape Town according to
the yearbook and guidelines. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of
the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”. Appointment as
Senior Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 3 years. Senior
Registrars will function across health facilities, as per an agreed programme.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Senior Registrar
will be on contract.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/127 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL INTERNAL MEDICINE)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley and Khayelitsha District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Internal Medicine. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Grade 3: A minimum
of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with
the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine.
Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): FCP(SA) or Equivalent qualification. Ability
to work and make clinical decisions independently. Ability to manage a broad
spectrum of medical problems. Good organizational skills and ability to perform
tasks efficiently. Ability to provide leadership and management within the
112
Department of Medicine. Excellent individual coping and interpersonal skills
and ability to perform well within a multidisciplinary team context. Enthusiasm
to attend and present training and educational courses to broaden clinical and
managerial skills and knowledge. Ability to communicate effectively.
DUTIES : To deliver comprehensive senior clinical services in General Internal Medicine
to patients in a Central or Regional or District Hospital within the Area of Metro
East with the aim of supplying consistently safe, cost effective, high quality
acute and chronic specialist care to the community. To provide management
support within the Division of General Internal Medicine at Tygerberg Academic
Hospital as well as the Metro East Geographic Service Area and to report
effectively to the authorities for the sake of maintaining and improving services.
To deliver teaching and training to undergraduate and postgraduate students
as well as junior professionals. To initiate or participate in clinical research that
benefits the service and organisation.
ENQUIRIES : Dr N Schrueder Tel No: (021) 938-5732
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration as
Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for a change in registration status). The successful
candidate will be joint appointed to the Department of Medicine at Stellenbosch
University.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/128 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : Vredenburg Hospital, Saldanha Bay Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with Professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform community
service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years ‘appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-qualified employees A minimum of 6
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-qualified employees A minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s license and willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good interpersonal, communication and computer skills. Sound knowledge of
basic surgical and anesthetic procedures.
DUTIES : Ensure an effective and appropriate health service for all patients at a District
Level Hospital. Assist the Clinical Manager with effective clinical administration
and including all completion of administrative of forensic tasks (J88 / Rape kits
/ DUI). Provide comprehensive clinical services in the wards, Casualty/OPD,
113
theatre and clinics. Supervise and assist with the training of under- and
postgraduate medical personnel and continuous updating of own knowledge
and skills. Assist Primary Health Care with Community Orientated Primary
Care (COPC) and partake in compulsory commuted overtime services on a
rotational basis.
ENQUIRIES : Dr TV Zimri Tel No: (022) 709-7208
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/129 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (PAEDIATRICS) (VARIOUS INSTITUTIONS) (X10
POSTS)
(4 Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with Professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirements of the job:
Commuted overtime is compulsory. Emergency and after hour call cover. Each
Registrar will be appointed in a specific training hospital but may be required
to work across the distributed training platform. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Experience in general paediatrics and/or neonatology.
Ability to function independently at a level of general practitioner. Diploma in
Child Health (or equivalent). FC Paed part 1. Good communication skills.
DUTIES : To render a comprehensive clinical service in Paediatrics and Neonatology
covering day-time work and after-hours. To provide inpatient and/or outpatient
care, including clinical teaching, administration, management and research.
ENQUIRIES : Dr LG Lloyd Tel No: (021) 938-9842
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Appointment
as Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 4 years. It may become
necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during their
period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to any
decision being implemented. Registrars will function across health facilities, as
per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a student be
discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Registrar also discontinues.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be
on contract. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension
benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions.
-The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this
regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will
be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with Stelllenbosch
University according to the yearbook and guidelines. “Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
114
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for a change in
registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/130 : DENTIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R972 612 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : PHC Support & Outreach George (Stationed at Garden Route District Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Dentist. Registration with Professional council: Registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Dentist. Experience: Grade
1: None after registration as Dentist with the HPCSA in respect of SA-qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Dentist with a
recognized foreign health professional council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service, as
necessary in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of 7 years’ appropriate
experience as Dentist after registration with the HPCSA as a Dentist in respect
of SA-qualified employees. Minimum of 8 years’ relevant experience after
registration as Dentist with a recognized foreign health professional council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
community service, as necessary in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 12
years’ appropriate experience as Dentist after registration with the HPCSA as
a Dentist in respect of SA-qualified employees. Minimum of 13 years’ relevant
experience after registration as Dentist with a recognized foreign health
professional council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform community service, as necessary in South Africa. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s license, preferably Code C.
Willingness to travel up to 400km per day. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Appropriate management experience at a health facility. Ability to work in a
team. Planning and organisational skill. Advanced problem-solving skills.
Sound verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Clinical service delivery: PHC- Preventative planning and carrying out dental
health programs. Clinical Service Delivery: Outreaches and off sites and be
able to implement effective dental Health programs in a cost-effective manner.
Clinical support to the Central Karoo dentistry component. Administration, Oral
Health Coordination and Professional Ethics- implement meetings, facilitate
training initiatives. Provide guidance and leadership towards the design and
implementation of policies and SOPs within the Districts and work towards the
realisation of strategic goals and objectives. Conduct clinical training where
needed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Swanevelder Tel No: (044) 803 - 2709
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.”
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
115
POST 32/131 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING: SPECIALTY (INTENSIVE CARE
UNIT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 (Degree/Diploma in nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with SANC as Professional
Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification in Medical and Surgical Nursing
Science: Critical Care Nursing: General. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 9
years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable experience in
Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing: General. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, weekends, night duty and
overtime, as required. Willingness to work in other wards within New Somerset
hospital as required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication
and writing skills. Principles of Management: leadership, supervisory, problem
solving, conflict resolution, interpersonal, and communication skills.
Knowledge of relevant legislation pertaining to Labour relations, nursing
legislation, related legal and ethical nursing practices and framework, and
relevant to the Department of health and public sector policies and protocols.
Human Resources and Financial Management. Computer literacy in MS Office.
Appropriate knowledge in general nursing and Critical Care Nursing Science.
Ability to function independently as well as part of a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Responsible for the coordination and delivery of quality nursing care within the
relevant Critical care (ICU) department. Participate in formulating, monitoring
and implementation of policies, guidelines, standards, procedures and
regulations pertaining to nursing care within the relevant department. Provide
effective support and management of human, material and financial resources,
as well as functional business FBU Management Principles. Manage staff
performance, training and personal development of self and subordinates,
including management of underperformance and grievances. Collect, provide
and use relevant information for the enhancement of service delivery.
Participate in and encourage nursing research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Basardien Tel No: (021) 402-6224
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates will
be subjected to written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/132 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DIETETICS GRADE 1 (FOOD SERVICE
MANAGEMENT)
Directorate: Facilities Management
SALARY : R638 856 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (Based at M4 Building – Karl Bremmer Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as a Dietician.
Registration with a Professional council: Registration with the HPCSA as a
Dietician. Experience: A minimum of 3 years’ experience after registration with
the HPCSA as a Dietician. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s
licence. Willing to travel throughout the Western Cape Province. Incumbent
must be willing to travel away from the office as required and perform duties
outside normal operating hours. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Incumbent
to have knowledge in food services and related field. Excellent communication
(written and verbal) skills. Proven computer literacy. Report writing and
analytical skills. Sound Management and Facilitation and presentation skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate the updating, development and promotion of provincial
implementation guidelines, standard operating procedures and logs for food
service management. The development, implementation and presentation of
116
strategic and operational plans for food service management. Monitor the
implementation and maintenance of the provincial food service management
implementation guidelines and standard operational procedures.
Implementation of the provincial standardized full menu, specialised diet menu
and associated recipes. Nutritional analysis of the full menu and specialised
diets menu to ensure compliance with minimum nutritional requirements.
Ensuring the implementation and maintenance of OHSA and HACCP
Guidelines. Establishing monitoring and evaluation tools and mechanisms for
food service management. Facilitating provincial and national food service
management audits including milk kitchens. Ensuring Food Service Units
(FSU’s) comply with environmental health legislation. Development and control
of quality standards and specifications for tenders and contracts related to food
service management. Identification and development of suitable food service
management training programs in collaboration with the Directorate: People
Development. Development and maintenance of an appropriate and adequate
information system for FSU’s. Providing input on the layout & design of FSU’s
for newly planned hospitals and existing FSU’s being renovated or upgraded.
Monitoring and provide input into FSU equipment budgets. Conducting
situational analyses to identify gaps and provide guidance to policy and budget
decision makers. Assisting District Management and Hospital Management to
oversee the more technical and complex aspects in respect of the FSU’s at the
small district hospitals where no provision for food service management posts
have been made. Working closely with the Directorate: Service Priorities
Coordination Early Life Course Unit and the Nutrition Focal Persons to ensure
FSU’s align with the Provincial Programmes and Guidelines for the provision
of optimal nutrition as part of the treatment care plan for hospital inpatients.
ENQUIRIES : Dr A Kharwa Tel No: (021) 918-1635
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will also be required to undergo competency
assessments/proficiency tests
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/133 : CHIEF DIAGNOSTIC RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R575 250 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Diagnostic Radiographer. Registration with a Professional council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer. Experience: A minimum of 3
years’ appropriate experience as a Diagnostic Radiographer after registration
with HPCSA. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Willingness to work overtime when required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): The ability to manage and supervise the department with
knowledge, experience and skills in general, trauma, emergency and mobile
radiography and ultrasound. Thorough knowledge of radiation protection,
quality assurance, stock control and equipment safety pertaining to
radiography. Knowledge of radiography protocols. Knowledgeable about
Picture Archiving and Communication System (PACS). Experience in a
Radiography supervisory capacity. Computer literate (MS Windows, MS Word,
MS Excel, MS PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Responsible for control, supervision, delegation, and co-ordination of activities
in the radiography department and the delivery of a professional service to
patients. Participate in the management of the cost centre. Participate in the
management team and delegate management tasks, including statistic
collation and optimal support to the Chief Executive Officer and
multidisciplinary team. Produce diagnostic images of high quality and be
responsible for staff and student training in your area. Management of Human
Resource Management wrt Radiography and support personnel, including
performance appraisals. Ensure quality assurance, maintenance of equipment
and the purchase, use and care of suitable radiation protection equipment. Be
responsible for Quality Assurance management, Financial management and
Administrative management in the department. Participate in radiography
117
tutorials for non-radiographic staff. Optimal support to hospitals and clinics w.r.t
radiographic services.
ENQUIRIES : Dr A Anthony Tel No: (021) 902-8019
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Director: Metro
Health Services, for a period of 3 months from the date of the advert, provided
that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements and salary are the same
as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/134 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING: GENERAL (POSTNATAL AND
GYNAECOLOGY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (diploma/degree
in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Registration with Professional council: Registration with the SANC as a
Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A minimum of 7 years’
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirements
of the job: Willingness to work shifts, weekends, night duty and overtime, as
required. Willingness to work in other wards within New Somerset hospital as
required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good managerial, supervisory and
decision-making skills. Computer literate (Word, Excel, PowerPoint and
Outlook). Knowledge and insight of legislation and policies relevant to current
nursing practices within the Public Service. Disciplinary and conflict
management skills. Good communication and writing skills. Good leadership
and organizational skills and the ability to function under pressure. Ability to
function independently as well as part of a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Supervise and ensure the provision of an effective and efficient postnatal
patient care through adequate nursing care. Coordinate and monitor the
implementation postnatal of nursing care plan and evaluation thereof. Provide
relevant health information to health care users to assist in achieving optimal
health care and rehabilitation of patients. Maintain constructive working
relationships with nursing and other stakeholders (i.e. inter-professional, inter-
sectoral and multi-disciplinary teamwork. Participate in the analysis,
formulation and implementation of nursing guidelines, practices, standards and
procedures. Manage and monitor proper utilization of human, financial and
physical resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Basardien Tel No: (021) 402-6224
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/135 : CHIEF ARTISAN GRADE A
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R480 261 per annum
CENTRE : Office of the Chief Directorate: MHS
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate trade test certificate in Building
Management Electrical/Millwright/Painting/Carpentry/Plumbing). Experience:
A minimum of at least Ten (10) years appropriate experience, post qualification,
after obtaining the Trade Test Certificate as an Artisan / Artisan Foreman.
Appropriate supervisory / Managerial experience. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid Code B/EB/EC1 driver’s licence. Willingness to perform standby
duties after hours and over weekends/Public holidays and overtime when the
118
need arises. Must be physically fit to perform duties as required. Willingness to
travel within the Metropole. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strong
communication skills (written and verbal) with the ability to communicate
effectively to both internal and external stakeholders. Strong organisational and
problem-solving skills to support effective project management and the timely
delivery of targets and outputs. Knowledge of the relevant legislative prescripts,
policies and procedures. Knowledge of the relevant SCM and Finance
legislative prescripts, policies and procedures. Appropriate building
management experience. Ability to work independently and good
organizational and project management skills. Computer proficiency in MS
Office, MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook.
DUTIES : Management, coordination and monitoring of maintenance projects for facilities
within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services. Ensure adherence to all
legislation relating to construction, mechanical, electrical, plumbing, welding
and carpentry works to ensure compliance and smooth operation, within across
the Metro Health Services. Planning of logistical and systems management in
close collaboration with Supply Chain Management/Finance Management
resources at facilities and in the Substructure. Maintenance workshop
management where applicable. Provide input and assistance with technical
specifications. Render sound quality and risk management practices. Strategic
planning, repairs and health facilities maintenance needs and infrastructure
projects. Ensure compliance, safety and risk management practices is adhered
to. Implement strategies to ensure continuous adherence to OHSA and other
legislative frameworks in order to achieve compliance with IHS, IPC and OHS
norms and standards. Provide input, assistance and compile technical
specifications, draft business plans, draft reports and submissions, assist and
complete adverse incident reports, submit monthly and adhoc statistics and
other relevant administrative tasks as required. Draft monthly reports and
perform relevant administrative tasks. General support functions to supervisor
and colleagues.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Valley Tel No: (021) 815-685
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical/written/oral and competency
assessment. The pool of applicants will be considered for any similar vacant
posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3
months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/136 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: NEONATOLOGY)
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 369 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. A
post-basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year accredited with
the SANC in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science. Registration
with a Professional council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period
referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic qualification in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal
Nursing Science. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts,
day & night duty, weekends and public holidays to meet the operational
requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Display core values of the
Department of Health and Wellness (WCG) on the execution of duties while
practicing within the legislation, regulations and protocols applicable to the
public service. Knowledge and insight of relevant legislation and policy related
to nursing within the Department of Health Western Cape. Plan, Organize, &
Coordinate the service by analysing, problem solving, and decision making.
119
Leadership towards the realization of strategic goals is required when applying
for this post. Candidates who are not in possession of the required qualification
will be appointed i and objective of the speciality clinical department.
DUTIES : Ensure quality patient care regarding the identification of nursing care needs,
the planning and implementation of nursing care plans and the education of
the nursing personnel as a Professional Nurse in the specific speciality clinical
area. Render and supervise specialised clinical nursing care and support
clinical staff with procedures within the specific clinical speciality unit. Utilize
human, material and physical resources and development of self and others.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs V Dubase Tel No: (021) 938-4000
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. the general
stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary qualification within
the predetermined period of time. Candidates who are not in possession of
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who
apply for the first time for registration in the post-basic qualification in Advanced
Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/137 : QUALITY ASSURANCE COORDINATOR
Cape Winelands District
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Winelands District Office based in Stellenbosch Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate four-Year National Diploma/
Degree or equivalent in Health Sciences registerable with a South African
Statutory Health Professions Council or South African Nursing Council.
Experience: Appropriate experience in Quality Assurance (QA). Appropriate
experience in Infection Prevention Control (IPC), Occupation Health and Safety
(OH&S). Experience in Management. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s license and willingness to travel extensively within the
Rural Districts. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to analyze and
interpret Health Systems Information, compile reports and present the data to
direct planning. Knowledge of Project and Financial Management. Good
organizational, interpersonal, creative problem solving and research skills.
Computer literacy (Ms Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Ability to
communicate effectively.
DUTIES : Support the Health Establishment staff with the implementation of the Ideal
Clinic Realization and Maintenance (ICRM) and Ideal Hospital requirements in
preparation for the Office of Health Standards Compliance (OHSC). Establish
measures that will ensure health and safety of staff and users and ensure the
maintenance of the Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) standards. Help
build the competency of staff by identifying, planning and addressing Quality
Improvement (QI), Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) and Occupational
Health and Safety training needs and maintaining and updating the Health
Establishment training data base. Monitor data quality in the Health
Establishment. Manage service utilization by care coordination in order to meet
the comprehensive Health needs of the individual client and to ensure quality
and cost-effective outcomes.
ENQUIRIES : Dr N Blanckenberg Tel No: (021) 808-6106
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test and competency assessment.
The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within Stellenbosch
Sub-district, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided
that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
120
POST 32/138 : STRATEGIC SOURCING SPECIALIST
Directorate: Supply Chain Sourcing
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Supply Chain Management/Procurement/Public Management/
Public Administration/Finance/Auditing/Project Management/ Commercial field
or Built Environment or equivalent). Experience: Appropriate experience in
Supply Chain Management (Demand Management, Secretariat support to Bid
Adjudication or Tender Committee, or other committees with a similar strategic
value) Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver's license (Code B/EB).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strong proficiency in data analysis,
Reporting, market research, analysis of procurement data. Ability to handle
matters of a confidential nature. Computer Literacy, with advanced
competence in MS Word and Excel and good working knowledge of
BAS/SYSPRO/LOGIS. Excellent written and verbal communication skills in
English & Afrikaans or IsiXhosa, incl. report writing, Analytical skills (with
particular focus on numerical accuracy, data analysis, data sets and other
relevant information). Supervisory skills. Presentation skills. Sound problem-
solving skills, Ability to work under pressure, Knowledge of tools for report
generation (MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint, etc.)
DUTIES : Manage Procurement Planning and Demand Management Processes for the
Department, Provide quarterly updates to stakeholders with regards to
procurement plans. Manage the BAC/TC processes (Bid Secretariat). The
review of departmental policy processes and regular communication thereon.
Operationalizing provincial policy on Demand Management and procurement
Planning. Reporting. Manage staff and section output (Human Resource
Management).
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Mili Tel No: (021) 834 9050, email: Ayanda. Mili@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/139 ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE (SUPPLY CHAIN
MANAGEMENT/REVENUE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year tertiary National
Diploma or Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Finance, Supply
Chain in health-related environments and Revenue/patient admin.
Management and Preventative Maintenance. Appropriate management and
Supervisory experience. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to compile,
interpret and analyse reports. Good interpersonal relations and communication
skills. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Overall management of the Finance, Supply Chain, Revenue/patient admin,
information management, case management, and Contract Management
components for Eerste River Hospital as well as Kleinvlei and Mfuleni Day
Clinics. Monitor, control, and report expenditure, income and budget-related
matters. Analyse, interpret, report financial budget deviations and trends.
Manage demand, procurement, assets and disposals. Maintain financial and
procurement systems. Facilitate the award and management of contracts.
Experience in the hospital Facility Board accounting environment. Manage
Human Resources in the components.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. A Anthony Tel No: (021) 902-8024
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. No payment of
any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
121
POST 32/140 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National
Diploma/Degree in an Information Management or related field. Experience:
Appropriate experience in Information Management. Appropriate experience in
supervisory capacity. Appropriate experience in the key performance areas of
the job. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Extensive knowledge and understanding of
the healthcare environment and relevant legislation and regulations within
Information Management. In-depth knowledge of Information Management
prescripts, guidelines, policies, and National and Provincial indicator datasets,
and indicator development. Strong problem-solving, lateral thinking, and data
analytics skills, complemented by proficiency in data management, report
writing, and the use of data visualization tools for effective presentation.
Demonstrates excellent communication skills, as well as strong training,
presentation, interpersonal, leadership, and conflict resolution abilities.
Advance computer proficiency in MS Office (PowerPoint, Excel, Word) and
highly developed understanding of Health Information Systems such as but not
limited to SINJANI, Clinicom, BAS, SYSPRO, JAC, DHIS, SharePoint, SPV,
PHCIS, Tier.Net, HECTIS, and eCCR, etc. Good leadership and interpersonal
skills, with the ability to work independently and as part of a team. Good written
and verbal communication skills.
DUTIES : Effectively and efficiently provide leadership and manage the Information
Management section in the Finance Directorate, to achieve its goals, objectives
and targets by providing interpretation, application and ensure compliance to
all policies, regulations, prescripts and instructions. Support the
implementation of information management policies, data collection tools,
definitions, standard operating procedures, and monitor and coordinate data
flow processes, according to policy time frames. Support internal and external
stakeholders in terms of data management, analysis and training. Must adhere
to requirements of the different levels of reporting i.e. Provincial and National
levels. Manage the production of relevant, timeous and accurate operational
reports. Facilitating data quality monitoring and data quality improvement
projects to strengthen M&E process at facility level. Performing audit readiness
assessments, liaison with auditors (external and internal) and deal with audit
queries. Roll out and support Health Information Systems within the facility and
utilization of available technology to meet requirements of an ever-changing
healthcare environment. Management of staff in the component, including staff
performance, R&S process, training, disciplinary process and general support
of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr AAH Malgas Tel No: (021) 938-4014
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be required to do a practical/ competency assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/141 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING:
THEATRE AND CSSD)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital, Khayelitsha Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. A post-basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least one year,
accredited with SANC in Medical and surgical Nursing Science: Operating
Theatre. Registration with Professional council: Registration with the SANC as
a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
122
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in
Operating Theatre after obtaining the one-year post-basic qualification in the
relevant specialty as mentioned above. Inherent requirement of the job:
Willingness to work shifts, weekends, public holidays and perform overtime.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge and understanding of
Nursing and health service-related Acts, Legislation and Policies of the
Department of Health Western Cape. Leadership towards realisation of
strategic goals and objectives of the theatre with regards to emergency and
non-emergency operating nursing, as well as day patient care. Computer
literate (MS Windows, MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Provide an optimal, holistic, specialised Nursing Care within set standards and
within a professional, legal framework as a Professional Nurse in an Operating
Theatre and CSSD. Participate in training, development, and research.
Supervise and assist Staff Nurses and Nursing Assistants. Practice Nursing
and health care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing
and health care. Ordering of medication and stock control. Support and monitor
proper and effective utilization of human, material, financial, and physical
resources. Provision of effective professional and technical support to Nursing
Services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MM Luphondo Tel No: (021) 902-8010/57
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the required qualifications will be appointed into
the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary
qualifications within a predetermined period. “Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification: Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating Theatre.
The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services for a period of three months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/142 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Bergriver Sub-district (stationed at Piketberg CDC)
REQUIREMENTS : minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. A post basic nursing qualification with duration of at least 1-year
Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care
(R48) accredited with SANC. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience:
Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing
after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience in the specific specialty after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic qualification as mentioned above. Inherent requirement
of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to travel.
Willingness to travel between PHC facilities within the Bergriver SD and
provide relief as Clinical Nurse Practitioner. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good interpersonal, communication skills. Ability to work independently and in
a multi-disciplinary team. Knowledge of Community Oriented Primary care.
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel).
123
DUTIES : Effective execution and assist with the management of relevant Curative
Programs within the scope of practice and to be an advocate for the patient to
ensure the provision of necessary health care. Effective execution and assist
with the management of relevant Child Health within the scope of practice and
to be an advocate for the patient to ensure the provision of necessary health
care. Effective execution and assist with the management of relevant Women’s
Health within the scope of practice and to be an advocate for the patient to
ensure the provision of necessary health care. Effective execution and assist
with the management of relevant HAST programs within the scope of practice
and to be an advocate for the patient to ensure the provision of necessary
health care. The effective provision of high-quality services measured by
outcomes of all of the quality assurance activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M.E Ramokgadi Tel No: (022) 913-3062
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is-only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification: Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science, Health Assessment,
Treatment Care with the South African Nursing Council. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Bergriver Sub-district,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/143 : MEDICAL PHYSICIST (INTERN)
(2-Year Contract)
SALARY : R442 113 per annum, A portion of the package can be structured according to
the individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Physicist (Intern). Registration with
Professional council: Registration with the Health Profession Council of South
Africa as a Medical Physicist Intern. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Understand the theoretical physics of radiotherapy, diagnostic radiology and
nuclear medicine. Mathematical competency. Insight and proven solving
capabilities. Good communication and interpersonal relationship skills.
Computer literacy. Be a highly motivated and methodical individual who pays
attention to detail and the ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines.
DUTIES : The candidate will undergo internship training for a minimum of 2 years as an
intern medical physicist according to the HPCSA-accredited training program
at Groote Schuur Hospital. The candidate will be expected to perform routine
medical physics duties under supervision. The candidate is expected to take
part in all quality control, dosimetry, brachytherapy and radiation protection
calculations and measurements performed in the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Stofile Tel No: (021) 404-6266 / 4 or
email:caroline.stofile@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates maybe subjected to a practical assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or
before the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status)”. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Groote Schuur Hospital for a period of three months from the date of the
124
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/144 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape Rehabilitation Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate qualification that allows for
the registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as an Occupational Therapist. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
an Occupational Therapist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational
Therapist. One-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
an Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign-qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational
Therapist. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa as an Occupational Therapist
in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
community service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A Minimum of 20
years relevant experience after registration with the Health Professions Council
of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational Therapist. A minimum of 21 years
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational
Therapist in respect of foreign-qualified employees, of whom it is not required
to perform community service, as required in South Africa Inherent requirement
of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Basic to intermediate therapeutic knowledge and skills in the management of
clients with neurological deficits. Ability to be flexible and innovative in
response to differing client needs and work within the MDT/IDT. Knowledge
and optimal utilization of community resources. Knowledge and correct
application of internal and external procedures and prescripts, DOHW ethical
codes and HPCSA standards of professional practice. Ability to guide and
supervise students. Appropriate experience working with persons with
disabilities as an Occupational Therapist in a healthcare setting. Computer
literacy in MS Office.
DUTIES : Provision of Occupational Therapy services in the specialist field of
rehabilitation at WCRC and associated facilities. Provision of specialised
seating and/or mobility assistive devices and/or assistive devices. Clinical
management of clients including facilitation of re-integration into the
community. Support of Supervisory structures / persons including resource
management and adherence to HR pre-scripts. Participation in training and
development including guidance of students.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C van Genderen Tel No: (021) 370-2441
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. “The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within (Place), for a period of three months from the date of the
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
125
POST 32/145 : ORAL HYGIENIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Langeberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows for the
required registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as an Oral Hygienist. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as an Oral Hygienist. Experience: Grade 1: None
after registration as Oral Hygienist with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Oral Hygienist with
a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate
experience as Oral Hygienist after registration with the HPCSA as Oral
Hygienist in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant
experience after registration as Oral Hygienist with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate experience as Oral Hygienist after
registration with the HPCSA as Oral Hygienist in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration as
Oral Hygienist with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect
of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
(Code EB) driver’s license. Willingness to travel within the Sub-district.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to function independently, as well as
in a multi- disciplinary team. Good communication, interpersonal and
organizing skills, Problem solving abilities and analytical thinking. Computer
literacy (MS Word, Excel and Power point).
DUTIES : Clinical service delivery. Oral health education and disease prevention.
Perform administrative duties. Quality Clinical Governance. Professional
Ethics.
ENQUIRIES : Dr GA Davids Tel No: (023) 626-1602
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A practical test
may form part of the selection process. Candidates who are not in possession
of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates
will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application
for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Langeberg Sub-district, for a period of three months from the date of the
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/146 : PHYSIOTHERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Helderberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Appropriate qualification that allows for the
required registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as a Physiotherapist. Registration with a Professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist. Experience: Grade 1: None
after registration with the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in respect of South
African qualified employees. 1 Year relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in respect of foreign qualified employees of
126
whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South
Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration
with the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in respect of South African qualified
employees. Minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in respect of foreign qualified employees of whom
it is not required to perform community Services as required in South Africa.
Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in respect of South African qualified employees.
Minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
a Physiotherapist in respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to
rotate across departments and attend to both in- and outpatients as required.
Physically able to manage the demands of the post, including patient handling
and prolonged standing. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Clinical experience
in the management of a wide range of conditions, including but not limited to
orthopaedic, neurological, cardiorespiratory, and paediatric cases.
Understanding of and ability to implement rehabilitation programs in line with
national and provincial health priorities. Knowledge and understanding of Ideal
Hospital Realisation and Maintenance Framework (IHRMF) standards and
audits. Ability to work effectively within a multidisciplinary team. Excellent
communication, interpersonal, problem-solving and time management skills.
Strong administrative and computer skills, including knowledge of CLINICOM,
ECCR, and statistics reporting tools.
DUTIES : Deliver comprehensive physiotherapy assessments, treatments and
rehabilitation plans for both inpatients and outpatients. Collaborate with the
multidisciplinary team to ensure holistic and patient-centered care. Assist with
the training, supervision and mentoring of supportive staff and students.
Maintain accurate clinical records and participate in data collection, audits, and
continuous quality improvement initiatives. Participating in health promotion
and patient education initiatives. Participate actively in Ideal Hospital audits
and quality assurance programs. Ensure the effective management of
equipment and consumables and report on usage and needs.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Coetzee Tel No: (021) 850-4716
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted with their job application/on appointment. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals whom apply for the first time for registration
in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for other vacant Physiotherapy posts within the Chief Director
Metro Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/147 : CLINICAL TECHNOLOGIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (NEPHROLOGY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Clinical Technologist in Nephrology. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Clinical Technologist: Nephrology. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Clinical Technologist:
Nephrology in respect of RSA qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as a Clinical Technologist: Nephrology in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Clinical
127
Technologist: Nephrology respect of SA qualified employees. A Minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Clinical
Technologist: Nephrology in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it
is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as a Clinical Technologist: Nephrology in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 21 years’ relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA as a Clinical Technologist: Nephrology in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: After-hours’ service
is compulsory. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills
(verbal and written). Good interpersonal skills. Capable of maintaining
confidentiality. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to manoeuvre heavy
dialysis equipment. Ability to work independently and within a team at all levels
of authority. Basic computer skills in MS Word and MS Excel.
DUTIES : Perform renal replacement therapies in chronic and acute settings. Perform
continuous renal replacement therapies, i.e CVVHD, CVVHDF & SLED.
Perform daily RO water checks; do monthly water sampling for bacterial count
and perform tests for the endotoxin levels. Perform therapeutic plasma
exchange (membrane plasma separation). Participate in on-going quality
control and infection control. Participate in training of Clinical Technology
students. Perform assigned administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JD Maree, email: jdma@sun.ac.za or Tel No: (021) 938-5558
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
as Clinical Technologist: Nephrology with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/148 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PATIENT ADMINISTRATION
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Patient Administration or
Hospital Fees. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of a Health
information system. Knowledge of the uniform patient fee structure. Abreast
with Patient Administration policies and procedures. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Good interpersonal skills and the ability to act
independently or as a team, objectively and with confidence. Computer literate
Microsoft Office: Word, Excell. Ability to work under pressure, handle a high
work volume and meet strict deadlines.
DUTIES : Manage the correct application of Patient Administration policies and
procedures pertaining to the registration, admission/attendance and discharge
procedures of all patient categories. Ensure UPFS accounts are accurate and
timeously submitted to Hospital Fees. Monitor and evaluate patient stats and
implement corrective actions where necessary. Compile quarterly and annual
reports of the sub-section. Effective interaction with multi-disciplinary team.
Ability to work under pressure, independently and meet strict deadlines.
Responsible for the supervision of Patient Administration staff as per HR
policies. Plan and monitor internal and external training program of staff.
Comply with the Code of Conduct regarding the Discipline and Grievance
procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Jooste Tel No: (021) 938-4140
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
128
POST 32/149 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: LABOUR RELATIONS
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Central Karoo District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma/
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in PERSAL. Appropriate
experience in labour relations. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to travel within the Central Karoo
geographical area, George and Cape Town. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy (MS Office package). Ability to work under pressure, meet
deadlines and maintain confidentiality. Ability to work independently and in a
team with good report writing skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate the effective functioning of the IMLC’s and act as secretarial for the
IMLC. Maintain and report on labour relations statistics. Facilitation of training
for all staff with regards to labour relations issues. Assist with preparation for
conciliation and arbitration and represent where required. Handle grievances
and disciplinary matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Joubert Tel No: (044) 803 - 2700
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Central Karoo District, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/150 : COMMUNITY LIAISON OFFICER
Garden Route District
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Garden Route District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Social Science/Social Development/ Communication/Community
Development. Experience: Appropriate experience with community
development, project management or NPO sector. Inherent requirement of the
job: Valid driver’s licence (Code B) and willingness to travel. Willingness to
perform overtime duties when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good communication skills (verbal and written) and presentation skills. Ability
to work independently and in a team environment. Good coordination skills,
project management skills and training skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Overall coordination and monitoring of Clinic Committees and all other
community structures, including the planning of meetings, within the Garden
Route District and support with the establishment of Clinic Committees.
Support the Garden Route district office with the establishment of the Health
Facility Boards and liaise with health orientated community organisations to
ensure effective communication between services and the communities.
Networking and mobilization with Governmental and other community
structures/ volunteers to assist in sub district agreed upon campaigns as part
of intersectoral collaboration and building healthy communities. Marketing of
Departmental programmes as part of intersectoral collaboration and building
healthy communities. Support Comprehensive Health- and other Components
in the District Office by attending District Community meetings as needed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Terblanche Tel No: (044) 803- 2700
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Garden Route District, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
129
POST 32/151 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT (COMPLIANCE)
Directorate: People Strategy, People Management, Compliance and Training
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (Based on the Premises of Karl Bremer Hospital:
Bellville Health Park Building)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience and in-depth knowledge in the
field of Human Resource Management in the Public Service with the emphasis
on all aspects of personnel administration. Appropriate supervisory experience.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Code 8 (B, EB) driver’s licence (certified
copy). Willingness to work away from home on a continuous basis.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good verbal and written communication
skills to ensure effective presentation of policies as well as report writing.
Extensive knowledge and practical skills of the PERSAL system Sound
computer skills in MS Office package:(Word, Excel, Power Point, etc.), Outlook,
Teams Sound knowledge of the Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
and Collective Agreements regarding the above mentioned.
DUTIES : Perform relief function at Health facilities in the absence of People
Management Staff. Assist People Management with identified PM functions:
backlogs, grade progressions (OSD), service terminations, etc. Ensure
rectifications of Auditor-General Reports, Internal Auditors reports as well as
People Strategy: People Management, Compliance and Training audit reports,
People Management Legislation, policies, practices and conditions of service
and give guidance/advice to line managers. Identify training needs, implement
programs for training of staff as well as conduct and facilitate formal functional
training regarding the correct application of Human Resource Legislation,
policies, practices and conditions of service Informal training of newly
appointed employees (Administration Clerks, Administrative Officers, Senior
Administrative Officers) in all aspects of People Management. Sample testing
of People Management Audits on Audit Action Plan to verify correct reporting
Perform client services function e.g. helpdesk regarding Conditions of Service.
Provide efficient support to managers during HRM Risk Management
Analyses, Ad Hoc investigations, inputs towards policies, etc. applicable to
Conditions of Service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Schwartz Tel No: (021) 815 8783/ Mr ME Martin Tel No: (021) 815 8782
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/152 : SYSTEM CONTROLLER
Directorate: Information Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Health Information Systems.
Appropriate experience and skills in Microsoft Excel and report writing. Inherent
requirement of the job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): A high level of computer literacy. Experienced in system
support to be able to manage the Medicine Management systems used in the
province. Knowledge of the Regulations concerning pharmaceuticals and
supply-chain management. Excellent communication skills, to manage the
change management process within the organisation to achieve full
acceptance of the system, with all users and relative parties. Good people
management skills and a positive attitude towards working co-operatively with
colleagues and stakeholders at all levels of authority. Experience in the use of
Microsoft Excel. Microsoft report writing skills. Knowledge of Impromptu® and
Crystal® reporting software. Knowledge of the CRD® software.
DUTIES : Client services: Support and liaise with facilities using the Medicine
Management Systems in the province. Management of all change control
processes. Support the standard monthly and ad hoc reporting requirements
using report writing tools. System maintenance: Maintenance of master files to
ensure that the system complies with current regulations. Ensure effective
communication regarding Pharmacy requirements such as data availability and
130
data quality with Pharmacy role players, including end users and managers.
Assist with compiling and maintaining system user manuals and procedures.
Assist with the implementation and support of the Medicine Management
System at Health facilities. Provide ad-hoc support to supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Blockman at (072) 321-2015 or Mr J Maharaj Tel No: (021) 938-6513
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/153 : ARTISAN FOREMAN: GRADE A (MECHANICAL, REFRIGERATING OR
ELECTRICAL)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade A: R382 047 per annum
CENTRE : Robertson Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate trade test certificate.
Experience: Grade A: 5 years’ experience after obtaining the relevant trade test
certificate. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s licence.
Do standby, work overtime when needed. Responsible to work in all Langeberg
facilities. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Conversant with the requirements
of the Machinery and Occupational Health and Safety Act. (Act 85). Ability to
fault-find and repair down to component level. Competent with hands-on
practical work. Computer literacy in Microsoft Excel, Word and Power Point.
Ability to work under pressure and independently with good report-writing skills,
conflict management and interpersonal skills, as well as excellent verbal and
written communication skills. Sound knowledge of managing a workshop and
staff members including all maintenance facets.
DUTIES : Supervise staff in workshop and produce designs and with material and
equipment according to job specifications and standards. Carry out technical
investigations and surveys, develop repair solutions to plant, equipment and
maintenance problems and render technical advice and ensure quality
assurance of all work performed. Repair and install mechanical equipment at
Health facilities, plants and buildings according to standards. Keep register of
all work done, keep control of job cards and compile and submit reports as
required. Ensure adherence to safety standards, requirements and regulations.
Perform administrative duties and assist the assistant Director, PM & Facility
management with personal progress reports. Do the ordering, procurement
and control of maintenance material and equipment. The ability to perform
administrative duties and record keeping.
ENQUIRIES : Ms EM Volschenk Tel No: (023) 626-8565
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will have to complete a practical test and competency assessment
as part of the interview process. The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within Robertson Hospital, for a period of three months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/154 : EMS SHIFT LEADER GRADE 3 TO 6 (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency, Clinical and Support Services
SALARY : Grade 3: R335 226 per annum
Grade 4: R397 308 per annum
Grade 5: R480 108 per annum
Grade 6: R589 443 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services, Metropole and Rural Districts
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 3: Successful completion of the
Intermediate Life Support (ILS) that allows registration with the HPCSA as
Ambulance Emergency Assistant (AEA). -Grade 4: Successful completion of
the Emergency Care Technician (ECT) that allows registration with the HPCSA
as Emergency Care Technician (ECT). Grade 5: Successful completion of the
Critical Care Assistant course (CCA) or National Diploma that allows
registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic. Grade 6: Successful completion of
the B-Tech Degree that allows registration with the HPCSA as Emergency Care
131
Practitioner (ECP). Registration with Professional council: Grade 3:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as an AEA.
Grade 4: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as
an ECT. Grade 5: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa as a Paramedic. Grade 6: Registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa as an ECP. Experience: Grade 3: Minimum of 3 years’
experience within your current registration category with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa as Ambulance Emergency Assistant
(AEA). Grade 4: Minimum of 3 years’ experience within your current
registration category with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as
Emergency Care Technician (ECT). Grade 5: Minimum of 3 years’ experience
your current registration category with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa as Paramedic. Grade 6: Minimum of 3 years’ experience your current
registration category with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as
Emergency Care Practitioner (ECP). Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
code C1 driver’s license. Current Professional driver’s permit. Current
registration with HPCSA as an AEA, ECT, Paramedic or ECP. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Excellent knowledge of all levels of Emergency Care
protocols. Good communication and interpersonal skills. Computer literacy in
the MS Office package. Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Effective pre-hospital Emergency Medical Care and response to incidences
when required. Ensure effective supervision and maintenance of Emergency
Vehicles and equipment in line with the Financial and Fleet directives. Ensure
effective report writing with regards to accident and incident reports, loss and
theft control incidents and safety incidents. Ensure effective communication
with regards to patients, colleagues, other services, and members of the
Public. -Supervise and manage rostered shifts and personnel in line with
People Management policies and practices. Provide effective administrative
support to the Supervisor when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Modack-Robertson Tel No: (021) 932 1966
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be expected to undergo a practical assessment. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Emergency Medical Services, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/155 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT (GENERAL SUPPORT
SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape Rehabilitation Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in a hospital-related environment.
Appropriate experience in support services and contract management.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and communication skills. Good
decision making and conflict management skills. Computer literacy in MS Word
and Excel.
DUTIES : Provide efficient and effective leadership and management of Support Services
component and its resources. Oversee support service components such as
Drivers, porters, registry (excluding medical records), switchboard. Oversee
contract management related to support services that include waste treatment,
cleaning, catering, pest control, skip rental, recycling. Attend Safety and
security-, QA-, OHS/IPC-, waste committee-, GGHH committee meetings and
132
support service-related meetings at institutional and provincial level.
Supervision and responsible for people management duties of support service
staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Minnies Tel No: (021) 370-2348
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. “The
pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of three months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/156 : STATE ACCOUNTANT
Directorate: Facilities and Infrastructure management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (21st Floor, The Box, 9 Lower Burg Street)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRAs) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
public sector financial environment and related systems and on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of post. Inherent requirements of the job: Ability to
travel and work overtime if required. Competencies (Working knowledge/skills):
Knowledge and experience of working within the built environment sector.
Excellent interpersonal skills and the ability to interact with a broad range of
users. Ability to analyse information. The ability to work co-operatively with
colleagues and stakeholders at all levels of authority but also, to work
independently and unsupervised. Sound understanding of accounting
principles. Knowledge of the budgeting process, BAS, LOGIS, AFS Reporting,
Ledger Account clearing, Payments. Knowledge of the PFMA, DORA, National
and Provincial Treasury Regulations. The ability to work co-operatively with
colleagues and stakeholders at all levels of authority but also to work
independently and unsupervised. Sound knowledge of MS Office, MS excel,
Vulindlela.
DUTIES : Capture payments and projects on BAS and other systems. Clearing of intra
account. Create excel spreadsheets and pivot tables. Assist with access to
relevant SCOA Codes. Detect and control correction of incorrect accounting
entries. Effective and efficient document control systems. Clearing of intra
Account.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T September, email: Tenille.September@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/157 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER
Overberg District
(Contract post until 31 March 2026)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of service benefits
CENTRE : Overberg District Office, Caledon
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Senior certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in the field of People Management.
Appropriate PERSAL experience. Appropriate experience on the online E-
Recruiting system. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Willingness to travel to institutions within the Overberg District.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent (verbal and written)
communication skills. Ability to work independently and to meet deadlines.
Appropriate knowledge of HR Policies, procedures and practices. Computer
skills (MS Office, MS Teams, Excel and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Assist with Recruitment and Selection, advertising of posts, DOTS
Verifications, Pay Progressions, Grade Progressions, Salary Determination in
respect of different OSD and non-OSD categories. Assist with Performance
Management and PERMIS training in Sub-districts and act as helpdesk for
133
PERMIS. Assist the Pre-and Formal Moderating Committees with strategic
overview of the performance management process. Assist with the
implementation and maintenance of policy documents/circulars within the
district as well as provision of training in this regard. Administer and ensure
effective and efficient implementation of HRM policies, prescripts, capturing
and approval of PERSAL transactions with regards to Personnel provisioning,
Personnel and Salary administration. Provide support and guidance to the
institutional management, line managers and personnel regarding employment
practices. Render a general support service to supervisor and colleagues.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Sass Tel No: (028) 214-5808
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online Applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/158 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
(Plus non pensionable rural allowance of 8% of your annual basic salary)
CENTRE : Langerberg Sub-district (Stationed at Cogmanskloof Clinic)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with Professional council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration
as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum
of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of
20 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirements
of the job: Valid (code B/EB) driver’s licence Willingness to work after hours
and in other facilities in the Langeberg Sub-district area when needed
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel). Good
interpersonal, communication skills. Ability to work independently and in a
multi-disciplinary team. Knowledge of Community Oriented Primary Care.
DUTIES : Provision of Primary Health Care in accordance with the guidelines and
protocols of the Western Cape. Maintain accurate clinical records, statistics
registers, and referral records. Effective utilization of Resources/Stock within
the limited budget constraints. Participation in Community events and initiating
awareness with regards to health-related issues. Maintain and participate in
inter professional and multi-disciplinary teamwork but able to work
independently. Supervise and mentor lower categories of staff and improving
quality of health services. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and
self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MP Williams Tel No: (023) 626-8542
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A practical test
may form part of the selection process. Candidates who are not in possession
of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates
will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application
for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Langeberg Sub-district, for a period of three months from the date of the
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
134
POST 32/159 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT: GRADE 1 TO 3 (POST BASIC)
Directorate: Information Management
SALARY : Grade 1: R264 750 per annum
Grade 2: R306 411 per annum
Grade 3: R330 540 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: As required by the training facility and the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) plus Post-Basic Pharmacist Assistant
qualification that allows registration with SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant
(Post-Basic) or Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) Institutional. Registration
with professions Council: Registration with the South African Pharmacy
Council as Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post- Basic) (Institutional) or Pharmacist
Assistant (Post-Basic). Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
SAPC as Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic). Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a
Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Grade 3: A minimum of 13
years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a
Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Inherent requirement of the
job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): A
high level of computer literacy. Appropriate experience in Health Information
Systems. Experienced in system support to be able to manage the Medicine
Management systems used in the province. Experience in training end users.
Knowledge of the Regulations concerning pharmaceuticals and supply-chain
management. Excellent communication skills, to manage the change
management process within the organisation to achieve full acceptance of the
system, with all users and relative parties. Good people management skills and
a positive attitude towards working co-operatively with colleagues and
stakeholders at all levels of authority.
DUTIES : Client services: Support and liaise with facilities using the Medicine
Management Systems in the province. Management of all change control
processes. Provide end user training in the use of the pharmacy system.
Provide operational support at the facility. System maintenance: Maintenance
of master files to ensure that the system complies with current regulations.
Ensure effective communication regarding Pharmacy requirements such as
data availability and data quality with Pharmacy role players, including end
users and managers. Assist with compiling and maintaining system user
manuals and procedures. Assist with the implementation and support of the
Medicine Management System at Health facilities. Provide ad-hoc support to
supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Blockman at (072) 321-2015 or Mr J Maharaj Tel No: (021) 938-6513
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/160 : CASE MANAGER (5/8TH POST)
Overberg District
SALARY : R248 199 per annum
CENTRE : Otto Du Plessis Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An Appropriate three-year health-related
National Diploma/Degree or equivalent registrable with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) or South African Nursing Council (SANC).
Experience: Appropriate experience in liaison with medical aid (funders) and
managed care organisations regarding MHC policies, protocols, optimal fund
utilisation and updated clinical information. Appropriate experience in Case
Management/Medical Aid Environment. Appropriate experience in ICD 10
codes assigned and the ability to link patient diagnosis with procedure codes.
135
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid B/EB/C1 driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the Uniform Patient Fees Schedule, Hospital
Information Systems and EDI (Electronic Data Interchange). Knowledge of the
Medical Aid Act 131 of 1998 and the application of Prescribed Minimum Benefit
(PMB) legislation i.e. the Chronic Disease List (CDL) and the Diagnostic
Treatment Pairs (DTP). Ability to work with MS Excel and Web-based
Programmes (medical aids). Excellent written and verbal communication skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for the management and implementation of Case Management
policies, protocol and procedures in the hospital. Perform operational Case
Management functions inclusive of pre-authorisation and clinical review to
ensure compliance with Case Management policies and procedures. Conduct
clinical audits of patient accounts to ensure accuracy of invoices for submission
to medical aids and state departments and the provision of quotes. Provide
support to the hospital Fees Department in terms of follow-up of outstanding
medical scheme and state department balances, account queries and provide
quotations to H2, H3 and Foreign patients. Assist with EDI rejections to ensure
timeous submission of medical scheme invoices. Assist Hospital Management
in the distribution of Quality Client Care and compilation of statistical reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Joubert Tel No: (028) 514-8401
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online Applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Overberg District, for a
period of 3 months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/161 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION: GRADE A TO C (ELECTRICAL)
SALARY : Grade A: R243 597 per annum
Grade B: R285 816 per annum
Grade C: R332 061 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Trade Test Certificate.
Experience: Grade A: Appropriate experience in the electrical field, general
electrical repairs and installations. Grade B: At least 18 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in the area after obtaining the relevant
Trade Test Certificate. Grade C: At least 34 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in the area after obtaining the relevant Trade Test Certificate
Inherent requirements of the job: A Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and own
reliable transport. Ability to work on ladders and multi-storied buildings.
Willingness to work overtime and do standby duties. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to work independently and under pressure. Ability to
plan ahead (pro-active), work independently as well as in a team and it would
be required for the officer to learn and comply with in-house systems and
procedures. Strict adherence to the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
DUTIES : Assist with execution of electrical projects which will include repairs and
installations. Maintain and repair plant equipment. Assist other departments
within the workshop set up. Ability to work independently and within a team set
up. Management and planning of plant maintenance. Maintain, install, repair,
modify and manufacture items, equipment and machines in the electrical field.
Inspection, checking and testing equipment, installations and machinery.
Complete and return repair requisitions and assist in ordering and controlling
the workshop, materials and tools. Maintain equipment and work areas in a
clean and safe condition. Administration of all documents (filing, leave
management, standby and overtime).
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Johnson Tel No: (021) 658-5481
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
136
POST 32/162 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST BASIC) GRADE 1 TO 3
(INSTITUTIONAL)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R264 750 per annum
Grade 2: R306 411 per annum
Grade 3: R330 540 per annum
CENTRE : Ceres CDC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: As required by the training facility and the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) plus a Post Basic Pharmacist
Assistant qualification that allows registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist
Assistant (Post-Basic) (Institutional). Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the South African Pharmacy Council as Pharmacist’s
Assistant (Post- Basic) (Institutional) or Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic).
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Pharmacist Assistant (Post-
Basic) with the SAPC. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience
as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-
Basic) (Institutional). with the SAPC. Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years’
appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a
Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) (Institutional). with the SAPC. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to
travel and to work under direct- and indirect supervision of a pharmacist.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good knowledge of institutional pharmacy
practices and procedures. Good numerical skills. Knowledge and/or
experience in handling pharmaceutical supplies, including appropriate cold
chain practices. Knowledge of Medicine Supply Management Principles.
Knowledge of Good Pharmacy Practices. Meticulous and attention to detail.
Proficient in the use of MS Office applications (including Excel, Word, Outlook
and Teams). Experience in the use of dispensing /stock control programs of
which Well sky (JAC) and Win RDM will be an advantage. Ability to work as
part of a multidisciplinary team or independently. Ability to work under pressure,
be patient centered and dedicated to excellent service.
DUTIES : Pharmaceutical service delivery according to legislation and scope of practice.
Effective medicine supply management (Receiving, storage, control and
distribution of pharmaceuticals) including cold chain management in all areas
where medications are kept. Provision of health information and advice on
correct usage and storage of medication. Assistance with waste management
and rational usage of resources. Compliance with policy and legislative
requirements and Good Pharmacy Practice Guidelines. Assistance with the
Chronic Dispensing Unit (CDU) processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Swarts Tel No: (023) 316 -9614
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)” ” The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within Ceres CDC, for a period of three months from the date of the
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/163 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A TO C (MECHANICAL)
SALARY : Grade A: R243 597 per annum
Grade B: R285 816 per annum
Grade C: R332 061 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Trade Test Certificate.
Experience: Grade A: No experience required. Grade B: At least 18 years’
appropriate/recognizable experience in the area after obtaining the relevant
Trade Test Certificate. Grade C: At least 34 years’ appropriate/recognizable
experience in the area after obtaining the relevant Trade Test Certificate.
137
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver's license and own
reliable vehicle for overtime duties. Ability to perform standby and overtime
duties. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in the
mechanical field, general mechanical repairs and the ability to carry out basic
general welding. Appropriate knowledge of air conditioning equipment and
medical gas plants. Ability to work independently and under pressure, with
good organizational as well a team Ability to plan (pro-active), as well as
working in a team and to learn and comply with in-house systems and
procedures. Conversant with the requirements of the Machinery and
Occupational Health and Safety Acts, NBR and SABA 1 475. Ability to climb
under/over obstacles, climb ladders and work at heights. Ability to operate and
use required tools and equipment skillfully and safely.
DUTIES : Maintain and repair all plant and equipment at the Hospital under the
supervision of the Artisan Foreman. Perform necessary administrative
functions, train and supervise subordinates. Assist with the execution of
engineering projects and control over tools and materials. Assist Artisan
Foreman with his duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Johnson Tel No: (021) 658-5481
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/164 : SENIOR SECURITY OFFICER
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Registration with Professional council: Candidates must be registered as a
Security Officer Grade B or higher with the Security Board in terms of the
Security Industry Regulatory Authority Act (PSIRA). Experience: Appropriate
experience as a Security Supervisor. Appropriate Security Control Room
operator experience. Appropriate CCTV surveillance systems operator
experience. Contract Management experience. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) or higher driver’s licence. Physically fit. Willingness to
work shifts as set out and be available on a 24-hour basis. Must be prepared
to rotate and be allocated to various buildings of the Hospital. Must be prepared
to undergo a NIA security clearance. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
written and verbal communication skills. Knowledge of relevant prescripts,
regulations and procedures. Ability to write reports. Computer literacy
(Windows and Ms Word). CCTV surveillance and control room practice.
DUTIES : Supervise security control room and general staff management and liaise with
management. Office administration: compile rosters, administer leave,
performance monitoring, allocate duties, discipline of subordinates. Ensure
Access/Egress Control is exercised effectively and efficiently. Ensure that
effective patrolling of the buildings parking areas and the perimeter. Contract
compliance, monitoring and management of the Private Security in terms of
the SLA. Conduct investigations and complaints with regards to thefts,
undermining activities, unauthorised entries. Liaise with the SAPS and all other
law enforcement agencies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr VP September Tel No: (021) 938-6077
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/165 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (PHARMACY)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administrative experience. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good planning, organizational and time management skills.
Ability to think creatively and apply ideas. Good communication and
interpersonal skills. The ability to function under pressure and independently.
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and SharePoint).
138
DUTIES : Recording scripts received by the Pharmacy. Collection and collation of stats.
Answering telephonic and in person queries. Undertaking various other clerical
duties as and when required. Covering for colleagues.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Naicker Tel No: (021) 404-3216
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for other similar posts within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period
of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/166 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE/ADMIN
Cape Winelands District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Robertson Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competence that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
a financial environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s license. Perform standby duties, able to work under pressure and
willingness to work overtime. Support Supervisor & Relief in Admissions,
Wards, Medical Records and Outpatient departments. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Windows, Word, Excel and Access).
Knowledge of patient billing and ICD 10coding and knowledge of systems i.e.
CLINICOM, HECTIS, Accounts Receivable (AR) and BAS. Knowledge of
applicable policies - Hospital Fees memorandum Chapter 18, the Uniform
Patient Fee Schedule (UPFS), Finance Instructions & Medical Records
policies.
DUTIES : Revenue Generation. Effective and Efficient Administration Debtor Account.
Render effective Allocation Services and support the line function in the
department. Effective Human Resource Management and Development Plan.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Davids Tel No: (023) 626-8577
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. “The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within Robertson Hospital, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.”
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/167 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE/ADMIN (REVENUE/FEES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Helderberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Appropriate Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject with
experience/competencies that focus on the KRA's of the post. Experience:
Appropriate practical experience in a Hospital Fees-related environment.
Appropriate experience of Patient Administration, including the CLINICOM
System. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s licence. Willingness to
travel. Willingness to work after hours when required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to meet and to recognize and respond to problematic
matters. -Good system management skills (CLINICOM, AR, BAS and JAC).
Good interpersonal and communication skills. -Computer literacy. -Good
numerical skills. Ability to accept accountability, responsibility, work
independently.
DUTIES : Correctly assess, bill, release and submit invoices (i.e. medical aid, Subsidized,
SANDF, SAPS, DCS, MVA, COID and Foreigners). Regular follow-up of EDI-
rejections, COGNOS reports, unknown lists, medical aid systems, state
department claims (SANDF/DCS/SAPS), debt older than 60/120 days, above
R10 000, MVA/COID, payment arrangements and unreleased/suspended
139
cases. Debit Charge Entries to invoices as per UPFS and PGWG billing
procedures including ICD10 capturing on CLINICOM and AR systems. Perform
relief Cashier duties issue receipts and safe keeping of state monies. Render
administrative support to the division and Public. Liaise with, follow-up and
handle debtor queries/complaints. Daily, weekly, monthly reconciliation of state
monies between systems (i.e. cashier, sub-bank account banking FINN. BAS,
billing, debt collector), debits and credits.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Davids Tel No: (021) 810-667
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant Administration Clerk:
Fees/Revenue posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a
period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a
written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/168 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT SERVICES (ENVIRONMENTAL
HEALTH AND HYGIENE SERVICES) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administrative and support service environmental
health cleaning and hygiene services. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Extensive computer skills in MS Office (MS Word, Excel, Outlook). Excellent
administrative experience and knowledge of policies and practices. Good
interpersonal skills, organizational skills, the ability to function under pressure
and maintain confidentiality and excellent communication skills (verbal and
written). Excellent reading, writing and typing skills.
DUTIES : Provide an effective administrative service to management in environmental
Health & Hygiene Services (Linen Management, Pest Control, Healthcare risk
waste management & cleaning services. Typing of letters, reports and
documentation according to government standards. Handle documentation
according to the degree of confidentiality and maintaining an effective filing
system. Process and control of statistical information and accurate
administration management and minute taking. Effective management and
control of stock according to procurement procedures. Manage all written and
telephonic communication and queries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JJ Roberts Tel No: (021) 938-4121
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/169 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPPORT (FOOD SERVICES MANAGEMENT)
Directorate: Facilities Management
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town, M4 Building, Karl Bremmer Hospital Complex
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administration skills and experience. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid driver’s licence. Willingness to travel.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Working knowledge of Microsoft Office
(Power Point, Word, Excel, Forms, SharePoint and Outlook). A working
knowledge of the regulatory process and applicable generic administrative
procedures. Administration skills and experience in supply chain management
processes. Knowledge of contract management and administration. Excellent
computer skills required (Power Point, Word, Excel, Forms, SharePoint and
Outlook). Attention to detail and accuracy. Good typing skills.
DUTIES : Assist and support in the office with regards to administration of food services
management. Assist and support with the secretarial functions. Maintenance
and update of a food services management database Liaising with health
facilities and relevant stakeholders regarding food services management and
related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Y Thelander tel. no (021) 918-1438
140
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/170 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3
West Cast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Malmesbury CDC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as an Enrolled Nurse. Registration with Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in
nursing after registration with the SANC as an Enrolled Nurse. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as an Enrolled Nurse. Inherent requirements of the
job: Willingness to work overtime when necessary and willingness to work at
other clinics in the Sub-district. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication and interpersonal relations. Basic computer skills in MS Word,
Excel, Outlook. Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of the
Department of Health, Western Cape.
DUTIES : Provide basic clinical nursing care. Development and implementation of basic
patient care plans. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development. Community Participation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr RA Christoffels Tel No: (022) 482-2729
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Swartland Sub-District for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/171 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (X10 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 (SN1) per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 (SN 2) per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 (SN 3) per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as an Enrolled Nurse Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as Enrolled Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable nursing experience
after registration with the SANC as Enrolled Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years’ appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the
SANC as Enrolled Nurse. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work
shifts, night duty and public holidays. Annual receipt and licence to practice.
Willingness to rotate within the hospital as per operational requirements.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic communication skills (both verbal and
written. Ability to function effectively as part of a team. Good human
relationships. The ability to render nursing care of an acceptable and safe
standard.
DUTIES : Provide basic clinical nursing care under the supervision of a Professional
Nurse. Development and implementation of basic patient care. Effective
utilization of physical and financial resources. Maintain professional
141
growth/ethical standards and self-development. Commitment to, and
engagement with, the Western Cape DoH and Wellness values, and a people
centred approach to care. Leadership and good governance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Franken Tel No: (021) 658-5187
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/172 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Helderberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as Staff Nurse. Registration with Professional council: Registration
with SANC as Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum
of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
Staff Nurse with the SANC. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as Staff Nurse
with the SANC. Inherent requirement of the job: Will be required to work shifts,
night duty, weekends, public holidays as well as overtime. Willingness to rotate
between departments. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
function/make decisions independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team.
Good communication and interpersonal relationships. Basic Computer skills in
MS Word and Outlook. Knowledge of relevant nursing legislation, policies and
protocols of the Department of Health, Western Cape.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care plans. Provide basic
clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development. Participate in infection
prevention and control.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Khumalo Tel No: (021) 850-4752
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration with the
SANC (including individuals who must apply for change of registration status).
The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within Metro Health
Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/173 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (X3 POSTS)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as Staff Nurse. Registration with Professional council: Registration
142
with SANC as Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum
of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with
the SANC as Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after registration with SANC as
Staff Nurse. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts, night
and day shifts, weekends, public holidays and overtime when necessary.
Willingness to work in all wards of the hospital. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication and interpersonal relationships. Basic
computer skills in MS Word, Excel. Enhance patient care through the
implementation of SOP’s, policies, and guidelines. Ability to work under
pressure.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care. Provide basic clinical
care in a resource constrained PHC setting. Effective utilization of physical and
financial resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R de Silva Tel No: (021) 808-6103
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Stellenbosch Hospital, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.”
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/174 : HOUSEKEEPER SUPERVISOR
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate cleaning, linen and
housekeeping experience in a hospital environment. Inherent requirements of
the job: Willingness to work shifts, weekends and public holidays. Overtime
and relief work in other wards to ensure effective provision of services.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Proper working knowledge of all cleaning
and housekeeping policies, protocols, procedures and good work ethics. Good
interpersonal, organising and decision-making skills. Knowledge of safety and
hygiene standards. Knowledge of inventory/stock control. Ability to work in a
team and independently. Computer literacy (Microsoft Word and Excel).
DUTIES : Responsible for overall control, organizing, performing and coordinating tasks
related to food, linen and hygiene services. Ensure the control of cleaning,
sorting, counting, unpacking and wash/sluice linen and patient clothing.
Effective management with regard to ordering, utilization, control of cleaning,
household items and equipment. Responsible for record-keeping and
compilation of reports. Coordination of the provision of effective training
appropriate to service delivery. Effectively manage the utilisation and
supervision of resources as well related HR matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Nel Tel No: (021) 440-3203
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates will
be subjected to written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applications
will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
143
POST 32/175 : ASSISTANT ARTISAN (CARPENTRY)
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate experience in the carpentry field, general carpentry repairs and the
ability to carry out basic general carpentry tasks. Inherent requirements of the
job: A Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and own reliable transport. Ability to
work on ladders and multi-storied buildings. Willingness to work overtime and
do standby duties. Must be physically fit and healthy. Be able to cope under
pressure. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work independently and
under pressure. Ability to plan ahead (pro-active), work independently as well
as in a team and it would be required for the officer to learn and comply with
in-house systems and procedures. Strict adherence to the Occupational Health
and Safety Act.
DUTIES : Assist with the execution of carpentry projects. Maintain and repair equipment
at the hospital Assist other departments within the workshop set up. Ability to
work independently and within a team set up. Assist Artisans in the
performance of their duties, and clean areas where work has been carried out.
Complete and return repair requisitions and assist in ordering and controlling
the workshop, materials and tools. Replace and install doors, ceilings, skirting
and cupboards
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Johnson Tel No: (021) 658-5481
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/176 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT (TECHNICAL SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10/Std 8 (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate experience in a maintenance workshop within a hospital
environment. Appropriate experience in carpentry and joinery. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver's licence. Must be prepared
to work overtime and do standby duties. Physically fit to perform duties and
work at heights and in confined spaces. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to work independently and under pressure. Ability to adhere to Safety
Standards. Ability to manage conflict and problem-solving situations. Strict
adherence to the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
DUTIES : All repairs and general maintenance of plant equipment and buildings in the
hospital. Maintain plant rooms, equipment, and work areas in a clean and safe
condition. Assist Artisans with maintenance, repairs, and installations projects.
Complete and return repair requisitions and further keep record of all repairs.
Assist in ordering and controlling the materials and workshop tools.
Maintenance, repair, and manufacturing carpentry work. Train and develop
staff and clean areas where work has been carried out.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Roos Tel No: (021) 440-3192
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. “The
pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of three months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/177 : STERILISATION PRODUCTION OPERATOR (CSSD AND GAS) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal relations skills. Ability to work in a co-
144
operative way within a team context and willingness to be rotated within the
CPD department.
DUTIES : Effective application of sterilisation processes and techniques and
promote/adhere to infection control as well as health and safety regulations.
Decontaminate, pack and sterilise instruments linen and supplies. Assist with
cleaning and testing of sterilisation equipment, washing machine and
autoclaves, lift-up and pushing heavy equipment. Maintain equipment in an
optimum working condition and utilisation of resources. Use autoclaves,
washing machines and equipment/consumables in a cost-effective manner.
Monitor, control and maintain adequate stock levels, report, and assist with
investigation of lost instruments/equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Sutcliffe Tel No: (021) 404-2092
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post. Short-listed candidates may be subjected to a
compulsory competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/178 : TRADESMAN AID
Garden Route District
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Ladismith CDC, Kannaland Sub-district (Stationed at Alan Blyth Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: NQF 3 (Grade 10) or equivalent.
Experience: Appropriate knowledge of hospital plant, laundry equipment and
machinery. Inherent requirement of the job: Physically fit to perform duties and
work at heights and in confined spaces. Willingness to work overtime (day or
night) when needed and perform standby duties. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
license. Willingness to travel and work at all Public Health Institutions within
the Kannaland Sub-district. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
function independently, plan (pro-active) and work in a team. Ability to adhere
to safety standards. Ability to handle conflict and problem-solving situations.
Ability to communicate effectively both verbal and written.
DUTIES : Assist with minor routine Maintenance and elementary repairs of equipment,
plant, and tools. Assist with minor maintenance and repairs with regard to
Electrical, Mechanical, Plumping, Building and Infrastructure projects. Ensure
an organized and neat workshop / office space. Assist with Job Requisitions &
basic administrative duties and functions. Ensure that all tools and materials
are available before commencing. Support to Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Adcock Tel No: (028) 551 1010
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a competence assessment. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Garden Route District, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/179 : PORTER (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience:
Appropriate experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work
shifts and ability to report for duty at 6:30 (weekends included). Willingness to
handle bodies (corpses). Ability to handle heavy objects. Willingness to work
irregular hours as required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication skills.
DUTIES : Transport patients and corpses. Transport blood specimens from various
wards to various laboratories and vice versa. Assist with loading of patients in
and out of ambulances, vehicles, to and from, beds, trolleys, or wheelchairs
145
and vice versa. Responsible for collecting and cleaning of wheelchairs, trolleys
and blood hampers.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CB Johnson Tel No: (021) 938-5327
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/180 : FOOD SERVICES AID
Garden Route District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Alan Blyth Hospital, Kannaland Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in preparing patient meals in hospitals. Inherent
requirements of the job: Physically strong to lift heavy objects and be on their
feet the entire day. Willingness to work shifts, weekends and public holidays.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills. Self-
disciplined, motivated, sober habits, willingness to develop skills and undergo
training. Ability to read, write and interpret recipes to prepare the meals to be
served and be able to use an electronic kitchen scale. Appropriate knowledge
of basic cleaning and maintenance of equipment used in the Food Service Unit.
DUTIES : Provision of food services, including pre-preparation and preparation of normal
and special diets as well as dishing up and distribution of the meals. Assist with
the receiving and storage of perishables and groceries. Implement and Control
hygienic environment according to occupational health and safety prescripts
including infection control. Maintenance of appliances and equipment. Assist
with human resources development program for the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E. Adcock Tel No: (028) 551 1010
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Garden Route
District for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be
subjected to a practical/written assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/181 : MESSENGER (REGISTRY AND MESSENGER OFFICE SUPPORT)
Chief Directorate: Metro District Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in records (registry/archive) environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: Physically fit and able to be on your feet for long
periods. Ability to lift heavy load. Competencies (knowledge/skills): A strong
sense of confidentiality and trustworthiness. Knowledge of folder management
procedures. Good interpersonal skills. Basic computer literacy skills.
DUTIES : Collection and distribution of mail’ documents and medical records on the VBH
site. Collection and delivery duties of Pharmacy boxes, twice daily. Messenger
duties to Head Office, Cape Town and Post Office, Sita and Regional Office,
Bellville, twice a week or as requested. Ad hoc duties as and when required
from your supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Froneman Tel No: (021) 826-5864
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates will
be subjected to written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applications
will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
146
POST 32/182 : CLEANER
West Coast District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Moorreesburg Clinic
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills (Abet level 1).
Experience: Appropriate cleaning experience in a Health facility. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work at other clinics in the Sub-district.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): The ability to communicate. The ability to do
physical tasks and operate heavy duty cleaning and household equipment.
DUTIES : Responsible for cleaning duties, including sweeping, dusting, mopping,
scrubbing, polishing, refuse handling, cleaning windows and interior walls;
maintenance of general neatness and hygiene of the area. Effective and
efficient utilization and storage of cleaning material and equipment. Adhering
to safety precautions and ensure adherence to occupational health and safety
policy. Support Waste Management Render support to the Operational
Manager with general housekeeping duties such as control of cleaning and
household equipment and care of linen. Attend in-service training appropriate
to service delivery. Adheres to loyal service ethics.
ENQUIRIES : Sr H Pienaar Tel No: (022) 482-2729
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/183 : LAUNDRY AID (X5 POSTS)
Directorate: Facilities Management
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office; Laundry Services: Tygerberg Laundry
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience:
Appropriate Laundry and Linen experience in a Central Laundry setting.
Inherent requirement of the job: Physically fit to do manual labour.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills.
DUTIES : Wash, dry, fold and iron linen, clothing and other textiles. Assist with the mixing
of chemicals. Load and unload washing machines and tumble driers. Empty
soiled linen bags for sorting, counting, sealing and stacking of linen bags for
dispatching. Clean work area.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Goosen Tel No: (021) 933 0834
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/184 : LINEN STORES ASSISTANT (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Facilities Management
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office; Laundry Services: Tygerberg Laundry
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience: Appropriate
laundry experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Physically fit to do manual
labour. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills.
DUTIES : Load/offload soiled/clean linen bags on and off trucks. Pack shelves in linen
bank and packing of Linen for despatching. Empty soiled linen bags. Sort and
count linen. Load and offload trolleys and push trolleys. Load linen bags on
conveyer belt and on overhead rails. Clean work area.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Goosen Tel No: (021) 933-0834
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/185 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (20 SESSIONS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(Contract until 31 March 2026)
SALARY : Grade 1: R646 per hour
147
Grade 2: R737 per hour
Grade 3: R853 per hour
CENTRE : Helderberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Family Physician. Registration with Professional council: Registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Family Medicine. Experience: Grade 1:
None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist. Grade 2: A
minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign health professional
council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist,
Family Physician. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as
Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognized foreign
professional health council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a
Medical Specialist, Family Physician. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness and ability to travel for outreach
services. Availability for flexible scheduling of sessions (to meet service needs).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Expertise in managing complex chronic
diseases at district hospital level. Ability to lead and implement clinical
governance processes. Familiarity with HIV, TB, NCDs, palliative care and
forensic reporting. Comfort in outreach settings (clinics, old age homes).
Teaching and mentorship skills. Research literacy (design, support, and/or
execution). Strong interpersonal, communication and time-management skills.
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, internet-based platforms).
DUTIES : Provide expert-level outpatient care for patients with complex chronic
conditions (e.g. multimorbidity, polypharmacy, unstable NCDs, TB/HIV). Lead
clinical governance initiatives, morbidity & mortality meetings, and quality
improvement cycles. Contribute to registrar and intern training. -Support clinical
research, audit and publication in line with the hospital’s academic goals.
Participate in community-based outreach (clinics, residential facilities, homes
for the aged). Provide clinical services and support within the hospital
ecosystem (EC, inpatients, step-downs). Guide palliative care and forensic
reporting processes. Engage in intersectoral collaboration and integrated
district health initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. W Viljoen Tel No: (021) 850 4705
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. -This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for vacancies within Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure for a period
of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
POST 32/186 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (INTERNAL MEDICINE) SESSIONAL
(10 HOURS PER WEEK)
Chief Directorate Metro Health Services
(Contract until 31 March 2026)
SALARY : Grade 1: R482 per hour
Grade 2: R550 per hour
Grade 3: R636 per hour
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
148
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s license. Completion of Fellowship of the College of Physicians of South
Africa FCP (SA). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Be able to manage
common medical conditions presenting to the Department for admission. Be
able to perform procedures such as IV lines, ICD, CVP insertion. Be able to
perform resuscitation including cardioversion and ETT insertion. Be familiar
with provincial and national treatment guidelines for common medical
conditions Basic computer literacy skills. Communicate well with colleagues
including arranging referrals to the tertiary centre.
DUTIES : Manage acute medical admissions and follow up care of inpatients in the form
of consultant post intake and follow up ward rounds. Provide consultation
service to other departments of patients assessed by Registrars and Medical
Officers. Supervise Interns. Teach medical students rotating through
Department of Medicine in the form of bedside tutorials. Take consultant ward
rounds for patients admitted by junior staff members. Liaise with family
members of admitted patients. Financially awareness regarding use of
radiological and laboratory investigations.
ENQUIRIES : Dr T Crede Tel No: (021) 377 4391
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status) The pool of applicants will be considered for
similar posts within the Department for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
DEPARTMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
149
OTHER POSTS
POST 32/187 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ACQUISITION AND CONTRACT MANAGEMENT REF
NO: DOI 122/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3 year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification); A minimum
of 3 years related supply chain experience at a supervisory/management level;
A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that
restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also
apply. Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of the following:
Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and best practices that have a
bearing on the line functions; Information systems that aid in the management
of knowledge and information pertaining to the line function; Project
management; Operational management practices; Procurement and tendering
processes; Policy development, and operational management, monitoring and
review processes; Modern systems of governance and administration; Public
service procedures, processes and systems; Regional and local political,
economic and social affairs impacting on the provincial government of the
Western Cape; Constitutional, legal and institutional arrangements governing
the South African public sector; Public finance, human resources and discourse
management processes; Public Finance Management Act, National and
Provincial Treasury Regulations, other financial policies, prescripts, directives
and collective agreements; Functioning of the province and the activities of
sister departments/related functional areas; Policies of the government of the
day; Labour Relations legislation and regulations; Performance management
in general; Skills in the following: Analysing; Leading and Supervising;
Persuading and Influencing; Planning and Organising; Deciding and Initiating
Action; Working with People; Delivering results and meeting customer
expectations; Relating and Networking.
DUTIES : Manage departmental acquisitions; Manage departmental SC Contracts;
Provide support to potential service providers, bid committee members and line
managers; Plan and manage the work of and account for the overall
performance of the Sub-directorate; People Management; Financial
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Pauline van der Merwe Tel No: (021) 483 8915
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 32/188 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: FINANCE ANDPROJECT ADMINISTRATION
(GEORGE) REF NO: DOI 123/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification) with accounting and/or
Mathematics as a passed subject. Competencies: Knowledge and
understanding of the following: Good verbal and written communication skills;
Computer literacy in MS Excel and MS Word; Interpersonal relation; Problem-
solving; Decision making; Ability to work under pressure, independently as well
as in a team and perform routine tasks.
DUTIES : Capture and process payments, claims and journals accurately and
immediately on the correct system (BAS, EBS, PCS, LOG'S); Reconciliation of
payments with STUBBS; Capturing of LOG I ‘sand LOG 1 1's on Logis; Receive
and deposit of departmental funds; Comprehensive recordkeeping of all
payments, claims and supporting documentation; Address enquiries from
consultants, contractors, technical and professional staff; Timeous
procurement of goods and services; Advertising and adjudication of RFQ's on
ePS; Comprehensive record keeping of all documentation; Assist with ad hoc
administrative task required from time to time within the George office;
Obtaining compliance reports on CSD, WCSEB and CIDB; Ensuring that GG
Trip authorities are authorized, subsidized vehicles claims are checked,
scanned, uploaded and submitted timeously to SCM; Act as secretariat at
meetings (Technical, Staff meetings, Ad-hoc; Schedule meeting appointment;
Follow-up on invoices, banking details and proof of attendance; Monitor and
provide evidence for your own work performance; Provide the required and
150
prescribed performance data and information to your supervisor; Maintain
stock register, monitor usage and report obvious or suspected misuse; Follow
up on outstanding orders and provide feedback; Order and issue stationary,
equipment and consumable items in accordance with departmental prescripts
for George Technical Services and Workshop; Assist with stock take and
ensure adequate stock of general items; Ensure that stock is kept locked and
that losses are prevented; Timeous procurement of goods and services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Cronje Tel No: (044) 813 2805
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 32/189 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK: FINANCE AND PROJECT
ADMINISTRATION (GEORGE) REF NO: DOI 124/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification). Competencies:
Knowledge and understanding of the following: Good verbal and written
communication skills; Computer literacy in MS Excel and MS Word;
Interpersonal relation; Problem-solving; Decision making; Ability to work under
pressure, independently as well as in a team and perform routine tasks.
DUTIES : Capture and process payments, claims and journals accurately and
immediately on the correct system (BAS, EBS, PCS, LOGIS); Reconciliation of
payments with STUBBS; Comprehensive record keeping of all payments,
claims and supporting documentation; Address enquiries from consultants,
contractors, technical and professional staff; Advertising and adjudication of
RFQs on ePS; Comprehensive record keeping of ail documentation; Assist with
ad hoc administrative tasks required from time to time within the George office;
Obtaining of compliance reports on CSD, WCSEB and CIDB; Act as secretariat
at meetings (Technical, Staff meetings, Ad-hoc); Schedule meeting
appointments; Follow up on invoices and banking details; Monitor and provide
evidence for your own work performance; Provide the required and prescribed
performance data and information to your supervisor; Ensure Compensation
Events are captured on EBS; Checking invoices for correct information; Save
electronic copies of invoices and Compensation Events on My Content & EBS;
Assist with the maintaining of Scheduled and Operational Maintenance
projects register per financial year; Upload CE Son EBS and My Content and
Checking CE rates on ad hoc basis.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Cronie Tel No: (044) 813 2805
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 32/190 : CLEANER: CLEANING AND FOOD AID SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO:
DOI 125/2025
SALARY : R138 486 - R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Ability to read and write/Adult Basic Education and Training (ABET 2/Grade 5).
Competencies: Knowledge of the Occupational Health and Safety Act and
relevant Regulations; Understanding of how to handle cleaning products safely,
including harsh chemicals; Ability to operate cleaning tools, such as steam
cleaners, vacuum cleaners and floor buffers; Ability to deal with variety.
DUTIES : Responsible for cleaning duties i.e., sweeping, dusting, emptying bins,
mopping, scrubbing and polishing, cleaning windows, deep cleaning of toilets,
general refuge, maintenance of general neatness and hygiene (adhering to
OHS) daily; Effective use maintenance and safekeeping of supplies and
equipment and cost-effective use of resources/consumables; Attend Inservice
training and render support to the supervisor with regards to general cleaning
duties.
ENQUIRIES : Claudia Jacobs Tel No: (021) 483 8921
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
151
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful.
WESTERN CAPE MOBILITY DEPARTMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 32/191 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC SUPPORT, REF NO: WCMD
18/2024R1
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Strategic Management, Transport Policy or Transport
Economics; A minimum of 3 years appropriate experience in a strategic
environment; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to
transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Strategic
planning and reporting processes; People Management and Financial
Management; Relevant legislation and policy frameworks; Research and policy
environment; Strategic business planning tools; Project management; Skills
needed: Communication (written and verbal); Proven computer literacy (MS
Office packages).
DUTIES : Provide support to the compilation of the departmental strategies and plan
(Strategic Plan and Annual Performance Plans (APP), Annual Operations
Plans, Business Plans); Provide support with the development and alignment
of departmental strategic objectives and performance indicators with national
and provincial outcomes and objectives; Provide support to the compilation of
departmental annual, mid and end reports; Provide support to the Operations
Management Framework /Service Delivery Improvement Programme;
Managerial functions; It will be advantageous to have an appropriate post-
graduate qualification in Strategic
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mndita Tel No: (021) 0972/ 2403
POST 32/192 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LAND TRANSPORT SYSTEMS REF NO: WCMD
77/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/ B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in information systems, business analysis/management and
project management; A minimum of 3 years relevant supervisory level
152
experience; A valid code B (or higher) driving licence. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and
best practices that have a bearing on the line functions; Transport related
regulatory, legislation policies and frameworks; Land transport systems and/or
ICT systems; Transport related information services; Integrated Transport Hub
(ITH) as a central hub for information exchange; Optimisation of data
management processes; Information systems that aid in the management of
knowledge and information pertaining to the line function; Project
management; Operational management practices; Skills needed: Numeracy;
Literacy; Computer Literacy; Written and verbal communication; Project
Management; Data Analysis; Accounting, Finance and Audit; Analytical
thinking; Planning; Organising; Problem Solving; Conflict Resolution;
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting.
DUTIES : ITH Data and Technology Management; Data Integration and Management;
Stakeholder Engagement and Collaboration; Risk Management and
Compliance; Managerial Functions; It will be advantageous to have experience
in Land transport systems and/or ICT systems.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Hendricks Tel No: (021) 484 0763
POST 32/193 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LOGISTICS AND ASSET MANAGEMENT REF
NO: WCMD 78/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in Supply
Chain Management or Financial Management; A minimum of 3 years related
logistic or financial management experience at supervisory level; A valid (Code
B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving
abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Legislation, regulatory
frameworks, policies and best practices that have a bearing on the line
functions; Information systems that aid in the management of knowledge and
information pertaining to the line function; Project management; Operational
management practices; Procurement and tendering processes; Policy
development, and operational management, monitoring and review processes;
Public service procedures, processes and systems; Public Finance
Management Act, National Treasury Regulations, Provincial Treasury
Instructions, other financial policies, prescripts, directives and collective
agreements. Skills needed: Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Written
and verbal communication; Project Management; Accounting, Finance and
Audit.
DUTIES : Administer and ensure effective and efficient management of Movable Assets;
Coordinate the safekeeping and distribution of Movable Assets; Coordinate the
disposal of Movable Assets; Managerial functions; It will be advantageous to
have working experience in LOGIS, BAS and Electronic Purchasing System
(EPS) or related system. Comprehensive Administrative expertise spanning
Supply Chain Management and Finance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CL Gelderbloem Tel No: (021) 483 2167
POST 32/194 : PRINCIPAL PROVINCIAL INSPECTOR: LAW ENFORCEMENT
OPERATIONS (SWELLENDAM) REF NO: WCMD 79/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior certificate or equivalent qualification); Must be in possession
of a Basic Traffic Diploma; A minimum of 6 years’ experience in the field; A valid
code A and EC driving licence; No Criminal record. Competencies: Knowledge
of the following: Operational functioning of the Directorate Traffic Law
Enforcement; National Road Traffic Act, 1996 (Act 93 of1996); Road Traffic
Amendment Act, 2008 (Act 64 of 2008); Firearms Control Act, 2000 (Act 60 of
2000); Criminal Procedure Act, 1977 (Act 51 of 1977); Firearms Control
Regulations, 2004; National Road Traffic Regulations, 2000; Dimensional and
Mass Limitations and the Requirements for Abnormal Load Vehicles (TRH 11);
Guidelines from the Director of Public Prosecutions. Skills needed: Numeracy;
Literacy; Computer Literacy; Written and verbal communication; Project
Management; Accounting, Finance and Audit; Economic, Financial and
Statistical Analysis; Legal Administration; Planning; Organising; Leadership;
153
Monitoring; People Management; Investigations; Motivational; Analytical;
Operational/Project Management; Negotiation; Interpretation; Legal Evidential;
Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Manage and enforce Road Traffic, Public Passenger, Transport Legislation and
other relevant legislations; Manage joint law enforcement activities and
projects (co-operative governance); Manage resources and provide leadership
and direction to all subordinates; Identify and manage risks; Manage the
performance of all administrative activities and related duties; Supervisory
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr F Stuart Tel No: (028) 514 1185
POST 32/195 : CHIEF ACCOUNTING CLERK: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: WCMD
81/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification); A minimum of 6 years
experience in a financial accounting and/or management accounting working
environment. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Legislative
framework governing the Public Service; Departmental accounting services;
Public Service financial legislations, procedures and processes, National
Treasury Regulations, Provincial Treasury Instructions, Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), 1999,(DORA, PSA, PSR,PPPFA, Financial
Manual); Financial functions, practices as well as the ability to capture data,
operate computer and collate financial statistics; State accountant duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting
statistics; Working procedures in terms of the working environment; Project
management; Public service procedures, processes and systems. Skills
needed: Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Written and verbal
communication; Project Management; Accounting, Finance and Audit;
Economic, Financial and Statistical Analysis; Legal Administration; Planning;
Organising; Problem-solving; Report-writing; Record Keeping; Interpersonal
Relations; Flexibility; Teamwork; Accuracy; Aptitude of Figures; Ability to
perform routine tasks; Ability to operate office equipment; Ability to work under
pressure; Willingness to work irregular hours and meet tight deadlines;
Willingness to regularly travel away from office.
DUTIES : Bookkeepers; Banking; Monitoring and reporting on revenue and receivables;
Supervisory functions; It will be advantageous to have working knowledge of
general information support systems such as PERSAL and BAS.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PS Marinus at Peter.Marinus@westerncape.gov.za.
POST 32/196 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: OPERATING LICENSE ADMINISTRATION
(ATHLONE) REF NO: WCMD 85/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department
REQUIREMENTS : 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification); A
minimum of 1 year administrative support experience in an operating license
processing working environment. Competencies: Knowledge in the following:
National Land Transport Act (Act No.5 of 2009); Road Transportation Act (Act
No. 74 of1977); Western Cape Road Transportation Amendment Law Act (Act
No. 8 of 1996); National Land Transport Regulations of 2009; Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), National Treasury Regulations, Provincial Treasury
Instructions, guidelines; Processing of applications for operating licenses;
Preparation of cases and the presentation thereof at adjudication meetings;
Preparation of cases for the cancellation of operating licenses; Information and
Record Management/Administration; Understanding in how to notify operators
of renewals. Skills needed: Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Written
and verbal communication; Project Management; Accounting, Finance and
Audit; Economic, Financial and Statistical Analysis; Legal Administration;
Reporting; Problem-solving; Planning; Organising; Research; Ability to work
under pressure; Willingness to work irregular hours and meet tight deadlines.
DUTIES : Render support with the processing of operating license applications; Perform
communication duties; Coordinate attendance of committee hearings; Render
effective utilisation of the PTRS System; Render supervisory functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Abrahams Tel No: (021) 483 0240
154
DEPARTMENT OF PREMIER
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates must make themselves available to be interviewed at
a date, time and place as decided by the selection panel. Please ensure that
you submit your application on or before the closing date as no late applications
will be considered. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Kindly note that technical support is only available
from Monday to Friday from 8:00 to 16.00. Should you experience any
difficulties with your online application you may contact the helpline at 0861
370 214. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that
intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will
be communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive
on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS Competency Assessment tools. The nominated
candidate will be required to complete the Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme before they may be appointed into this post. The purpose of the
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, which is a public service specific
training programme applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is
to ensure that potential SMS members have a background on processes and
procedures linked to the SMS. The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme
is 120 notional hours (15 days). Full details may be sourced by the following
link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-preentryprogramme/
Furthermore, thanks to the huge public interest we receive many applications
for our positions, and as such will not be able to respond personally to all
applications. Therefore, should you not hear from us within 10 weeks from
close of advert please consider your application unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 32/197 : DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC COMMUNICATION REF NO: DOTP 74/2025
(42-Month Contract Post)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13)
CENTRE : Department of Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA.; A
minimum of 5 years’ experience at middle/senior managerial level; Successful
completion of the Certificate for entry into the SMS(Senior Management
Service) prior to appointment: The nominated candidate will be required to
complete the Senior Management Pré-entry Programme (Nyukela) before the
candidate may be appointed into this post .Competencies: Knowledge: Proven
knowledge of communication, media management, public relations, public
participation and public education; Proven knowledge of communication
strategy development, policy development, strategy management and
monitoring and review processes; Proven knowledge of standard and
advanced communication channels; Proven knowledge of and working
experience with the latest trends in the communication industry; Proven
knowledge of and working experience with the legislation, regulatory
frameworks, policies and best practices that have a bearing on the line
functions; Proven knowledge and understanding of information systems that
aid in the management of knowledge and information; Proven knowledge and
understanding of programme and project management; Proven knowledge and
understanding of the global, regional and local political, economic and social
affairs impacting on the provincial government of the Western Cape; Proven
knowledge and understanding of Constitutional, legal and institutional
arrangements governing the South African public-sector; Proven knowledge
and understanding of public finance, human resources and discourse
management processes; Proven knowledge and understanding of the policies
of the government of the day. Skills: Strong interpretive, analytical and
conceptualisation skills; Strong strategic planning and superlative verbal and
written communication skills; Strong inter-personal and relationship
155
management skills; Planning, organising and people management skills; The
ability to develop and maintain networks relevant to the task environment;
Numeracy and accuracy skills; Computer literacy skills.
DUTIES : Line Management: Ensure that strategic management, guidance and advice is
provided in respect of the facilitation of ongoing against pre-determined key
measurable objectives and standards; Report to the Chief of Staff on a regular
basis on the activities of the Directorate and on matters of substantial
importance relating to operational management support; Monitor and ensure
compliance with relevant legislation and prescripts in respect of adequate and
appropriate record keeping of the activities of the Directorate, and of the
resources (people, finances and assets) employed by it; Foster and promote a
culture of innovation within the Directorate, and the Department; Diligently
perform all duties assigned to the post of Director; People Management and
Empowerment: Participate in the recruitment of employees in the numbers and
grades appropriate to ensure the achievement of the Directorate’s Business
Plan; Motivate, train and guide employees within the Directorate, to achieve
and maintain excellence in service delivery; Actively manage the performance,
evaluation and rewarding of employees within the Directorate. Financial
Management: Manage participation in the budgeting process at Directorate
level; Ensure the preparation of the Annual and Adjustment Budgets for the
Directorate; Assume direct accountability for the efficient, economic and
effective control and management of the Directorate’s budget and expenditure;
Ensure that full and proper records of the financial affairs of the Directorate are
kept in accordance with the prescribed norms and standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T Taverna-Turisan (Tony.Taverna-Turisan@westerncape.gov.za)
OTHER POST
POST 32/198 : PSYCHOLOGIST REF NO: DOTP 71/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R872 709 per annum, OSD as prescribed
CENTRE : Department of Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A Master’s Degree in Industrial Psychology; Compulsory registration as
Psychologist (Industrial) with the Health Professions Council of South Africa; A
minimum of 3 years post - registration experience as Industrial Psychologist
with the HPCSA. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Group dynamics
(roles and stages of group development); Health Professions Act,
1974;HPCSA Code of Ethics for Professionals; HPCSA training requirements;
Scope of practice for Psychologists; Maintenance of professional registration
through participation in continuous professional development; Research
methods and statistics (action research, quantitative and qualitative);
Mentoring and coaching practices; Project management; Protection of
Personal Information Act, 2013 Key elements of policies, frameworks, norms
and standards on organisational performance; Labour Relations. Skills
needed: Analytical; Change management; Conceptual, interpretive and
formulation; Conflict resolution; Diagnostic; Diversity management; Facilitation
and process consultation; Influencing; Innovative; Problem-solving;
Intervention design; Interviewing; Leadership; Listening; Mentoring and
coaching; Motivation; Negotiation; Networking; Planning and organising;
Presentation; Professional judgment and reasoning ability; Project
management; Research; Strong people skills and relationship building;
Teambuilding and strong interpersonal skills; Verbal and written
communication.
DUTIES : Develop, guide and advise on complex theories and models in order to
enhance behavioural, group and organisational behaviour; Responsible to
perform psychometric and other assessments in order to determine the
potential and/or suitability for training, development and recruitment and to
determine individual, group and organisational effectiveness; Assess
organisational behaviour dynamics; Design and develop assessment tools;
Advise on institutional improvement and development based on diagnostic
surveys and assessments; Advise on development of policies; Report on IP
research; Develop and Execute culture and leadership development
interventions to improve organisational performance; Apply paradigms,
theories and models to enhance organisational behaviour; Facilitate and
implement Western Cape Government Transversal Culture Programmes;
Project management and Reporting; It will be advantageous to have the
following: Experience in Leadership and Culture Interventions ; A valid (Code
156
B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving
abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Roux Tel No: (021) 466 9713 /082 906 5530
DEPARTMENT OF PROVINCIAL TREASURY
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 32/199 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LOCAL GOVERNMENT REVENUE AND
EXPENDITURE - GROUP 1 REF NO: PT 26/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in Financial
Management, Economics, Accounting or Public Finance; A minimum of 3 years’
experience in accounting, Budget and financial management environment; A
valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Municipal budget process and
procedures; In Year Monitoring process and procedures; Implementation of the
m SCO Are form in municipalities; Financial norms and standards as well as
Acts such as MFMA, PFMA, DoRA, MBRR and Circulars (local and provincial).
Skills needed: Data analysis; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Written and verbal
communication; Project Management; Accounting, Finance and Audit;
Analytical thinking; Strategic thinking; Policy implementation (Impact on
system); Conflict resolution; Monitoring, evaluation and reporting;
Presentation; Problem solving; Research.
DUTIES : In-year monitoring reports evaluated on the implementation of municipal
budgets in order to enhance conformance, accountability, data integrity,
sustainability and efficiencies in the municipalities as per section 71 and 72 of
the MFMA; Monitor the implementation of the budgeting framework by
municipalities and provide technical support to delegated municipalities;
Manage and coordinate the IGR within and across Provincial Treasury, other
departments and relevant stakeholders to improve conformance and
performance in municipalities; Plan and manage the work of and account for
the overall performance of the Sub directorate; People and Financial
Management; It will be advantageous to have experience in the following:
Dissemination of data and information; Report writing and analysis of financial
information; Management experience.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Neethling Tel No: (021) 483 9186
POST 32/200 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTING
GROUP 1 REF NO: PT 33/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in Financial
Accounting or related 3; A minimum of 3 years relevant experience of
accounting practices in a finance department; A valid (Code B or higher) driving
licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of
157
the following: Legislation, the PFMA accounting frameworks GRAP, MCS, any
other applicable accounting frameworks, policies and best practices that have
a bearing on the line functions; Strong financial accounting background
specifically in GRAP and MCS accounting frameworks; Ability to work under
pressure and meet deadlines; Attention to detail and good interpretation of
numbers; Written and verbal communication skills; Good report writing skills; It
will be advantageous to have a Postgraduate qualification in accounting.
DUTIES : Provide support to departments and entities on the application of accounting
frameworks; Compile, consolidate and table the Annual Consolidated Financial
Statements (ACFS); Provide training regarding accounting standards and
compilation of financial statements; Monitor compliance to accounting norms
and standards, financial reporting guidelines in the provincial departments and
entities; Performing Managerial functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. I Jurams Tel No: (082) 590 5241
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 32/201 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ADMIN SUPPORT (VREDELUS) REF NO:
DSD 66/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year postschool qualification/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1 year appropriate experience. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Government systems; Government policies;
Constitution, legal and institutional arrangements governing the SA public
sector. Skills needed: Analytical and systems thinking skills; Conceptual and
formulation skills; written and verbal communication skills; Computer literacy
skills.
DUTIES : Provide effective office administration and management support services to the
Component; Provide budget support to the component; Maintain and assist
with implementation of the component’s monitoring and evaluation system.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Benting Tel No: (021) 931 0236
POST 32/202 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER (MONITORING): CRIME PREVENTION AND
SUPPORT REF NO: DSD 68/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-degree (equivalent or higher qualification); A minimum
of 1year relevant experience. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Monitoring and Evaluation systems; Applicable legislation; Norms and
standards; Information management; Public administration. Skills needed:
Creative thinking; Problem analysis; Problem-solving and decision making;
Planning and organising; Written and verbal communication skills; Applying
technology; Continuous improvement; Diversity management; Communication
and Information management.
DUTIES : Assist with the development of monitoring and review systems; Conduct
Financial and Governance assessments for existing and new NPO’s; Monitor
158
and review services rendered by the NPO in line with the Provincial /National
policy frameworks; Administration of the Non-Financial Data (NFD)process.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Palmer Tel No: (021) 483 4405
POST 32/203 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER (MONITORING): QUALITY ASSURANCEAND
MONITORING REF NO: DSD 69/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-degree (equivalent or higher qualification); A minimum
of 1 year relevant experience. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Monitoring and Evaluation systems; Applicable legislation; Norms and
standards; Information management; Public administration. Skills needed:
Creative thinking; Decision making; Problem analysis; Problem-solving and
decision making; Planning and organising; Written and verbal communication
skills; Applying technology; Continuous improvement; Diversity management;
Communication and Information management.
DUTIES : Assist with the development of monitoring and review systems; Conduct
Financial and Governance assessments for existing and new NPO’s; Monitor
and review services rendered by the NPO in line with the Provincial /National
policy frameworks; Administration of the Non-Financial Data (NFD) process;
Assist with the development of monitoring and review systems; Conduct
Financial and Governance assessments for existing and new NPO’s and Own
Centres.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Palmer Tel No: (021) 483 4405
POST 32/204 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER (MONITORING): SUBSTANCE ABUSE REF
NO: DSD 70/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-degree (equivalent or higher qualification); A minimum
of 1 year relevant experience. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Monitoring and Evaluation systems; Applicable legislation; Norms and
standards; Information management; Public administration. Skills needed:
Creative thinking; Decision making; Problem analysis; Problem-solving and
decision making; Planning and organising; Written and verbal communication
skills; Applying technology; Continuous improvement; Diversity management;
Communication and Information management.
DUTIES : Assist with the development of monitoring and review systems; Conduct
Financial and Governance assessments for existing and new NPO’s; Monitor
and review services rendered by the NPO in line with the Provincial /National
policy frameworks; Administration of the Non-Financial Data (NFD) process.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Isaacs Tel No: (021) 483 8442
POST 32/205 : EDUCATION OFFICER: EDUCATION REF NO: DSD 72/2025 (POSTS
AVAILABLE IN VARIOUS LOCATIONS)
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year post-school qualification; Registration with SACE as a
professional educator; A minimum of 3 years experience as an Educationalist/
Educator; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities
that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may
also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Applicable policies and
procedures; Public service procedures; Labour Relations; Financial
Management; Project Management; Interpret and apply policies and
procedures. Skills needed: Problem solving, sound budgeting, planning,
facilitation, influencing and interpersonal relations; Written and verbal
communication; Planning and organising; Learning and researching; Relating
and networking; Adapting and responding to change; Adhering to principles
and values; Analysing.
DUTIES : Implement Educational Programmes at Facilities in Accordance with
Curriculum Requirements and Departmental Legislation; Implement facility
policies and procedures to enhance safe care/custody and development of
residents (MDT, incident reporting, behaviour management, unauthorised
articles etc.); Perform administrative functions; Continuous Professional
159
Development; Keep up to date with new developments in the social work and
social welfare fields.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Jonkerman Tel No: (021) 8266040
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 32/206 : SOCIAL WORKER: SERVICES TO FAMILIES REF NO: DSD 71/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R325 200 – R382 374per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 2: R397 119 – R459 996 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 3: R477 564 – R561 378 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 4: R585 441 – R725 754 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in Social Work (Bachelor of Social Work) that
allows professional registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions as Social Worker; Registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions as a Social Worker; Grade 1: No
experience; Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience in Social
Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions; Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions; Grade 4: A minimum of 30
years appropriate experience in Social Work after registration as a Social
Worker with the South African Council for Social Service Professions.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Supervision Framework for Social
Workers; Human behaviour and social systems and skills to intervene at the
points where people interact with their environments in order to promote social
well-being; Social work theory and interventions; Information and Knowledge
Management; Protocol and professional ethics; Relevant legislations, policies
and prescripts (norms and standards); Social dynamics, work values and
principles; Developing and empowering others; It will be advantageous to have
a valid Code B (or higher) driving licence; Regulatory and Policy Knowledge:
Understanding of NPO registration requirements and regulatory frameworks;
Provincial and National legislative and policy frameworks related to social
services; Regulatory and Policy Knowledge. Skills in the following: Challenge
structural sources of poverty, inequality, oppression, discrimination and
exclusion; Written and verbal communication; Report-writing; Self-
management; Motivation; Good planning and organizing; Problem solving and
analytical; Computer literacy; Presentation and facilitation; Client orientation
and customer focus; Ability and competence to assist, develop, advocate for,
and empower individuals, families, groups, organisations and communities to
enhance their social functioning and their problem-solving capabilities; Ability
to promote, restore, maintain, advocate for and enhance the functioning of
individuals, families, groups and communities by enabling them to accomplish
tasks, prevent and alleviate distress and use resources effectively;
Understanding and ability to provide social work services towards protecting
people who are vulnerable, at risk and unable to protect themselves; Ability to
mentor and coach Social Workers Grade 1; Monitoring and Evaluation Skills:
Ability to track and assess NPO performance against targets and service
standards; Competence in analysing Non-Financial Data(NFD) and
performance information; Ability to monitor implementation of Service Delivery
Improvement Plans; Problem-Solving and Decision-Making: Capacity to
identify service gaps or non-compliance and propose corrective actions; Ability
to respond rapidly and appropriately to complaints or concerns;
Communication and Interpersonal Skills: Effective written and verbal
communication for reporting, advising, and liaising with NPOs; Ability to build
constructive relationships with NPO staff, communities, and colleagues; Ethics
and Professionalism: Uphold integrity, accountability, and ethical standards in
all interactions; Maintain confidentiality and transparency in reporting and
decision-making; Organisational and Administrative Skills: Efficient
management of data, reports, and documentation; Ability to plan, prioritize, and
coordinate monitoring visits or follow-up activities; Monitoring and Evaluation
Skills; Problem-Solving and Decision-Making; Interpersonal Skills; Ethics and
Professionalism; Organisational and Administrative.
DUTIES : Render a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection and
development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities
160
through the relevant programmes (Case work, groupwork and Community
work). Attend to any other matters that could result in, or stem from, social
instability in any form; Supervise and Support Social Auxiliary Workers;
Continuous Professional Development. Keep up to date with new
developments in the social work and social welfare fields; Perform all the
administrative functions required of the job; Ensure NPO comply with
registration requirements and relevant regulatory frameworks; Monitor and
review services delivered by NPOs to ensure alignment with Provincial and
National legislative and policy frameworks; Administer Non-Financial Data
(NFD) and performance information processes; Monitor the implementation of
Service Delivery Improvement Plans; Respond promptly to complaints,
enquiries, or concerns raised regarding NPOs or programme activities; Ensure
NPOs comply with registration requirements and relevant regulatory
frameworks; Monitor and review services delivered by NPOs to ensure
alignment with Provincial and National legislative and policy frameworks;
Administer Non-Financial Data (NFD) and performance information processes;
Monitor the implementation of Service Delivery Improvement Plans; Respond
promptly to complaints, enquiries, or concerns raised regarding NPOs or
programme activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Payne Tel No: (021) 483 5798
POST 32/207 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: VICTIM EMPOWERMENT REF NO: DSD
65/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies:
Relevant job knowledge; Skills needed: Literacy; Numeracy; Presentation;
Decision –making; Computer literacy; Interpersonal Skills; Flexibility; Planning
and organising; Written and verbal communication; It will be advantageous to
have a valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that
restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also
apply.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services; Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component; Provide personnel administration clerical
support services within the component; Provide financial administration
support services in the component; It will be advantageous to have relevant
experience.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Botha Tel No: (021) 483 4303
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 32/208 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOODS REF NO: DSD
67/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies:
Relevant job knowledge; Skills needed: Literacy; Numeracy; Presentation;
Decision –making; Computer literacy; Interpersonal Skills; Flexibility; Planning
and organising; Written and verbal communication.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services; Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component; Provide personnel administration clerical
support services within the component; Provide financial administration
support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Arnolds Tel No: (021) 483 6657
POST 32/209 : CHILD AND YOUTH CARE TEAM LEADER: PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
REF NO: DSD 83/2024 R1 (VARIOUS POSTS AVAILABLE IN VARIOUS
LOCATIONS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R203 748 – R230 700 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 2: R240 147 – R282 342 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification); A minimum of 7 years
appropriate experience in child and youth care work after obtaining the required
161
qualification; A valid code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Developmental programmes and interventions; Clerical/
administrative procedures; Rules and procedures of the Care Centre;
Professional norms and standards; Professional ethics. Skills in the following:
Proven computer literacy; Written and verbal communication; Ability to
intervene and resolve conflict; Report writing; Presentation and facilitation;
Planning and organising; Work effectively with social workers and members of
multi-sectoral teams in social service delivery.
DUTIES : Serve as a team leader for child and youth care workers during a shifts;
Oversee the following: Admission and related activities of residents to the
facility; Access of residents to medical services; Implementation of planned
developmental, recreational and therapeutic programmes; Basic life space
work; Continuous supervision; Facilitate handover of shifts; Undertake
inspections during a shifts and report on incidents and problems identified;
Perform administrative work relevant to the job; Oversee the completion of
daily registers e.g. log books, medication registers, incident reports etc.;
Ensure that attendance registers are signed and kept up to date; Perform all
the clerical functions required; Render care services to residents; Continuous
professional development; It will be advantageous to have registration as a
auxiliary or above Child and Youth Care Practitioner; It will be advantageous to
have Registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP).
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Benting Tel No: (021) 931 0236
162