PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 42 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 14 NOVEMBER 2025
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge
and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH
IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative
action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied.
Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the
filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment
in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
AGRICULTURE A 03 - 08
CIVILIAN SECRETARIAT FOR POLICE SERVICE B 09 - 10
DEFENCE C 11 - 26
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR D 27 - 30
FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT E 31 - 35
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING F 36 - 53
INDEPENDENT POLICE INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE G 54 - 55
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT H 56 - 60
NATIONAL TREASURY I 61 - 67
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE J 68 - 82
OFFICE OF THE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION K 83 - 86
PLANNING, MONITORING AND EVALUATION L 87 - 89
SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT M 90
WATER AND SANITATION N 91 - 102
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
EASTERN CAPE O 103 - 127
FREE STATE P 128 - 134
GAUTENG Q 135 - 140
KWAZULU NATAL R 141 - 149
LIMPOPO S 150 - 153
MPUMALANGA T 154 - 196
NORTHERN CAPE U 197 - 199
NORTH WEST V 200 - 201
WESTERN CAPE W 202 - 231
2
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (DOA)
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. Shortlisted
applicants for the advertised vacancies will undergo two pre-entry
assessments: a practical assessment and an integrity assessment, both of
which form part of the selection criteria after the interview, the selection
committee will recommend candidates for a generic management competency
assessment, as per the Department of public Service and Administration
(DPSA) directives. The assessment will evaluate candidates’ managerial
competencies using standardised tools. NB: Please note that false or
fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will be reported to the South
African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case shall be opened.
Applications: Please submit your application before the closing date as late
applications will not be considered. Do not submit duplicate applications. If
applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for each post. Due to
high volumes, the Department will not acknowledge receipt of applications. If
you have not heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application
to be unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DOA is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
OTHER POSTS
POST 42/01 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (SUPERVISOR) (PUBLIC PRIVATE
PARTNERSHIP) REF NO: 3/3/1/01/2025
Directorate: Vetting, Screening and Special Investigations
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Must be in possession of grade 12 certification. The candidate must have a
minimum of three (3) years’ experience required. Job Related Work
Experience: Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to
capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and
understanding of the legislation framework governing the Public Service.
3
Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working environment. Job
Related Skills: Must have a computer literacy, the applicant must have good
verbal and written communication. Must have a planning and good
organisation.
DUTIES : Supervise and render general clerical support services. Record, organise,
store, capture and retrieve correspondence and data. Update register and
statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles. Distributes documents/packages to various stakeholders as
required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the component. Type basic
letters and other correspondences when required. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing register of the component. Checking draft minutes for
accuracy against recording or notes. Supervise and provide supply chain
clerical support services within the component. Liaise with internal and externa
stakeholders in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain
quotations and complete procurement forms for the purchasing of standard
office items. Stock control of office stationery. Keep and maintain the assets
register of the component. Supervise and provide personnel administration
clerical support services within the component. Maintain a leave register for the
component. Keep and maintain personnel records in the component. Keep and
maintain the attendances register of the component. Arrange travelling and
accommodation. Supervise and provide financial administration support
services in the component. Capture and update expenditure in the component.
Check correctness of subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit to
manager for approval. Handle telephone accounts and petty cash for the
component. Supervise Human resources / staff. Allocate and ensure quality of
work. Ensure personnel development. Assess staff performance. Apply
discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Conny Matebane Tel No: (012) 319 6960
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
ACSrecruit012025@nda.agric.za
NOTE : African, Coloured, White Males and Coloured, Indian and White Females, and
persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 42/02 : VETTING INVESTIGATOR REF NO: 3/3/1/02/2025
Directorate: Vetting, Screening and Special Investigations
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of grade 12 Certificate. A Bachelor’s Degree
/ National Diploma in Security Risk Management, Police Science and Policing
/ Social Science (NQF6). Appointment is subject to completing training course
offered by State Security Agency / Defence Intelligence. Minimum of two (2)
years of experience in the field of security vetting. Job related knowledge:
Knowledge on security vetting administration. Extensive knowledge in general
administration. Job related skills: Communication skills, Facilitation skills,
Computer literacy, Report writing skills, Presentation skills, Listening skills and
Interpersonal relations skills. A valid driver’s licence and willingness to travel
on a regular basis.
DUTIES : Conduct vetting fieldwork investigations. Gather relevant information. Conduct
proper analysis and quality checks on the information. Compile and submit
reports to management and State Security Agency (SSA) on all vetting files
and reports completed on a regular basis. Conduct vetting investigations in
respect of confidential and secret levels. Provide inputs for the development
and implementation of policies, guidelines, norms and standards in vetting
investigations. Analyse, research and evaluate all vetting related information.
Provide advice and guidance on the interpretation and application of
legislation, policies and procedures. Provide effective communication channels
and systems between the Department and the State Security Agency (SSA)
and other related agencies. Liaise regularly with State Security Agency (SSA),
South African Police Service (SAPS), South African Secret Service (SASS),
Defence, Department of Home Affairs and other critical stakeholders for advice
and assistance to obtain additional information. Administer vetting files and
reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Mandla Mnguni Tel No: (012) 319 7127
4
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
VIrecruit022025@nda.agric.za
NOTE : African, Coloured, White Males and Coloured, Indians, White Females and
Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 42/03 : HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER REF NO: 3/3/1/06/2025
Directorate: Human Resource Administration
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Must be in possession of grade 12 certificate and National Diploma in Human
Resource Management (NQF 6). The candidate must have a minimum of (one)
1 year experience in Recruitment and Selection Environment. Job Related
Work Experience: Knowledge of recruitment and selection prescripts and
legislation. Knowledge of human resource transformation, monitoring and
evaluation. Knowledge of Public Service Act. Knowledge of Public Service
Regulations. Knowledge of Employment Equity Act. Knowledge of Labour
Relations Act. Knowledge of Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Job Related
Skills: the applicant must have good communication (verbal and written). Good
interpersonal relations. Ability to communicate well with people at different
level. Planning and organising skills. Problem solving skills. Good telephone
and email etiquette. Presentation and facilitation. Report writing. Record
keeping. People management. Monitoring and evaluation. Negotiation and
conflict resolution. Customer focus. Computer literacy. A Valid Drivers License.
DUTIES : Ensure the advertisement of vacant and funded posts. Ensure that duly
completed and approved application to fill a Post Form is attached. Ensure that
job description or job evaluation results are attached. Ensure that employment
equity targets are attached. Draft advertisement in line with the approved job
profile. Send draft advertisement to line manager for sign off before placement.
Submit documents to advertising section for placement. Provide effective
advisory service on recruitment and selection. Ensure adherence and
compliance to R&S policy and prescripts. Administer the arrangement of
shortlisting’s and interviews. Provide technical advisory services during
shortlisting’s and interviews. Implement recommendations of the selection
committee members. Draft appointment submission for approval. Conduct
personnel suitability checks on recommended candidates. Issue appointment
letters and regret letters. Provide assistance during recruitment and selection
information sessions. Respond to all related enquiries. Meet with clients on
daily operational issues. Write submissions and letters on matters related to
recruitment and selection. Represent the unit at various transformation forums
in the Department. Rendering secretariat services during shortlisting and
interviews. Provide effective interpretation on legislations, policies and
directives. Provide inputs on the amendment of policies and procedures. Draft
written responses to line functionaries on functional areas to enhance correct
implementation of recruitment and selection processes and practices. Follow
up on vacancies with a view to reduce the vacancy rate and turnaround time
to fill a post. Provide training on recruitment and selection policies and
prescripts. Maintain and update database with statistics on the filling of posts.
Maintain and provide statistical information on recruitment and selection.
Update and maintain recruitment and selection vacancy databases. Control,
maintain and monitor databases set up to monitor recruitment and selection
activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Godfrey Matloga Tel No: (012) 319 9416
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
HRPrecruit062025@nda.agric.za
NOTE : African, Coloured, Indian Males and Indian Females and Persons with disability
are encouraged to apply.
POST 42/04 : SENIOR SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: 3/3/1/05/2025
Directorate: Vetting, Screening and Special Investigations: Grootfontein
Agricultural Development Institute (GADI)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape (Middleburg)
5
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of grade 12 certificate. Registered as
Security Officer with Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority (PSIRA)
Grade B certificate. Must have a minimum of three (3) years security
experience Job related knowledge: Knowledge of access control procedures.
Knowledge of measures for the control and movement of equipment and
stores. Knowledge of prescribed security procedures (e.g. Minimum
Information Security Standard (MISS), Criminal Procedure Act, Minimum
Physical Security Standard (MPSS), Protection of Information Act, etc) and the
authority of security officers under these documents. Knowledge on the
relevant emergency procedures. Willingness to work 12 hours shifts, travel and
work irregular hours (afterhours, weekends and public holidays).
DUTIES : Supervise the security functions performed by the security officers/service
providers, ensuring adherence to department security policies. Allocate duties
to security officers/service providers, monitor outcomes and institute the
necessary corrective measure to address deviations from norms and
standards. Monitor access control to prevent unauthorised entry in building and
other premises. Authorisation of the equipment, documents and stores into or
out of the building or premises. Inspect and report all none functioning of
security measures (e.g. X-machines, Walk-through metal detectors, security
lights and etc.) Check incidents / occurrence books / registers. Monitor and
provide support in cases of emergencies. Ensure that unauthorised persons
and dangerous objects do not enter the buildings / premises. Perform proper
lockups for all officers and access points. Identify suspicious conduct. Follow
up on incidents. Report all the identified security breaches and non-compliance
to the supervisor. Administrative and related functions. Determining rosters,
shift schedules and overtime. Monitor performance of employees and
determine training needs. Control leave and related personnel matters in line
with HR procedures and prescripts. Provide security related services.
Administer key control system. Identify risks and threat to the security of the
department. Provide information regarding incidents to investigating officers.
Monitor and respond to alarm system. Report faulty equipment/systems.
Ensure systems are functioning optimally through scheduled services. Conduct
preliminary incidents investigations and submit reports. Administer all control
room operations to safeguard the department’s assets. Supervise all control
room activities. Report all incidents and any identified non-compliance relating
to security prescripts. Review of footages upon request through proper
procedures. Update all registers for the incidents observed.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TK Maila Tel No: (012) 312 8627 & Cell: 060 461 4811
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SSOrecruit052025@nda.agric.za
NOTE : Coloured, Indian Males and Africa, Coloured, Indian Females and Persons with
disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 42/05 : SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: 3/3/1/03/2025 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Vetting, Screening and Special Investigations
SALARY : R163 980 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of Basic Education and Training (NQF level
3) or higher. Registered as Security Officer with Private Security Industry
Regulatory Authority (PSIRA) Grade C certificate. Job related knowledge:
Knowledge of access control procedures. Knowledge of measures for the
control and movement of equipment and stores. Knowledge of prescribed
security procedures (e.g. (Minimum Information Security Standard (MISS),
Criminal Procedure Act, Minimum Physical Security Standard (MPSS),
Protection of Information Act, etc) and the authority of security officers under
these documents. Knowledge on the relevant emergency procedures.
Willingness to work 12 hours shifts, travel and work irregular hours (afterhours,
weekends and public holidays).
DUTIES : Perform access control functions. Determine whether visitors have
appointments/or the service that the visitor requires. Contact the relevant
employee to confirm the appointment or refer the visitor to the relevant service
delivery point. Complete or ensure that the admission control register is
completed and issue admission control documents / cards as required. Escort
visitors to relevant employees / venue where required. Operate X-ray machines
where applicable. Lock and unlock entrances. Identify suspicious conduct.
6
Ensure that unauthorised persons and dangerous objects do not enter the
building / premises. Follow-up on incidents. Ensure safety in the building and
the premises. Undertake building / premises patrols to identify and check the
doors are locked or unlocked as required, water leaks and that taps are closed,
fire hazards, exposed electrical contacts and other fire hazards emanating from
instance chemicals, lights are switched on and off as required, and suspicious
objects and packages. Apply emergency procedures (in situations like bomb
scares, riots etc) and alter emergency services and departmental
management. Ensure that equipment, documents and stores do not leave or
enter the building or premises unauthorised. Complete or ensure that the
register to control the movement of equipment, stores and documents are
completed. Ensure that no equipment, stores and assets of the department
leave the building/premises unauthorised. Inspect vehicles entering and
leaving the premises. Gather information and report on missing and stolen
equipment and stores. Handle documents at points of entry according to
classification and prescripts. Ensure all incidents are recorded in the
occurrence books / registers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TK Maila Tel No: (012) 312 8627 & Cell: 060 461 4811
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SOrecruit032025@nda.agric.za
NOTE : African, Indian Males and Coloured, Indian, White Females and Persons with
disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 42/06 : SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: 3/3/1/04/2025 (X4 POSTS)
Directorate: Vetting, Screening and Special Investigations: Grootfontein
Agricultural Development Institute (GADI)
SALARY : R163 980 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape (Middleburg)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of Basic Education and Training (NQF level
3) or higher. Registered as Security Officer with Private Security Industry
Regulatory Authority (PSIRA) Grade C certificate. Job related knowledge:
Knowledge of access control procedures. Knowledge of measures for the
control and movement of equipment and stores. Knowledge of prescribed
security procedures (e.g. (Minimum Information Security Standard (MISS),
Criminal Procedure Act, Minimum Physical Security Standard (MPSS),
Protection of Information Act, etc) and the authority of security officers under
these documents. Knowledge on the relevant emergency procedures.
Willingness to work 12 hours shifts, travel and work irregular hours (afterhours,
weekends and public holidays).
DUTIES : Perform access control functions. Determine whether visitors have
appointments/or the service that the visitor requires. Contact the relevant
employee to confirm the appointment or refer the visitor to the relevant service
delivery point. Complete or ensure that the admission control register is
completed and issue admission control documents / cards as required. Escort
visitors to relevant employees / venue where required. Operate X-ray machines
where applicable. Lock and unlock entrances. Identify suspicious conduct.
Ensure that unauthorised persons and dangerous objects do not enter the
building / premises. Follow-up on incidents. Ensure safety in the building and
the premises. Undertake building / premises patrols to identify and check the
doors are locked or unlocked as required, water leaks and that taps are closed,
fire hazards, exposed electrical contacts and other fire hazards emanating from
instance chemicals, lights are switched on and off as required, and suspicious
objects and packages. Apply emergency procedures (in situations like bomb
scares, riots etc) and alter emergency services and departmental
management. Ensure that equipment, documents and stores do not leave or
enter the building or premises unauthorised. Complete or ensure that the
register to control the movement of equipment, stores and documents are
completed. Ensure that no equipment, stores and assets of the department
leave the building/premises unauthorised. Inspect vehicles entering and
leaving the premises. Gather information and report on missing and stolen
equipment and stores. Handle documents at points of entry according to
classification and prescripts. Ensure all incidents are recorded in the
occurrence books / registers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TK Maila Tel No: (012) 312 8627 & Cell: 060 461 4811
7
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SOrecruit042025@nda.agric.za
NOTE : African, Indian Males and Coloured, Indian, White Females and Persons with
disability are encouraged to apply.
8
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF CIVILIAN SECRETARIAT FOR POLICE SERVICE
The Civilian Secretariat for Police Service is an equal opportunity, and gender sensitive employer and it
is the intention to promote representivity in the Public Service through the filling of these posts. The
Secretariat for Police service is committed to the achievement and maintenance of diversity and equity
employment.
APPLICATIONS : applications must be mailed timeously to Private Bag X922, Pretoria, 0001 or
hand delivered or couriered to 268 Lilian Ngoyi Street, Pretorius Street,
Fedsure Building 2nd floor, Pretoria at the Reception Desk. No late applications
will be accepted. Failure to comply with this requirement will result in the
candidate being disqualified.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025. NB: Please ensure that your application reaches this office
not later than 16h00 on week-days.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z.83 of
the Public Service Act, obtainable from any Public Service Department or any
Public Service and Administration website or Recruitment Office within the
Secretariat for Police Service. Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit a
fully completed Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (e.g. indicating positions
held, dates and key performance areas/responsibilities). Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day
of the interviews following communication from the Department. Failure to
submit the requested documents/information will result in your application not
being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates
only. If you have not been contacted within three months of the closing date of
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. All
shortlisted candidates’ posts will be subjected to a technical competency
exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics
of which be communicated by the Department. Following the interview and
technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend the most suitable
candidate. Short-listed candidates will be subjected to a security clearance.
The Secretary of Police Service has the right not to fill the post. All posts are
based in Pretoria. Preference will be given to youth, people with disability and
women in accordance with our employment equity.
OTHER POSTS
POST 42/07 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION
TECHNOLOGY REF NO: CSP/22/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA)
in Information Technology/Computer Science or related field or equivalent
qualification. 5 years working experience in information technology of which 3
years must be at management/ supervisory level (ASD). Knowledge and/or
qualification in a recognised framework for ICT service, Microsoft Windows and
ICT Systems. Sound understanding of computer systems (hardware/software),
networks etc. Experience in controlling information technology budget.
Knowledge of Government prescripts, Public Finance Management Act and
Public Service Transformation. Ability to develop and implement outcome-
based performance management system to support achievement of
department goal and Objectives. Public service regulatory framework and
government planning. Applied strategic thinking, problem solving and decision
making, communication (written and verbal). Presentation, team leadership
and project management. Planning and organizing skills.
DUTIES : Draft ICT policies in line with good practice and manage the communication of
ICT policies and procedures to all users. Ensure the development of ICT
strategies, policies and procedures and their compliance with public service
best practice and prescripts. Provide systems and networks support, develop
effective systems of managing ICT services for the Department and provide
server administration support. Manage and monitoring services to systems,
networks and ICT security. Manage backup and restore for systems,
applications and databases. Manage anti-virus deployment and support,
provide firewall and proxy support services. Manage and oversee the overall
9
ICT security standards. Manage servers, security solutions, network hardware
and equipment. Develop standard operating procedures and best practices,
including providing written protocols and guidance to ICT staff and to end-
users. Oversee provision of end-user services, including help desk and
technical support services. Manage service level agreements with service
providers of outsourced ICT services in line with approved ICT strategy and
budget. Management of resources (human and financial).
ENQUIRIES : Mr MD Mashifane Tel No: (012) 4931 435
APPLICATIONS : Can also be emailed to Recruitment72@csp.gov.za
POST 42/08 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT PRACTITIONER REF NO: CSP/23/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Logistics/Purchasing management /Supply Chain
Management/Business Management. 2 years’ experience in Supply Chain
Management environment. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act,
Treasury Regulations, contract management, Supply Chain Management
policies and procedures. Knowledge of BAS and LOGIS systems. Computer
literacy, Planning and organizing, interpersonal and communication skills.
Problem solving and decision making skills. Customer service orientation.
DUTIES : Procurement of goods and services for below the threshold of R500 000.00.
Invitation of quotations and ensure that all documentations are correctly
completed and needs clearly defined. Draft specifications/ terms of reference
received from the directorate and convert to standard template. Compiling a
list of documents received, evaluation, drafting comparative schedule,
quotation register and checklist; submitting to supervisor for verification.
Submit documents to the directorate for acceptance of recommendation and
submit approved documents to SCM: Logistics to issue an order. Rotation of
the CSD suppliers. Searching for suppliers from the National Treasury’s
Central Supplier Database (CSD) suppliers, attend to all database queries,
reporting on a monthly basis. (List of suppliers utilized) and reporting none
responsive suppliers. Procurement of goods and services for the threshold
above R500 000.00. Compile bid documents for issuing purposes, attend to
queries related to the administration of the bid documents and assist with the
process on closing date of the bid.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MD Mashifane Tel No: (012) 4931 435
APPLICATIONS : Can also be emailed to Oratile.Phomane@csp.gov.za
POST 42/09 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: CSP/24/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior certificate/Grade 12 certificate. Knowledge of clerical duties.
Knowledge and understanding of legislative framework governing the Public
Service. Knowledge of document management or filling, ability to capture and
maintain data. Ability to capture data, use computer. Planning and organizing,
communication skills (verbal and written). Computer literacy, confidentiality and
accuracy. Ability to work under pressure and work long hours.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondences and data. Distribute documents/packages to various
stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filling system for the Chief
Directorate. Keep and maintain the incoming and outgoing register of the Chief
Directorate. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in relation to
procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete procurement
forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Keep and maintain the asset
register of the Chief Directorate. Maintain leave register for the Chief
Directorate. Coordinate the maintenance of personnel records in the Chief
Directorate. Arrange logistical arrangements for travelling and accommodation.
Check correctness of substance and travel claims of officials. Perform ad-hoc
duties, as may be delegated from time to time.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Maiko Tel No: (012) 4931 390
APPLICATIONS : Can also be emailed to Recruitment52@csp.gov.za
10
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025 (Applications received after the closing date and faxed
copies will not be considered).
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed form Z83 (obtainable from
any Public Service Department office i.e effective 01 January 2021 or on the
DPSA web site link: https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/. Should an
application be received using incorrect application employment form Z83, it will
be disqualified, which must be originally signed and dated by the applicant and
which must be accompanied by a detailed CV only (with full particulars of the
applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge & experience).
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
which should not be older than six months. Failure to comply with the above
instructions will result in applications being disqualified. Applicants applying for
more than one post must submit a separate form Z83 (as well as the
documentation mentioned above) in respect of each post being applied for. If
an applicant wishes to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing.
Should an application be received where an applicant applies for more than
one post on the same applications form, the application will only be considered
for the first post indicated on the application and not for any of the other posts.
Under no circumstances will photostat copies or faxed copies of application
documents be accepted. The successful candidates will be subjected to
Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset
record checks and qualification and employment verification). Successful
candidates will also be subjected to security clearance processes. The level of
appointments is dependent upon, qualifications, relevant experience and
research output. The shortlisted candidates will be subjected to two (2) pre-
entry assessments (practical and ethical exercise) which will determine the
candidate’s suitability. Applicants who do not receive confirmation or feedback
within 3 (three) months after the closing date, please consider your application
unsuccessful. Due to the large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of
applications will not be acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. For more information on the job description(s)
please contact the person indicated in the post details. Successful candidates
will be appointed on probation for the period of twelve (12) months in terms of
the prescribed rules.
OTHER POSTS
POST 42/10 : HEAD OF CLINICAL UNIT (PSYCHIATRY) GRADE 1 – 2 REF NO: SG
03/42/25/01
SALARY : Grade 1: R2 084 754 per annum
Grade 2: R2 279 559 per annum
(all-inclusive package according to experience as per OSD regulations)
CENTRE : 2 Military Hospital, Wynberg, Cape Town.
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree and specialised in the field of Psychiatry and registered with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA). Minimum of 3 years
required.
DUTIES : Management of the Psychiatry Department in the hospital. Provide an inpatient
and outpatient service in a Psychiatry Department. Manage patients as both in
and out patients. Ensure optimal training of interns as per HPCSA guidelines.
Supervise students rotating through the Psychiatry and Psychology
Departments. Supervise and teach Registrars. Participate in and provide
academic teaching and lectures. Provide consultant cover and clinical services
after-hours. Ensure an active CPD program is run in the department.
Managerial tasks include budgetary estimations, compilation of reports, and
maintenance of discipline and performance assessments of staff. Work as a
civilian within the Department of Defence with emphasis on privacy and non-
disclosure of information. Participate in the commuted overtime system for the
Department of Defence.
11
ENQUIRIES : Dr M.B. Esau Tel No: (021) 799 6258, Maj L.M. Thebe Tel No: (021) 799 6577
or Warrant Officer R.J. West Tel No: (021) 799 6454.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Military Health Service, 2 Military
Hospital, Private Bag X4, Wynberg, 7824 or hand deliver to 2 Military Hospital,
Hospital Rd, Wynberg Military Base or email to 2milhr@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/11 : MEDICAL OFFICER (INTERNAL MEDICINE) (GRADE 1 – 3) REF NO: SG
03/42/25/02
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(all-inclusive package per according to experience as per OSD regulations)
CENTRE : 2 Military Hospital, Wynberg, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Applicable degree, MBChB or equivalent and registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA). Diploma in Internal Medicine
advantageous. Computer literacy is essential.
DUTIES : Provide an Inpatient and Outpatient service in an Internal Medicine
Department. Manage patients both as in- and out patients. Supervise junior
medical officers and interns in training. Ensure optimal training of interns as per
HPCSA guidelines. Supervise students rotating through the Internal Medicine
department. Participate in and provide academic teaching and lectures. Ensure
an active CPD program is run in the Department. Managerial tasks will include
budgetary estimations, maintenance of discipline, rosters and assessments of
staff. Work as a civilian within the Department of Defence with emphasis on
privacy and non-disclosure of information. Participate in the commuted
overtime system for the Department of Defence.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M.B. Esau Tel No: (021) 799 6258, Maj L.M. Thebe Tel No: (021) 799 6577
or Warrant Officer R.J. West Tel No: (021) 799 6454.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Military Health Service, 2 Military
Hospital, Private Bag X4, Wynberg, 7824 or hand deliver to 2 Military Hospital,
Hospital Rd, Wynberg Military Base or email to 2milhr@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/12 : MEDICAL OFFICER (PAEDIATRICS) GRADE 1 - 3 REF NO: SG 03/42/25/03
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(all-inclusive package according to experience as per OSD regulations)
CENTRE : 2 Military Hospital, Wynberg, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Applicable degree, MBChB or equivalent and registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA). PALS/APLS, ANLS and/or
Diploma in Child Health advantageous. Computer literacy is essential.
DUTIES : Provide an Inpatient and Outpatient service in a Paediatric Department.
Manage patients both as in- and out patients (including neonates). Supervise
junior medical officers and interns in training. Ensure optimal training of interns
as per HPCSA guidelines. Have background knowledge and or post graduate
qualification in Paediatric. Must be able to assist with paediatric procedures.
Supervise students rotating through the Paediatric department. Participate in
and provide academic teaching and lectures. Ensure an active CPD program
is run in the Department. Managerial tasks will include rosters and
assessments of staff. Work as a civilian within the Department of Defence with
emphasis on privacy and non-disclosure of information. Participate in the
commuted overtime system for the Department of Defence.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M.B. Esau Tel No: (021) 799 6258, Maj L.M. Thebe Tel No: (021) 799 6577
or Warrant Officer R.J. West Tel No: (021) 799 6454
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Military Health Service., 2 Military
Hospital, Private Bag X4, Wynberg, 7824 or hand deliver to 2 Military Hospital,
Hospital Rd, Wynberg Military Base or email to 2milhr@dod.mil.za
12
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/13 : MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIST BIOCHEMISTRY, PRODUCTION LEVEL
(GRADE 1 – 3) REF NO: SG 03/42/25/04
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum.
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
(all-inclusive package according to experience as per OSD regulations)
CENTRE : 1 Military Hospital, Thaba Tshwane, Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/B Tech/BHSc in Medical Technology. No Medical Technology
post registration experience will be required but any relevant experience will
be an advantage. Current full registration with the Health Professions Council
of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Technologist Biochemistry (Independent
practice). Special requirements (skill needed): Implementation and
management of Occupational Health & Safety regulations/procedures. Total
quality management. Communication. SANAS Accreditation.
DUTIES : Key performance areas applicable to the execution of these services/functions
are: Good knowledge and experience in the applicable functional fields of
Biochemistry: Laboratory methodology. Sample processing and sample
administration. Maintenance principles and procedures regarding laboratory
analysers and general analytical equipment. Quality Control processes and
procedures. Laboratory Accreditation processes. Laboratory statistics.
Laboratory Data Management System.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel (Lt Col) D.P. Maluka Tel No: (012) 314 0161
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Military Health Service. HR Services
Department, 1 Military Hospital, Private Bag X1026, Thaba-Tshwane, Pretoria
or email to Elizabeth.VanDerWesthuizen@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/14 : PERSONNEL OFFICIAL: SUPERVISOR REF NO: AFBWKLF/01/42/25/01
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : AFB Waterkloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent with minimum of three (3)
experience in Human Resource Management. Special requirements (skills
needed): Knowledge and insight of HR legislation. Knowledge and
understanding of applicable HR prescripts. Good interpersonal skills and
communication skills (written and verbal). Must be computer literate, i.e. MS
Office Suite (Word, Excel and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Provide Human Resources administration capability at AFB Waterkloof.
Administer HR Utilization Support services including HR maintenance services
such as Inland Accommodation Expenditure(S&T), Leave, Unit Schedule name
list, Flights and Car Hire requests, Termination of Services, Medals and Awards
and Reserve Force Administration. Assist in compiling and typing of routine
notes, memorandums, letters, and reports. Ensure proper adherence to HR
policies and processes of the DOD. Ensure control of the work flow to and from
relevant role players at AFB WKLF. Must have the ability to develop new ideas
to change existing methods (when/as required). General management of the
office as well as organized office administration. Deal with classified calls,
files/documents of the Human Resource Support Section.
ENQUIRIES : Maj B. Lekgokgola/F Sgt L. Roos Tel No: (012) 672 3055
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Air Force Base Waterkloof, PO. Box X1001, Lyttleton
0140 or may be hand deliver at Solomon Mahlangu Drive (M10) 378 JR,
Centurion or email to afbwklfhr@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
13
POST 42/15 : PERSONNAL ASSISTANT REF NO: SAAFHQUNIT/01/42/25/A1
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : SAAF Headquarters Unit, Dequar Road, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent with Secretarial Diploma
or Diploma in Management Assistant with a minimum of three (3) years
relevant experience in rendering a support service to senior management.
Special requirements (skills needed): Language skills and the ability to
communicate well with people at different backgrounds. Proficiency in
Microsoft, Office suits, Excel. Professional attitude and appearance. Solid
written and verbal communication skills. Excellent organisational skills. Good
etiquette, sound organisational skills, high level of reliability, ability to act with
tact and discretion. Candidate must be willing to work overtime at times.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be required to perform the following core
functions: Provide secretarial/reception support service and clerical support to
the Director e.g. Receive telephone calls, performs advanced typing work,
record the engagements. Renders administrative support services eg. Co-
ordinates logistical arrangements for meetings when required. Supports the
Director with administrative of the manager’s budget. Studies the relevant
Public Service and departmental prescripts/policies and other documents and
ensure that the application thereof is understood properly. Continuously
remains up to date wrt the policies and procedures applicable to the work
environment to ensure efficient and effective support to the Director. Remains
abreast with the procedures and processes that apply in the office of the
Director.
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col J. Songca Tel No: (012) 312 2343
APPLICATIONS : South African Air Force, Dequar Road, Private Bag X199, Pretoria, 0001 or
may be hand deliver at 07 Dequar road, CBD, Pretoria or email to
saafunithr@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/16 : PERSONNEL OFFICIAL: SUPERVISOR REF NO:
SAAFHQUNIT/01/42/25/B2
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : SAAF Headquarters Unit, Dequar Road, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent with three (3) years of
experience in Human Resource Management. Special requirements (skills
needed): Knowledge and insight of HR legislation. Knowledge and
understanding of applicable HR prescripts. Good interpersonal skills and
communication skills (written and verbal). Must be computer literate, i.e. MS
Office Suite (Word, Excel and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Provide Human Resources administration capability at Air Command (CM&S).
Remain abreast with the procedures and processes that apply in the office wrt
PSAP. Monitor and conduct the training and development of personnel. Ensure
the quality of work. Direct the provision of support services to the unit. Assess
staff performance and handle enquiries related to PSAP in the office. Oversee
the provision of logistics support. Coordinate personnel administration.
Supervision of human resources maintenance. Ensure control of the work flow
to and from relevant role players at SAAF HQ. Must have the ability to develop
new ideas to change existing methods (when/as required). General
management of the office as well as organized office administration. Deal with
classified calls, files/documents of the Human Resource Support Section.
Compile CM&S reports and ensure submission to relevant stakeholders.
Handle and manage detached duty and lateral transfers of PSAP Keep and
maintain personnel’s files. Attend work sessions and development courses.
Prepare work skill plans. Participate in staffing and placement boards.
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col J. Songca Tel No: (012) 312 2343
APPLICATIONS : South African Air Force, Dequar Road, Private Bag X199, Pretoria, 0001 or
may be hand deliver at 07 Dequar road, CBD, Pretoria or email to
saafunithr@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
14
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/17 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO:
AFBWKLF/01/42/25/02 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : AFB Waterkloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF L4) or equivalent. No experience. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Good communication (verbal/written) and
Interpersonal skills. Computer literate and numerical skills.
DUTIES : Ensure the performance of high clerical tasks in support of the provisioning
Administration Officers at e.g. Logistic/Supply Support. Tasks will include the
preserving, storing and maintaining of certain military items, making
arrangements for the maintenance of stock by experts, keeping data registers
up to date iro stock received, issued and not issued. Render assistance during
stocktaking and assist with the securing and keeping of warehouse/stores neat.
Must do follow up actions on demands outstanding, assist with the updating of
provisioning parameters on all ICN’s, must assist with the scrutinising and
printing of all PA’s, must be able to do demand and purchasing as per PA’s,
assist in the disposal and safe guarding of stores, must give feedback of all
relevant stats required, determine future stock levels. Also responsible for
binning and cleaning of stores, issuing and receiving of stores, must evaluate
and determine requirements concerning the operational readiness of the Base
or any Section thereof, must do stock taking of stores.
ENQUIRIES : Maj B. Lekgokgola /F Sgt L. Roos Tel No: (012) 672 3055
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Air Force Base Waterkloof, P.O. Box1001, Lyttleton
0140 or may be hand delivered at Solomon Mahlangu Drive (M10) 378 JR,
Centurion Department of Defence, Air Force Base Waterkloof, PO. Box X1001,
Lyttleton, 0140 or may be hand deliver at Solomon Mahlangu Drive (M10) 378
JR, Centurion or email to afbwklfhr@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/18 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO:
AFBWKLF/01/42/25/03
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : AFB Waterkloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF L4) or equivalent. No experience. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Computer literate, organizing skills, good
interpersonal relationships, effective verbal and written communication, Full
knowledge of the utilisation of MS software packages.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support duties, Capturing of personnel leave and
Subsistence & Travelling, capturing of personnel performance assessments,
compiling database for skills development programmes for personnel and
capturing reports, record assets of the unit and keep them updated by maintain
the asset register and attend to telephone enquiries and maintain proper filling
of documents in the section.
ENQUIRIES : Maj B. Lekgokgola /F Sgt L. Roos Tel No: (012) 672 3055
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Air Force Base Waterkloof, P.O. Box1001, Lyttleton,
0140 or may be hand deliver at Solomon Mahlangu Drive (M10) 378 JR,
Centurion or email to: afbwklfhr@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/19 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO:
68AIRSCHL/01/42/25/01A
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : 68 Air School, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 or (NQF L4) or equivalent. No experience. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Computer literate, organizing skills, good
15
interpersonal relationships, effective verbal and written communication.
Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data,
operate computer and collecting statistics.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support duties, capturing of personnel leave and
Subsistence & Travelling, capturing of personnel performance assessments,
compiling database for skills development programmes for personnel and
capturing reports, record assets of the unit and keep them updated by maintain
the asset register and attend to telephone enquiries and maintain proper filling
of documents in the section.
ENQUIRIES : Maj V. Mahlangu/WO2 S.B Malaza Tel No: (012) 672 5039/5021
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, 68 Air School, Private Bag X15088, Lyttelton, 0140 or
may be hand deliver at Snake Valley Road, 356 JR, Centurion or email to:
oc68airschool@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/20 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO:
PROCUNITOC/01/42/25/(I) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Procurement Unit OC, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF L4) or equivalent. No experience. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Good communication (verbal/written) and
Interpersonal skills. Planning and organising.
DUTIES : Ensure the performance of high clerical tasks in Support of the Provisioning
Administration Officers at e.g. Logistic/Supply Support. Tasks will include the
preserving, storing and maintaining of certain military items, making
arrangements for the maintenance of stock by experts, keeping data registers
up to date iro stock received, issued and not issued. Render assistance during
stocktaking and assist with the securing and keeping of warehouse/stores neat.
Must do follow up actions on demands outstanding, assist with the updating of
provisioning parameters on all ICN’s, must assist with the scrutinising and
printing of all PA’s, must be able to do demand and purchasing as per PA’s,
assist in the disposal and safe guarding of stores, must give feedback of all
relevant stats required, determine future stock levels. Also responsible for
binning and cleaning of stores, issuing and receiving of stores, must evaluate
and determine requirements concerning the operational readiness of the Base
or any section thereof, must do stock taking of stores.
ENQUIRIES : Maj T. Qwakele Tel No: (012) 351 2567/WO2 N.S. Dithatho Tel No: (012) 351
2773
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Air Force Mobile Deployment Wing Snake Valley
Road, Private Bag X1008, Thaba Tshwane, 0143 or may be hand deliver at
Snake Valley Road, 356 JR, Centurion or email to:
mobiledeploymentwing@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/21 : REGISTRY CLERK PRODUCTION REF NO: AFBWKLF/01/42/25/06
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : AFB Waterkloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF L4) or equivalent. No experience. Special
requirements (skills needed): Knowledge of MS Word, Excel and Power Point.
Typing skills. Language proficiency in English (written and verbal). Analytical
and innovative thinking as well as problem Solving Skills. Excellent
interpersonal skills. Sound organisational skills. High level of reliability. Ability
to act with tact and discretion. Ability to do research and analyse documents
and situations. Excellent record management skills. A background as record
management will be an advantage.
DUTIES : Maintaining of proper record management guidelines, procedures and
practices to support DOD record-keeping requirements. Identify and review all
current recordkeeping and records management procedures. Continuous
review of procedures. The management of Records Classification Systems (ie
16
DOD Correspondence File Plan, record retention schedules). Administer
clients' requests for amendments and additions to records classification
systems. Answer enquiries with the correct use of file references. Execute all
administrative tasks with the maintenance of the records classification
systems. Maintain and update the paper-based master copy of the records
classification systems by adding additions and amendments when necessary.
Ensure that the electronic version and the paper-based version of the records
classification systems are always synchronized.
ENQUIRIES : Maj B. Lekgokgola/F Sgt L. Roos Tel No: (012) 672 3055
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Air Force Base Waterkloof, Private Bag X1001,
Lyttleton 0140 or may be hand delivered at Solomon Mahlangu Drive (M10)
378 JR, Centurion Department of Defence, Air Force Base Waterkloof, PO. Box
X1001, Lyttleton 0140 or may be hand deliver at Solomon Mahlangu Drive
(M10) 378 JR, Centurion or email to afbwklfhr@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/22 : REGISTRY CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO: 68AIRSCHL/01/42/25/02B
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : 68 Air School, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF L4) or equivalent. No experience. Special
requirements (skills needed): Knowledge of MS suite. Language proficiency in
English (written and verbal). Analytical and innovative thinking as well as
problem Solving Skills. Ability to do research and analyse documents and
situations. Excellent record management skills. A background in record
management will be an advantage.
DUTIES : Development and amendment of records management guidelines, procedures
and practices to support DOD record-keeping requirements. Identify and
review all current recordkeeping and records management procedures.
Continuous review of procedures. The management of Records Classification
Systems (ie DOD Correspondence File Plan, record retention schedules).
Administer clients' requests for amendments and additions to records
classification systems. Answer enquiries with the correct use of file references.
Execute all administrative tasks with the maintenance of the records
classification systems. Maintain and update the paper-based master copy of
the records classification systems by adding additions and amendments when
necessary. Ensure that the electronic version and the paper-based version of
the records classification systems are always synchronized.
ENQUIRIES : Maj V. Mahlangu/WO2 S.B. Malaza Tel No: (012) 672 5039/5021
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, 68 Air School, Private Bag X15088, Lyttelton, 0140 or
may be hand deliver at Snake Valley Road, 356 JR, Centurion or email:
oc68airschool@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/23 : REGISTRY CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO: MDW/01/42/25/01/B
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Air Force Mobile Deployment Wing
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF L4) or equivalent. No experience. Special
requirements (skills needed): Knowledge of MS Word, Excel and Power Point.
Typing skills. Language proficiency in English (written and verbal). Analytical
and innovative thinking as well as problem solving Skills. Excellent
interpersonal Skills. Sound Organisational skills. High level of reliability. Ability
to act with tact and discretion. Good people skills. Ability to do research and
analyse documents and situations. Excellent record management skills. A
background as record management will be an advantage.
DUTIES : Development and amendment of records management guidelines, procedures
and practices to support DoD record-keeping requirements. Identify and review
all current Recordkeeping and records management procedures. Continuous
review of procedures. The management of Records Classification Systems (ie
DoD Correspondence File Plan, Record retention schedules). Administer
17
clients' requests for amendments and additions to records classification
systems. Answer enquiries wrt the correct use of file references. Execute all
administrative tasks wrt the maintenance of the records classification systems.
Maintain and update the paper-based master copy of the records classification
systems by adding additions and amendments when necessary. Ensure that
the electronic version and the paper-based version of the records classification
systems are always synchronized.
ENQUIRIES : Maj T. Qwakele Tel No: (012) 351 2567/WO2 N.S. Dithatho Tel No: (012) 351
2773
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Air Force Mobile Deployment Wing Snake Valley
Road, Private Bag X1008, Thaba Tshwane, 0143 or may be hand deliver at
Snake Valley Road, 356 JR, Centurion or email to
mobiledeploymentwing@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/24 : REGISTRY CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO: PROCUNITOC/01/42/25/(II)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Procurement Unit OC, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF L4) or equivalent. No experience. Special
requirements (skills needed): Knowledge of MS Word, Excel and Power Point.
Typing skills. Language proficiency in English (written and verbal). Analytical
and innovative thinking as well as problem solving Skills. Excellent
interpersonal Skills. Sound Organisational skills. High level of reliability. Ability
to act with tact and discretion. Good people skills. Ability to do research and
analyse documents and situations. Excellent record management skills. A
background as record management will be an advantage.
DUTIES : Development and amendment of records management guidelines, procedures
and practices to support DoD record-keeping requirements. Identify and review
all current Recordkeeping and records management procedures. Continuous
review of procedures. The management of Records Classification Systems (ie
DoD Correspondence File Plan, Record retention schedules). Administer
clients' requests for amendments and additions to records classification
systems. Answer enquiries wrt the correct use of file references. Execute all
administrative tasks wrt the maintenance of the records classification systems.
Maintain and update the paper-based master copy of the records classification
systems by adding additions and amendments when necessary. Ensure that
the electronic version and the paper-based version of the records classification
systems are always synchronized.
ENQUIRIES : Maj T. Qwakele Tel No: (012) 351 2567/WO2 N.S. Dithatho Tel No: (012) 351
2773
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Air Force Mobile Deployment Wing Snake Valley
Road, Private Bag X1008, Thaba Tshwane, 0143 or may be hand deliver at
Snake Valley Road, 356 JR, Centurion or email to
mobiledeploymentwing@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/25 : SECRETARY REF NO: AFBWKLF/01/42/25/05
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : AFB Waterkloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 or equivalent. Secretarial/Administration experience
will be an advantage. Special requirements (skills needed): Knowledge of MS
Word, Excel and Power Point. Typing skills. Language proficiency in English
(written and verbal). Analytical and innovative thinking as well as problem
solving skills. Excellent Interpersonal Skills. Sound organisational skills. High
level of reliability. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Good people skills.
Ability to do research and analyse documents and situations. Excellent
secretarial skills.
DUTIES : Provide a Secretarial Support Service. Record appointments and events and
manage the Manager’s diary. Receive Telephone calls and refer to the correct
18
role players. Be responsible for the roll call of the Unit daily. Provide secretarial
functions in board meetings. Write/type documents, memorandums, letters and
reports. Compile agenda’s and take minutes during meetings. Compile
minutes correctly. Deal with classified files and documents. Arrange meetings
and events for Manager. Process the travel and subsistence claims for the
Manager. Identify venues, invite role players, organise refreshments and set
up schedules for meetings and events. Collect all relevant documents for
meetings. Keep Manager’s directory. Liaise with travel agencies to make travel
arrangements. Prepare briefing and notes for the Manager as required. Keep
a filing system. Organise social functions. Operate office equipment. Order
and purchase stationary. Keep updated with policy and procedures. Co-
ordinate logistical arrangements for meetings when required. Co-ordinate all
logistical arrangements for visitors visiting the Manager. Monitor the Unit
monthly leave register and telephone bills, ensuring payment is submitted on
time. Remain abreast with the procedures and processes that apply in the
office of the Manager. Provide support to Manager regarding meetings and
scrutinize documents to determine actions/information/other documents
required for meetings. Record all minutes/decisions and communicate to all
relevant role players and make follow-ups on progress. Prepare briefing notes
for the Manager as requested. Handle S&T advances and claims.
ENQUIRIES : Maj B Lekgokgola/F Sgt L Roos Tel No: (012) 672 3055/3
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Air Force Base Waterkloof, Private Bag X1001,
Lyttleton, 0140 or may be hand delivered at Solomon Mahlangu Drive (M10)
378 JR, Centurion Department of Defence, Air Force Base Waterkloof, PO. Box
X1001, Lyttleton, 0140 or may be hand deliver at Solomon Mahlangu Drive
(M10) 378 JR, Centurion or email to afbwklfhr@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/26 : SECRETARY REF NO: SAAFHQUNIT/01/42/25/C3
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : SAAF Headquarters Unit, Dequar Road, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. Secretarial/Administration
experience will be an advantage. Special requirements (skills needed):
Knowledge of MS Word, Excel and Power Point. Typing skills. Language
proficiency in English (written and verbal). Analytical and innovative thinking as
well as problem solving skills. Excellent interpersonal skills. Sound
organisational skills. High level of reliability. Ability to act with tact and
discretion. Good people skills. Ability to do research and analyse documents
and situations. Excellent secretarial skills. A background as legal secretary will
be an advantage.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial support service. Record appointments and events and
manage the Manager’s diary. Receive telephone calls and refer to the correct
role players. Be responsible for the roll call of the Unit daily. Provide secretarial
functions in board meetings. Write/type documents, memorandums, letters and
reports. Compile agenda’s and take minutes during meetings. Compile minutes
correctly. Deal with classified files and documents. Arrange meetings and
events for Manager. Process the travel and subsistence claims for the
Manager. Identify venues, invite role players, organise refreshments and set
up schedules for meetings and events. Collect all relevant documents for
meetings. Keep Manager’s directory. Liaise with travel agencies to make travel
arrangements. Prepare briefing and notes for the Manager as required. Keep
a filing system. Organise social functions. Operate office equipment. Order and
purchase stationary. Keep updated with policy and procedures. Co-ordinate
logistical arrangements for meetings when required. Co-ordinate all logistical
arrangements for visitors visiting the Manager. Monitor the Unit monthly leave
register and telephone bills, ensuring payment is submitted on time. Remain
abreast with the procedures and processes that apply in the office of the
Manager. Provide support to Manager regarding meetings and scrutinize
documents to determine actions/information/other documents required for
meetings. Record all minutes/decisions and communicate to all relevant role
players and make follow-ups on progress. Prepare briefing notes for the
Manager as requested. Handle S&T advances and claims.
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col J. Songca Tel No: (012) 312 2343
19
APPLICATIONS : South African Air Force, Dequar Road, Private Bag X199, Pretoria, 0001 or
may be hand deliver at 07 Dequar road, CBD, Pretoria or email to
saafunithr@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/27 : SWITCHBOARD OPERATOR REF NO: AFBWKLF/01/42/25/07 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : AFB Waterkloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent, experience in switchboard
procedures will be an added advantage. Special requirements (Skills needed):
Knowledge on operating a Telephone automatic Switchboard. Language
proficiency in English (written and verbal). Excellent Telecom Operator/
Switchboard Skills. Good telephone etiquette.
DUTIES : Ensure that switchboard is properly manned and that relief arrangements are
made when needed so that telephone traffic flows properly and are always in
a proper working order, report all defect and ensure that repairs are done
speedily. Ensure that switchboard apparatus is handled properly to prevent
unnecessary interruption of telephone enquiries. Check private calls and see
to it that costs are recovered. Train new and relief staff. Keep departmental
telephone directory up to date and distribute amendments as and when
necessary. Arrange for the installation and moving of telephones. Record and
maintain a register for security related purposes. Liaise with personnel division
when recruiting and selecting telecom operators. Supervise subordinates.
Assist with the performance assessments/incentives of subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Maj B. Lekgokgola/F Sgt L. Roos Tel No: (012) 672 3055
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Air Force Base Waterkloof P.O. Box X1001, Lyttleton,
0140 or may be hand deliver at Solomon Mahlangu Drive (M10) 378 JR,
Centurion Department of Defence, Air Force Base Waterkloof, PO. Box X1001,
Lyttleton, 0140 or may be hand deliver at Solomon Mahlangu Drive (M10) 378
JR, Centurion or email to afbwklfhr@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/28 : SWITCHBOARD OPERATOR REF NO: SAAF HQ UNIT REF NO:
01/42/2504/D4 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : SAAF Headquarters Unit, Dequar Road, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent, experience in switchboard
procedures will be an added advantage. Special requirements (Skills needed):
Knowledge on operating a Telephone automatic Switchboard. Language
proficiency in English (written and verbal). Analytical and innovative thinking as
well as problem solving skills. Excellent interpersonal skills. Sound
Organisational Skills. High level of Reliability. Ability to act with tact and
discretion. Good people skills. Excellent Telecom Operator/ Switchboard Skills.
Receive and answer incoming calls. Forward calls to the appropriate
division/section/person, answer general enquiries, make calls and keep record
of private calls. Record and maintain a register for security-related purpose.
Note down and give messages to the people. Interpersonal relationships,
audible voice and ability to verbally exchange information requiring helpfulness
and politeness. Member must be able to sit for longer period, work under
pressure, over time and be physically fit.
DUTIES : Ensure that switchboard is properly manned and that relief arrangements are
made when needed so that telephone traffic flows properly and are always in
a proper working order, report all defect and ensure that repairs are done
speedily. Ensure that switchboard apparatus is handled properly to prevent
unnecessary interruption of telephone enquiries. Check private calls and see
to it that costs are recovered. Train new and relief staff. Keep departmental
telephone directory up to date and distribute amendments as and when
necessary. Arrange for the installation and moving of telephones. Record and
maintain a register for security related purposes. Liaise with personnel division
20
when recruiting and selecting telecom operators. Supervise subordinates.
Assist with the performance assessments/incentives of subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col J. Songca Tel No: (012) 312 2343
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Air Force Headquarters Unit, Private
Bag X199, Pretoria, 0001 or may be hand deliver at 07 Dequar road, CBD,
Pretoria or email to: saafunithr@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/29 : SWITCHBOARD OPERATOR REF NO: SAAFCOL/01/42/25/3C (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : SA Air Force College, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent, experience in switchboard
procedures will be an added advantage. Special requirements (Skills needed):
Knowledge on operating a Telephone automatic Switchboard. Language
proficiency in English (written and verbal). Excellent Telecom Operator/
Switchboard Skills. Good telephone etiquette. Good communication skills
(Verbal and Non-verbal).
DUTIES : Ensure that switchboard is properly manned and that relief arrangements are
made when needed so that telephone traffic flows properly and are always in
a proper working order, report all defect and ensure that repairs are done
speedily. Ensure that switchboard apparatus is handled properly to prevent
unnecessary interruption of telephone enquiries. Check private calls and see
to it that costs are recovered. Train new and relief staff. Keep departmental
telephone directory up to date and distribute amendments as and when
necessary. Arrange for the installation and moving of telephones. Record and
maintain a register for security related purposes. Liaise with personnel division
when recruiting and selecting telecom operators. Supervise subordinates.
Assist with the performance assessments/incentives of subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Maj K.L. Bosch Tel No: (012) 351 5045/5172
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Air Force College, Private Bag X1008, Thaba
Tshwane, 0143 or may be hand deliver at Abraham Kriel Road, Thaba
Tshwane, Centurion or email to saafcolhr@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/30 : SWITCHBOARD OPERATOR REF NO: MDW 01/42/25/01/A (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Air Force Mobile Deployment Wing
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent, experience in switchboard
procedures will be an added advantage. Special requirements (Skills needed):
Knowledge on operating a Telephone automatic Switchboard. Language
proficiency in English (written and verbal). Analytical and innovative thinking as
well as problem solving skills. Excellent interpersonal skills. Sound
organisational skills. High level of reliability. Ability to act with tact and
discretion. Good people skills. Excellent telecom operator/ switchboard skills.
Receive and answer incoming calls. Forward calls to the appropriate
division/section/person, answer general enquiries, make calls and keep record
of private calls. Record and maintain a register for security-related purpose.
Note down and give messages to the people. Interpersonal relationships,
audible voice and ability to verbally exchange information requiring helpfulness
and politeness. Member must be able to sit for longer period, work under
pressure, over time and be physically fit.
DUTIES : Ensure that switchboard is properly manned and that relief arrangements are
made when needed so that telephone traffic flows properly and are always in
a proper working order, report all defect and ensure that repairs are done
speedily. Ensure that switchboard apparatus is handled properly to prevent
unnecessary interruption of telephone enquiries. Check private calls and see
to it that costs are recovered. Train new and relief staff. Keep departmental
telephone directory up to date and distribute amendments as and when
necessary. Arrange for the installation and moving of telephones. Record and
21
maintain a register for security related purposes. Liaise with personnel division
when recruiting and selecting telecom operators. Supervise subordinates.
Assist with the performance assessments/incentives of subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Maj T. Qwakele Tel No: (012) 351 2567/WO2 N.S. Dithatho Tel No: (012) 351
2773
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Air Force Mobile Deployment Wing Snake Valley
Road, Private Bag X1008, Thaba Tshwane, 0143 or may be hand deliver at
Snake Valley Road, 356 JR, Centurion or email to
mobiledeploymentwing@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/31 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: AFBWKLF01/42/25/04 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : AFB Waterkloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Good communication (verbal/written) and Interpersonal skills.
Knowledge of health and safety. Knowledge of basic maintenance of
machinery with low level of complexity in operating it. Knowledge of basic hand
tools and cleaning equipment. Ability to operate cleaning machines Ability to
perform routine tasks. Ability to work in team and individually.
DUTIES : Cultivate garden areas. Prepare soil for the planting of plants. Maintain flower
and other beds by fertilizing, irrigating, weeding and pruning. Mow lawns and
cut edges. Load and unload various articles and equipment needed on the
grounds. Irrigate lawns. Remove refuge from the terrain. Load refuge on the
truck for transportation to refuge dumps or burn refuge. Maintain neatness of
unit areas.
ENQUIRIES : Maj B. Lekgokgola /F Sgt L. Roos Tel No: (012) 672 3055
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Air Force Base Waterkloof, P.O. Box 1001, Lyttleton,
0140 or may be hand delivered at Solomon Mahlangu Drive (M10) 378 JR,
Centurion, Department of Defence, Air Force Base Waterkloof, PO. Box
X1001, Lyttleton, 0140 or may be hand deliver at Solomon Mahlangu Drive
(M10) 378 JR, Centurion or email to afbwklfhr@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/32 : CLEANER REF NO: AFBWKLF/01/42/25/8 (X13 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : AFB Waterkloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special Requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Knowledge of
basic maintenance of machinery with low level of complexity in operating it.
Knowledge of basic hand tools and cleaning equipment. Ability to operate
cleaning machines. Ability to perform routine tasks. Ability to work in team and
individually.
DUTIES : Perform cleaning related duties in offices and other facilities as determined by
Supervisor (i.e. sweeping, vacuuming, window cleaning, dusting, polishing
furniture and floors). Clean ablution facilities. Report any defects in the work
place to immediate supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Maj B. Lekgokgola/F Sgt L. Roos Tel No: (012) 672 3055
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Air Force Base Waterkloof P.O. Box X1001, Lyttleton,
0140 or may be hand deliver at Solomon Mahlangu Drive (M10) 378 JR,
Centurion Department of Defence, Air Force Base Waterkloof, PO. Box X1001,
Lyttleton, 0140 or may be hand deliver at Solomon Mahlangu Drive (M10) 378
JR, Centurion or email to afbwklfhr@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
22
POST 42/33 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: AFBWKLF/01/42/25/9 (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : AFB Waterkloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements/ skills
needed: Knowledge: of a limited range of work procedures such as planning
and organizing, equipment use, food preparation, etc.
DUTIES : Rendering assistance with the preparation and serving of food/drinks in all its
forms by: Hygienically preparation (i.e. wash, cut and cook) and serving of
food. Preparing and serving tea, coffee and drinks. Supplying water on dining
tables. Keeping kitchen, dining hall and food storage areas clean and tidy.
Removing all kitchen waste. Packing supplies received in the food storage
areas. Washing and cleaning up after meals. Setting tables (including
decoration thereof). Waiting on tables. Ensure only authorized personnel have
access to kitchen and/or consume meals. Ensure serviceability of equipment
and report any defects or shortages. Apply a high standard of hygiene as well
as safety measures in work environment.
ENQUIRIES : Maj B. Lekgokgola/F Sgt L. Roos Tel No: (012) 672 3055
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Air Force Base Waterkloof P.O. Box X1001, Lyttleton,
0140 or may be hand deliver at Solomon Mahlangu Drive (M10) 378 JR,
Centurion Department of Defence, Air Force Base Waterkloof, PO. Box X1001,
Lyttleton 0140 or may be hand deliver at Solomon Mahlangu Drive (M10) 378
JR, Centurion or email to afbwklfhr@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/34 : STORE ASSISTANT REF NO: AFBWKLF/01/42/25/10 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : AFB Waterkloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Good Communication (verbal/written) and Interpersonal Skills, an
eye for detail and basic numerical skills.
DUTIES : Provide a productive service regarding store equipment. Must be familiar with
prescribed Fire Order (DD19) in store. Must be familiar with the use of fire
extinguishing apparatus. Ensure that all equipment or goods are received
correctly and in good condition. Must be able to complete register for
equipment received and issued. Execute all ad hoc store tasks as issued by
order.
ENQUIRIES : Maj B. Lekgokgola/F Sgt L. Roos Tel No: (012) 672 3055
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Air Force Base Waterkloof P.O. Box X1001, Lyttleton,
0140 or may be hand deliver at Solomon Mahlangu Drive (M10) 378 JR,
Centurion Department of Defence, Air Force Base Waterkloof, PO. Box X1001,
Lyttleton 0140 or may be hand deliver at Solomon Mahlangu Drive (M10) 378
JR, Centurion or email to afbwklfhr@dod.mil.za
POST 42/35 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: 68AIRSCHL/01/42/25/03C (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : 68 Air School, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements/ skills
needed: Knowledge of a limited range of work procedures such as planning
and organizing, equipment use, food preparation, etc.
DUTIES : Rendering assistance with the preparation and serving of food/drinks in all its
forms by: Hygienically preparation (i.e. wash, cut and cook) and serving of
food. Preparing and serving tea, coffee and drinks. Supplying water on dining
tables. Keeping kitchen, dining hall and food storage areas clean and tidy.
Removing all kitchen waste. Packing supplies received in the food storage
areas. Washing and cleaning up after meals. Setting tables (including
decoration thereof). Waiting on tables. Ensure only authorized personnel have
access to kitchen and/or consume meals. Ensure serviceability of equipment
and report any defects or shortages. Apply a high standard of hygiene as well
as safety measures in work environment.
ENQUIRIES : Maj V. Mahlangu/WO2 S.B. Malaza Tel No: (012) 672 5039/5021
23
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, 68 Air School, Private Bag X15088, Lyttelton, 0140 or
may be hand deliver at Snake Valley Road, 356 JR, Centurion or email to
oc68airschool@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/36 : STORE ASSISTANT REF NO: 68AIRSCHL/01/42/25/04D (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : 68 Air School, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Good Communication (verbal/written) and Interpersonal Skills, basic
numeracy skills.
DUTIES : Provide a productive service regarding store equipment. Must be familiar with
prescribed Fire Order (DD19) in store. Must be familiar with the use of fire
extinguishing apparatus. Ensure that all equipment or goods are received
correctly and in good condition. Must be able to complete register for
equipment received and issued. Execute all ad hoc store tasks as issued by
order.
ENQUIRIES : Maj V. Mahlangu/WO2 S.B. Malaza Tel No: (012) 672 5039/5021
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, 68 Air School, Private Bag X15088, Lyttelton, 0140 or
may be hand deliverd at Snake Valley Road, 356 JR, Centurion or email to
oc68airschool@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/37 : CLEANER REF NO: SAAFCOL/01/42/25/4D (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : SA Air Force College, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Knowledge of
basic maintenance of machinery with low level of complexity in operating it.
Knowledge of basic hand tools and cleaning equipment. Ability to operate
cleaning machines. Ability to perform routine tasks. Ability to work in team and
individually.
DUTIES : Perform cleaning related duties in offices and other facilities as determined by
Supervisor (i.e. sweeping, vacuuming, window cleaning, dusting, polishing
furniture and floors). Clean ablution facilities. Report any defects in the
workplace to immediate supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Maj K.L. Bosch Tel No: (012) 351 5045/5172
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Air Force College, Private Bag X1008, Thaba
Tshwane, 0143 or may be hand deliver to Abraham Kriel Road, Thaba
Tshwane, Centurion or email to saafcolhr@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/38 : HOUSEHOLD AID REF NO: SAAFCOL/01/42/25/5E (X9 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : SA Air Force College, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Communicate effectively.
DUTIES : Perform cleaning related duties in offices and other facilities as determined by
Supervisor (i.e. sweeping, vacuuming, window cleaning, dusting, polishing
furniture and floors). Clean ablution facilities. Maintain cleanliness in the
bungalow of students. Report any defects in the workplace to immediate
supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Maj K.L. Bosch Tel No: (012) 351 5045/5172
24
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Air Force College, Private Bag X1008, Thaba
Tshwane, 0143 or may be hand deliver to Abraham Kriel Road, Thaba
Tshwane, Centurion or email to saafcolhr@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/39 : GENERAL STORE ASSISTANT REF NO: SAAF HQ UNIT 01/42/2504/D4
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : SAAF Headquarters Unit, Dequar Road, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Good communication (verbal/written) and Interpersonal skills and
good numerical skills.
DUTIES : Provide a productive servicer regarding store equipment. Must be familiar with
prescribed Fire Order (DD19) in store. Must be familiar with the use of fire
extinguishing apparatus. Ensure that all equipment or goods are received
correctly and in good condition. Must be able to complete register for
equipment received and issued. Execute all ad hoc store tasks as issued by
order.
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col J. Songca Tel No: (012) 312 2343
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Air Force Headquarters Unit, Private
Bag X199, Pretoria, 0001 or may be hand deliver at 07 Dequar road, CBD,
Pretoria or email to saafunithr@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/40 : MESSENGER REF NO: SAAF HQ/01/42/25/F6 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : SAAF Headquarters Unit, Dequar Road, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Military Driver’s license is an
added advantage. Special requirements (Skills needed): Honesty, Integrity,
Good Interpersonal Relationship skills; Planning and Organizing skills; Verbal
and Communication skills; Analytical skills; Problem solving and Time
management skills.
DUTIES : Required to perform the following functions: Render an effective driving service
base. Ensure vehicle security and maintenance. Render administrative and
messenger services, including collecting and dispatching of documents and
any other item as directed. Complete all the required and prescribed records
and log books with regard to the vehicles and goods handled. Maintain the
vehicle distribution board. Be willing to work irregular hours
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col J. Songca Tel No: (012) 312 2343
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Air Force Headquarters Unit, Private
Bag X199, Pretoria, 0001 or may be hand deliver at 07 Dequar road, CBD,
Pretoria or email to: saafunithr@dod.mil.za
NOTE : Short-listed candidates will undergo a driving and competency test. It is the
Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through
the filling of this posts with candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment
will promote representivity in line with the numeric targets as contained in our
Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/41 : CLEANER REF NO: SAAF HQ REF NO: 01/42/25/G7 (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : SAAF Headquarters Unit, Dequar Road, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Knowledge of
basic maintenance of machinery with low level of complexity in operating it.
Knowledge of basic hand tools and cleaning equipment. Ability to operate
cleaning machines. Ability to perform routine tasks. Ability to work in team and
individually.
DUTIES : Perform cleaning related duties in offices and other facilities as determined by
Supervisor (i.e. sweeping, vacuuming, window cleaning, dusting, polishing
25
furniture and floors). Clean ablution facilities. Report any defects in the
workplace to immediate supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col J. Songca Tel No: (012) 312 2343
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Air Force Headquarters Unit, Private
Bag X199, Pretoria, 0001 or may be hand deliver at 07 Dequar road, CBD,
Pretoria or email to: saafunithr@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 42/42 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: SAAF MDW/01/42/25/01/C
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : AFB Mobile Deployment Wing, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Knowledge of a limited range of work procedures such as planning
and organizing, equipment use, food preparation, etc.
DUTIES : Rendering assistance with the preparation and serving of food/drinks in all its
forms by: Hygienically preparation (i.e. wash, cut and cook) and serving of
food. Preparing and serving tea, coffee and drinks. Supplying water on dining
tables. Keeping kitchen, dining hall and food storage areas clean and tidy.
Removing all kitchen waste. Packing supplies received in the food storage
areas. Washing and cleaning up after meals. Setting tables (including
decoration thereof). Waiting on tables. Ensure only authorized personnel have
access to kitchen and/or consume meals. Ensure serviceability of equipment
and report any defects or shortages. Apply a high standard of hygiene as well
as safety measures in work environment.
ENQUIRIES : Maj T. Qwakele Tel No: (012) 351 2567/WO2 N.S. Dithatho Tel No: (012) 351
2773
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Air Force Mobile Deployment Wing Snake Valley
Road, Private Bag X1008, Thaba Tshwane, 0143 or may be hand deliver at
Snake Valley Road, 356 JR, Centurion or email to
mobiledeploymentwing@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
26
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 00:00 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the correct
job title in full as it is on the advert not abbreviations and the reference number
of the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address
associated with the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be
accepted. Failure to do so, your application will be disqualified. Applications
quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the new form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect application
for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each post(s) advert must be
accompanied by its own application form for employment and must be fully
completed, initialled and signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to
fully complete, initial and sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the
application during the selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of
the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on
the Z83 it is acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached.
However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under
Part “F” must be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated
comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience if any) and a completed
and signed new Z83 application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other related
documents on or before the day of the interview following the communication
from Human Resources and such qualification(s) and other related
document(s) will be in line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA
Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The
Department does not accept applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply
with the abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well as applications
received late will not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested
documents will result in the application not being considered. Correspondence
will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate’s suitability based on the posts’s technical and generic
requirements. If you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability
check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification
verification and employment verification). Please note by responding to the
advertisement, you consent to the collection, processing, and storing of your
Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA) Your information will be used soley for the purpose of this
promotion and will not be shared with third parties without prior consent unless
required by law. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s). The successful candidate will
be required to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative action
employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform the
employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race,
gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
OTHER POSTS
POST 42/43 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT REF NO: HR
4/4/1/04
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Provincial Office: East London
27
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma NQF6/Undergraduate Degree NQF7
qualification in Human Resource Management/ Labour Relations/ Labour Law/
Training and Development. Valid driver’s licence. Five (5) years’ experience of
which two (2) years at the Middle Management level (Assistant Director) and
three (3) years functional experience in HRM environment. Knowledge: Human
Resource Management Policies. Human Resources Systems and Procedures.
Performance Management. Project Management. Public Service Act,
Regulations and Resolutions. Recruitment and Selection Strategies. Code of
Remuneration. All Labour Legislations. Code of good conduct in the Public
Service. Departmental Policies and Procedures. Batho Pele Principles. Human
Resource Management Practices and Systems. Legislative requirements:
Public Service Act. Public Service Regulations. Skills: Management.
Interpersonal. Communication (Verbal and Written). Computer literacy.
Negotiation. Presentation. Report writing. People Management. Problem
solving. Decision making skills.
DUTIES : Manage the Human Resource support services and the implementation of all
the Human Resource policies, procedures and relevant prescripts in the
province. Manage the effective implementation of recruitment and selection
and all Service Benefits. Manage the coordination of Human Resource
Development interventions. To effectively manage the employee health and
wellness Programmes. To Provide Sound Employee Relations. Management
of resources in the Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mbongwana Tel No: (043) 701 3128
APPLICATIONS : Acting Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X9005, East London,
5201 Or hand deliver at No.3 Hill Street, East London. Email: Jobs-
EC2@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, East London
POST 42/44 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT (IT AUDIT) REF NO:
HR4/25/11/07HO
(Re-advertisement, those who previously applied should not re-apply)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years National Diploma (NQF 6)/ Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF 7) in Auditing / Accounting / Financial Information System / BCom
Information Management / Information Systems/ BSc IT / Computer Science.
Four (4) years’ experience of which two (2) years at Supervisory level as
(Senior Internal Auditors (ITC) and two (2) years’ experience in Information
Communication and Technology Audit. Valid driver’s license. Registration with
Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA). Knowledge: Internal Audit Methodology,
Information Technology Frameworks (CoBiT, ITIL, ISO, Public Finance and
Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulation, Public Service
Regulations, Public Service Act, National Treasury Internal Audit Frameworks,
Public Sector Risk Management Frameworks, King Report on Corporate
Governance (II and III), Framework for Managing Performance Information,
International Internal Audit Standards, International Financial Reporting
Standards, International Accounting Standards, Generally Recognized
Accounting Practice (GRAP), Departmental Internal Audit Activity, Audit and
Risk Committee Charter, Departmental Legislative and regulatory framework
(LRA,BCEA,PAIA etc.)
DUTIES : Plan the allocated audit assignment according to the approved Internal Audit
Plan. Conduct Audit Projects according to the approved Internal Audit Plan.
Manage resource of the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Mangaye Tel No: (012) 309 4205
APPLICATIONS : The Chief Director: Human Resources Management, Private Bag X117,
Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ27@labour.gov.za
POST 42/45 : EMPLOYMENT SERVICES PRACTITIONER (ESP 2) REF NO: HR4/4/1/37
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Mdantsane
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year relevant qualification in Social Science (Psychology, Industrial
Psychology) Public Administration/Business Management/Public
Management, Valid driver’s licence. Two (2) Years functional experience in a
client oriented environment. Knowledge: Employment Service Act,
28
Unemployment Insurance Act, Public Service Ac, Immigration Act, Skills
Development Act, Social Plan Guidelines, Human Resources Management,
Public Financial Management Act, ILO conversions related PES. Skills:
Planning and Organizing, Communication skills, Computer, Analytical,
Presentation, Interpersonal, Report writing, Networking, Negotiation,
Marketing.
DUTIES : Marketing PES Services to stakeholders to acquire opportunities and conduct
recruitment, selection, referral and placement of registered work seekers.
Process requests for International Cross Board Labour Migration and advise
on the availability of skills. Process applications for registration of Public
Employment Agency (PEA) and Temporary Employment Schemes (TES).
Supervise provision of registration and referral of work seekers for the
Department, Monitor the implementation of employment schemes, Labour
Activation programmes (LAP) projects and Temporary Relief-Schemes.
Supervise the administration of employer services at the labour centre.
ENQUIRIES : Mr LB Mduduma Tel No: (043) 285 0400
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Private Bag X19, Mdantsane, 5219
or hand deliver at Department of Employment and Labour Mazaule Street,
N.U.1, Mdantsane. E-mail: Jobs-EC10@labour.gov.za
POST 42/46 : INSPECTOR: INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT SERVICES REF NO:
HR4/4/10/60
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year relevant qualification in Labour Relations/ BCOM Law/ LLB.
Valid driver’s license. One (1) year functional experience in Inspection and
Enforcement Services. Knowledge: Departmental Policies and procedures,
Skills Development Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of Employment
Act, Unemployment Insurance Act. Unemployment Insurance Contribution Act.
Skills: Facilitation, Planning and Organising (Own work), Computer (Spread
sheets, Power Point and word processing), Interpersonal, Problem Solving,
Interviewing, Analytical, Verbal and written communication, Employment Equity
Act.
DUTIES : Plan and independently conduct occupational inspections with the aim of
ensuring compliance with the Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA).
Execute investigations on reported cases pertaining to contravention of labour
legislation and enforce where and when necessary. Plan and conduct proactive
(Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with labour legislation.
Conduct advocacy campaigns on all Labour Legislation independently. Draft
and maintain inspection plans and reports including analysis and compilation
of consolidated statistical reports on allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Zaula Tel No: (047) 501 5600
APPLICATIONS : No 18 Corner of Madeira & Elliot Streets, Old Manpower Building, Mthatha,
5100 Labour Centre. Operations Private Bag X5080, Umtata, 5100. Email:
Jobs-ECUTT@labour.gov.za
POST 42/47 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: PES REF NO: HR/4/4/1/25
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Graaff-Reinet Labour Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ National Senior Certificate. No experience required. Valid driver’s
licence will be an added advantage. Knowledge: Departmental policies,
procedures and guidelines, Labour Legislation and Regulations, Employment
Services Act, Public Service Act and Regulations, Batho Pele principles. Skills:
Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, Interviewing, Computer Literacy,
Communication (verbal and written), Listening, Problem solving, Ability to
interpret legislation.
DUTIES : Render registration services of work-seekers on ESSA. Render registration
services of work and learning opportunities on ESSA. Refer work seekers for
Employment Counselling services. Provide administrative support with the
placement of work seekers in work and learning opportunities. Render general
administrative duties and participate in advocacy sessions as and when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Mshumpela Tel No: (049) 892 2142
29
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, PO Box 342, Graaf-Reinet, 6280,
Hand deliver at 63 Church Street, Graaf-Reinet, 6280. Email: Jobs-
ECGRN@labour.gov.za
POST 42/48 : DRIVER REF NO: HR 4/4/1/154
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: East London, Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10. Valid Driver’s license and PDP. Knowledge: Departmental policies
and procedures, Planning and organizing, Administration procedures, Batho
Pele principles, Interpersonal relations, Courier services. Skills: Driving skills,
Interpersonal, Communication (verbal and written), Computer literacy,
Telephone etiquette, Organisation, Negotiation.
DUTIES : Provide effective and efficient Messenger Driver Services. Assist in the process
of maintenance, repairing and servicing of vehicles. Render registry and office
administration support services in the office.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MM Nohesi Tel No: (043) 701 3029
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X9005, East London, 5201,
Hand deliver at No.3 Hill Street, East London. Email: Jobs-
EC10@labour.gov.za
30
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer.
APPLICATIONS : Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of Forestry, Fisheries
and the Environment, Private Bag X447, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-delivered to:
Environment House, Erf 1563 Arcadia Extension 6, Cnr Soutpansberg and
Steve Biko Road, Arcadia, Pretoria. or can be emailed to the respective email
address quoting the reference number on the subject email.
CLOSING DATE : 01 December 2025, 16:00
FOR ATTENTION : Human Resource Management
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. All attachments for online application must include an
application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or
attachment, indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the post
on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address associated with
the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, Senior
Certificate, identity document and driver’s license on or before the day of the
interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National
Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. Preference may be given to appointable applicants
from the underrepresented designated groups in terms of the Department’s
equity plan. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence
will be limited to successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be
subjected to screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for
employment, including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status;
Credit worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entryprogramme/.Furthermore, candidates shortlisted for the SMS post will be
subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job. Following the interview and the technical exercise, the
Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments. The person appointed to
this position will be subjected to a security clearance, the signing of
performance agreement and employment contract. The Department reserves
the right not to make an appointment. By submitting the employment
application form, you agree and consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your
personal information which you provide to the DFFE to being processed by the
department and its employees, agents, Cabinet committees, and
subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in accordance with the POPIA of
2013. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after the closing
date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful.
OTHER POSTS
POST 42/49 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: WOODLANDS AND INDIGENOUS FOREST
MANAGEMENT REF NO: BC31/2025
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Kwa-Zulu Natal
31
REQUIREMENTS : Degree/ National Diploma (NQF6) in Forestry / Environmental Science /
Environmental Management or Relevant qualification in the related field. . A
minimum of five years (5) years’ experience in the related field of which three
(3) years should be at an entry/ junior level (Assistant Director level or
equivalent). Extensive knowledge in Woodlands and indigenous Forest and
Commercial Forestry. The ability to interpret and apply related legislation and
policies, National Forestry Act (NFA) National Veld and Forest Fire Act
(NVFFA). NEMA, NEMBA, Public Service Act, PFMA including Labour
Relations Act and other Environmental legislations. Knowledge of project
management Skills: Planning and organising, Policy development and
analysis, People management/ Human Resources/ Leadership, Facilitation
and Negotiation, excellent communication (verbal, presentation awareness
raising and report writing), and problem-solving skills. The incumbent must be
able to work independently and efficiently under pressure. The candidate must
have a valid driver's license and willing to travel.
DUTIES : Manage and develop policies, norms, standards, tools and procedures for
sustainable management of indigenous forests and woodlands. Manage
conservation planning and compliance with national and international
biodiversity Management frameworks. Identify priority forest for protection and
rehabilitation. Determine relative conservation and socio-economic values of
forest patches as well as threats. Ensure ecological forest monitoring. Conduct
national Principle, Criteria, Indicators and Standards (PCI&S) audits. Ensure
that site inspection is conducted. Ensure Integrated Environment plan for
indigenous forest and resources of the Sub directorate (Physical, Human &
Financial resources). Analyse the impact of environmental assessments.
Ensure compliance and monitoring of Environmental legislation, especially
NFA and NVFFA. Managing achievements of the Regional Annual Plan of
Operation. Develop and provide forest management guidelines, norms, best
practice to the WIFM regions (KZN). Evaluate and monitor performance and
appraisal of the employees. Manage discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. T Ramatshimbila Tel No: (012) 309 5716
APPLICATIONS : BC31-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 42/50 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A: LOCAL
GOVERNMENT SUPPORT (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R612 480 per annum
CENTRE : ZF Mgcawu District Municipality Ref No: EP31/2025
Garden Route District Municipality Ref No: EP32/2025
REQUIREMENTS : A four (4) year degree in environmental or natural science or relevant
equivalent qualification recognised by SAQA, coupled with (6) years post
qualification experience in a related field. Sound knowledge of Local
Government, Environmental Management, EPWP, Strategic Planning,
Procedures and Departmental policies, Ability to manage and plan for activities,
including projects and policy matters. Ability to develop, interpret and apply
polices, strategies and legislation. Knowledge of HR management practices,
legal issues, negotiations and dealing with conflict. Assist in career planning
and effective deployment of personnel. Ability to control and manage the
budget of the directorate. Sufficient knowledge of specific computer software
packages and efficient use of associated hardware. Good interpersonal
relations skills, Stakeholder engagement, Negotiation, Research Strategic
Capability and Leadership skills. Programme, Project Management, Financial
Management, Change Management, Knowledge Management skills. Service
Delivery Innovation (SDI). Client Orientation and Customer Focus. Ability to
gather and analyse information, develop and apply policies, work individually
and in team, Ability to work under pressure. Ability to work with difficult persons
and to resolve conflict. Good interpersonal relations skills. Creativity. Honesty,
Sense of responsibility and loyalty.
DUTIES : Facilitate the mainstreaming or integration of environmental sustainability in
the IDP across all environmental themes, conduct IDP analysis for the District
and Local Municipalities, conduct Environmental Impact Assessment Project
screening for municipal projects, provide feedback to all municipalities on IDP
analysis and recommendations for improvement. participate in the IDP
development processes in all municipalities to improve the IDP environmental
credibility and develop and environmental chapter, when necessary, facilitate
and coordinate environmental capacity building. Conduct environment capacity
analysis in the District and Local Municipalities, Identification and capacity
32
building initiatives. Support environmental planning and management in
municipalities, provide support in the development of municipal environmental
sector plans, ensure the development and review of municipal environmental
law-making instruments. Improve environmental governance systems within
municipality, establish and coordinate municipal environmental forums in
response to legislative requirements and guided by municipal dynamics.
Facilitate and coordinate environmental awareness initiatives, support
environmental advocacy and campaigns (clean-up campaigns, environmental
calendar days and community/school environmental education and awareness
in support of municipality. Support the planning and implementation of
Environmental Management programmes and projects in Municipalities.
Consolidate and update Inventory of all Environment Projects in the
municipality, Support environmental project proposals funded or to be funded
by the departmental Environmental Programmes, municipalities, and other
funders, Identify and monitoring the reporting on Environmental Projects in the
EAC Sector, participate in provincial forums for both branch and sector.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Mphuti Tel No: (012) 399 8757
APPLICATIONS : Email: EP31-2025@dffe.gov.za
Email: EP32-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 42/51 : DEPOT OPERATIONS SPECIALIST REF NO: WB03/2025
(18 Months contract)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum, plus 37 % in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) or higher in Environmental Sciences or relevant
equivalent qualification recognised by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years’
experience in a relevant field. Knowledge of strategic planning and budgeting,
Environmental Management. Ability to develop, interpret and apply policies.
Knowledge of strategies and legislation, Knowledge of HR management
practices, legal issues, negotiations and dealing with conflict. Assist in career
planning and effective deployment of personnel, Ability to control and manage
the acquisition of services and assets of the department, and knowledge of
Public Service financial legislative frameworks. Skills needed: Leadership and
Management, Organisational and Planning, Programme and Project
Management. General and Good communications skills. Coordination skill,
Computer literacy, listening skills and Writing skills. Ability to work under
pressure; Ability to work long hours voluntarily. Ability to work under pressure.
Ability to work independently. Ability to work with difficult persons and to resolve
conflicts. Ability to gather and analyse information. Ability to develop policies
and management plans. Ability to apply policies, strategies, and legislation.
Ability to work individually, in team and to build a team. Analytical, strategic,
and integrative thinking. Good interpersonal relations skills. Ability to empower
others. character beyond reproach. Articulate and Responsible, accountable
and loyal. A valid driver’s license will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Promote environmental sound storage practices and operational efficiency.
ensure that the sites are compliant with environmental legislations. facilitate
and coordinate Memorandum of Agreements. plan and coordinate training
sessions. send out training invitation to depot operators. implement the
programs. ensure regular monitoring of site. ensure compliance with relevant
legislations. engage with the depot operators and landlords to complete the
registration form to register depots with the Competent Authority and Waste
Bureau. Prepare inspection documentation, communicate the audit plan with
the Depot Operators and other internal Officials. conduct compliance audits
and compile reports. Share the audit findings with the Senior Manager and
Depot Operators. follow up with the Depot Operators on the closure of audit
findings and areas of improvement. ensure efficient operations at Waste Tyre
Depots. Receive. verify and analyse monthly depot operation reports from
depot operations. engage with Depot Operators on any discrepancies. receive
stock availability reports from Waste Tyre Depots. draft the collection and
Processor supply plan. Consolidate monthly stock reports. Attend to all queries
related to depot operations. conduct contract compliance and performance.
communicate and address non-compliance with Depot Operators. Coordinate
depot operation meetings with Depot Operators stakeholders. develop and
schedule depot operations meetings draft meeting documents. generate and
circulate action items. ensure payment of Waste Bureau service providers:
33
Receive, print and submit invoices for authorisation and processing. Verify
each invoice against the monthly allocated budget and rendered services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Masinga Tel No: (012) 399 8629
APPLICATIONS : WB03-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 42/52 : CONTROL MARINE CONSERVATION INSPECTOR: COMPLIANCE REF
NO: FIM10/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town (Foretrust building)
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Natural Science/ Nature Conservation/
Environmental Law/Law and /or Law Enforcement or equivalent relevant
qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years experience in Law
Enforcement or relevant field. Knowledge of Marine Living Resources Act
1998, (Act No 18 of 1998). Knowledge and understanding of all relevant
legislations and regulations that govern the Public Service, including the
PFMA, Treasury regulations, Public Service Act, Labor Relations Act, Criminal
Procedure Act, Integrated Coastal Management Act, National Environmental
Management Biodiversity Act and all departmental procedures and prescripts.
Supervisory Experience Skill: Good communication (Verbal and writing),
Computer skills, planning and organizing skills. willingness to travel and work
extended hours.
DUTIES : Ensure compliance with port state measures and local policies through
inspections; Ensure that operational plans are implemented by all stations to
meet the targets regarding monitoring of landings on all fisheries sectors.
Manage issuing fines and issuing of dockets. Ensure accurate information and
knowledge management; Ensure that exhibit books, stores, equipment and
transgression registers are kept updated and inspected. Compile monthly,
quarterly and annual reports. Manage a database for the utilization of firearms
and ammunition. Strengthen enforcement efforts to intensify compliance;
Manage a database of exports and imports to improve monitoring of marine
species. Ensure that all transgressions are followed up and action taken.
Facilitate administrative and management functions. Conduct ad hoc
inspections and spot checks in hotspot areas. Attend Scientific and
management working group meetings. Create awareness on compliance with
coastal communities. Participate in cooperative governance structures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Fatima Savel at (083) 533 4919
APPLICATIONS : FIM10-2025@dffe.gov.za
NOTE : Be prepared to work overtime, flexi- hours and shift work.
POST 42/53 : CHIEF MARINE CONSERVATION INSPECTOR: MONITORING AND
SURVIELLIANCE REF NO: FIM11/2025
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town (Foretrust building)
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Natural Science/ Nature Conservation/
Environmental Law/Law and /or Law Enforcement or equivalent relevant
qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 2 years experience in Law
Enforcement and investigations or relevant field. Knowledge of Marine Living
Resources Act 1998, (Act No 18 of 1998). Knowledge and understanding of all
relevant legislations and regulations that govern the Public Service, including
the PFMA, Treasury regulations, Public Service Act, Labor Relations Act,
Criminal Procedure Act, Integrated Coastal Management Act, National
Environmental Management Biodiversity Act and all departmental procedures
and prescripts. Skill: Good communication (Verbal and writing), Computer
skills, planning and organizing skills. willingness to travel and work extended
hours.
DUTIES : Conduct investigations in terms of the MLRA and verify fishing right holders /
exemption holders and or permit holders in the 6 key fishery sectors. Gather
all information pertaining to the right, the processing, storing and marketing of
marine resources involved. Analyse information gathered to determine
compliance or non-compliance. Plan and coordinate joint enforcement
operations. Identify problem/s and challenges to be addressed through the joint
enforcement operations. Attend and report in terms of monthly and quarterly
compliance and enforcement meetings and engagements. Plan and conduct
verifications at land, air and sea borders (points of entry and exit. Inspect export
and import cargos for marine resources. Execute the planning and logistical
34
arrangements and include SAPS, NRCS, Other Government Departments,
Industry, NGOs, Fisheries Management, Regional and International Partners.
Conduct awareness on MLRA and species identification:
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Liedemann at (066) 471 1392
APPLICATIONS : FIM11-2025@dffe.gov.za
NOTE : Be prepared to work overtime, flexi- hours and shift work.
35
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(Maluti TVET College)
(Lephalale TVET College)
(Northern Cape Urban TVET College)
OTHER POSTS
POST 42/54 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR RISK, FRAUD, ETHICS AND INTERGRITY
MANAGEMENT REF NO: MALUTITVET/RFEI-016/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Corporate Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/ Grade 12/ Standard 10 or NCV Level 4.
Recognised National Diploma (NQF 6) /Degree in Risk Management/Internal
Audit or equivalent qualification. A minimum of 3 years experience in
supervisory position. Competencies and attributes: Knowledge of the relevant
prescripts, legislation and regulations. Knowledge and understanding of the
Risk Management or Internal Audit environment. Skills: Planning and
organizing. Financial management. Report writing. Communication and
interpersonal. Problem solving. Computer literacy. Analytical. Client oriented.
Project management. Team leadership. Planning and organizing. People
management.
DUTIES : Develop, review and monitor the implementation of risk, fraud, ethics and
integrity management policy. Monitor the implementation of risk, fraud, ethics
and integrity management policies. Provide Risk Management services.
Compile risk register for strategic, operational and process level. Follow up on
the implementation of the mitigating action plans that were put in place to
reduce the risk to an acceptable level. Manage fraud and anticorruption
services. Conduct investigations on allegations of corruption. Promotes ethics
and integrity management. Management of all Human, Financial and other
resources of the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Mathipe Tel No: (058) 303 1732
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be posted or hand delivered to Human Resource
Management: Maluti TVET College, Corporate Office, Private Bag X33,
Bethlehem, 9700 or hand delivered at Maluti TVET College: Corporate Office,
Corner High & Broster Street, Bethlehem, 9700. Email applications can be
forwarded to hrrecruitment@malutitvet.co.za in pdf format and as one
attachment. Indicate the relevant reference number and job title on the subject
line.
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on a
Z83 form (effective from 01 January 2021) obtainable from any Public Service
department as well as Maluti TVET College Corporate Office or from Maluti
TVET College Official website www.malutitvet.co.za. The Z83 form must be
signed, initialed and dated. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must
be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents on application but must submit the completed Z83
form and a detailed curriculum vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from HR. Foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by a SAQA evaluation report. Immigrants should apply for work
permits before assumption of duty. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied
by its own application for employment. Applicants who do not comply with the
abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received
late will not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Maluti TVET College is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. Preference will be given to Indians and
Coloured as per the EE targets of the College. People with disability are
encouraged to apply. It is the College’s intention to promote equity (race,
gender and disability) through the filling of this posts. NB: Please consider your
application as unsuccessful should you not be contacted within 60 days from
the closing date of this advertisement. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a
36
skills/knowledge/competence exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability
check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification
verification and employment verification). Successful candidates may be
required to work at other places as may reasonably be required by the
Department and the College. Maluti TVET College reserves the right to
withdraw any of the mentioned advert.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025 @13:00
POST 42/55 : SENIOR MIS OFFICER REF NO: LEPTVET 03/2025
(Re-advert)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), excluding benefits
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric or NCV Level 4 Certificate plus a recognized three (3) year Diploma
(NQF Level 6) in Information Management/ Data Management/ Information
Technology. A minimum of 2 to 3 years’ work experience in Data Management/
TVET MIS environment. Knowledge of policies and governance environment
of TVET Colleges including knowledge of the TVETMIS system, annual
reporting requirements by Higher Institutions. Knowledge and understanding
of Information Management. Knowledge, understanding, application and
interpretation of COLTECH, data warehouse and IT prescripts. Good
communication skills, planning and organising, problem solving skills,
analytical skills, financial management skills, client oriented, project
management skill and must be able to work independently and in a team. Must
be Computer literate and have a valid Driver’s Licence.
DUTIES : Effective management of the TVET Management Information System (MIS)
across the college. Setting up the system for enrolment, ensuring timely and
accurate data capturing, performing regular validations, and maintaining data
quality standards. Managing student data, extracting statistical information for
reporting purposes, and coordinating with system service providers for
upgrades and technical support. Oversee the accurate capture of approved
enrolments and registrations within specified deadlines. Compilation and
submission of weekly, monthly, and quarterly reports on student statistics, skills
programmes, learnerships, examinations, and staffing to both management
and the Department of Higher Education (DHE). Maintain and manage the
Coltech student system and related platforms, ensuring alignment with DHE
requirements through rigorous quality control and validation processes.
Oversee academic system functions such as timetabling, assessment marks,
class groupings, census dates, and curriculum records is required, along with
the application of standard calculation criteria. Monitor the administration and
timely renewal of MIS licenses, ensuring the continuous efficiency of all student
information systems.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PM Mphethi / Ms MN Morena Tel No: (014) 763 2252
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be mailed timeously to Private Bag X210, Lephalale, 0555
or hand delivered or couriered to Lephalale TVET College (Central Office),
Corner Nelson Mandela & Ngoako Ramatlhodi Drives, Onverwacht, Lephalale
0557 or the applications can alternatively be sent to:
recruitment@leptevtcol.edu.za. No late applications will be accepted.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr PM Mphethi/ Ms MN Morena
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z83 of
the Public Service Act, obtainable from any Public Service Department or any
Public Service and Administration website. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit a fully completed Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (e.g.
indicating positions held, dates and key performance areas/responsibilities).
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of the interviews following communication from the College.
Failure to submit the requested documents/information will result in your
application not being considered. Failure to comply with this requirement will
result in the candidate being disqualified. If you have not been contacted within
three (3) month after the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only and applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. The applicants must not have
previously participated in an internship programme in the Public Service. The
37
qualifications must be from an accredited institution of higher learning.
Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of race,
gender and disability will receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025 at 14:00
POST 42/56 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO:
NCUTVET/DHET 2025/09
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Kimberley (Central Office)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three (3) years National Diploma in Accounting/ Financial
Management or relevant equivalent qualification (NQF level 6). 3-5 years’
experience in the financial management environment Computer literacy in the
Microsoft. Good verbal and written communication skills, including
presentation and report writing-skills. Knowledge of financial functions,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collate
financial statistics. Knowledge of financial accounting procedure, methods and
principles established for the processing of specific salary/ financial
transactions. Knowledge of the Public Service financial legislations,
procedures and Treasury Regulations (PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA,
Financial Manual). Knowledge of financial operating systems (PERSAL, BAS,
LOGIS, COLTECH, SAGE etc
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for: Ensure overall supervision and
coordination of the annual budgeting process. Ensure overall supervision and
perform monthly budgetary and expenditure. Analysis. Ensure overall
supervision, analyse and interpret the requirements for the monthly cash flow
and adjusted cash flow as prescribed by Treasury and recommend corrective
action where required. Ensure overall supervision and coordination of budget
adjustments process. Ensure overall supervision and monitor expenditure
trends and reconciliation against budget and cash flow projections. Ensure
overall supervision, coordinate, review, analyse and quality assure the
management accounting reporting processes. Supervise human, physical and
financial resources. Compile monthly, quarterly and annual reports against the
audit plan. Compile monthly, quarterly and annual reports against the risk
register.
ENQUIRIES : A Mhlauli - HR Unit Tel No: (053) 839 2099/053 839 2074
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, Quoting the Reference Number and the
position you applying for to: The HR Department, Northern Cape TVET
College, Private Bag X5031, Kimberley, 8300 or email to
Recruitment@ncutvet.edu.za or hand deliver to HR Department at 39 Long
Street Kimberley
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the most recent Z83 application for
employment from issued by Minister for the Public Service and Administration
in line with Regulation 10 of Public Services Regulation ,2016 and a detailed
Curriculum Vitae, failure to do so will result in disqualification. The successful
candidate will be required to enter into a contract of employment and a
performance agreement. The candidate will be subjected to a security
clearance and verification of qualifications. The candidate will have to disclose
his/her financial interest. The department is committed to providing equal
opportunities and practicing affirmative action employment. It is our intention to
promote representivity: (race, gender and disability) in the Department through
the filling of posts.
CLOSING DATE : 03 December 2025
POST 42/57 : SENIOR REGISTRATION OFFICER: REGISTRATIONS REF NO:
NCUTVET/DHET 2025/10
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Kimberley (Northern Cape Urban TVET College)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma in Business Administration /Public
Management/ relevant Administration (NQF level 6). 3 years experience in the
college environment of which 2years should be on supervisory level. Computer
literacy in in the Microsoft suite and a valid driver’s license is a prerequisite.
Good verbal and written communication skills, including presentation and
report writing-skills. Knowledge of the Public TVET and Higher Education
sector and regulatory and legislative framework. Knowledge and
38
understanding of the COLTECH system, TVETMIS and ITS Knowledge of the
registration processes. Knowledge of the following Acts: Public Service, Public
Regulations, Labour Relations, PSET and CET. Advanced Computer Literacy
packages such as Microsoft Excel, Power point, MS Word, group wise Internet
etc.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for: Ensure overall supervision and
administering of student registrations. Ensure supervision and rendering of
examination and marking centre. Ensure supervision and render career
exhibition services. Provide guidance and testing of students, with regard to
choice of and placement within programmes. Maintain and update database of
students enrolled within programmes. Ensure supervision and administering of
learning materials, certificates and results. Supervise human, physical and
financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : A Mhlauli - HR Unit Tel No: (053) 839 2099/053 839 2074
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, Quoting the Reference Number and the
position you applying for to: The HR Department, Northern Cape TVET
College, Private Bag X5031, Kimberley, 8300 or email to
Recruitment@ncutvet.edu.za or hand deliver to HR Department at 39 Long
Street Kimberley
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the most recent Z83 application for
employment from issued by Minister for the Public Service and Administration
in line with Regulation 10 of Public Services Regulation ,2016 and a detailed
Curriculum Vitae, failure to do so will result in disqualification. The successful
candidate will be required to enter into a contract of employment and a
performance agreement. The candidate will be subjected to a security
clearance and verification of qualifications. The candidate will have to disclose
his/her financial interest. The department is committed to providing equal
opportunities and practicing affirmative action employment. It is our intention to
promote representivity: (race, gender and disability) in the Department through
the filling of posts.
CLOSING DATE : 03 December 2025
POST 42/58 : SENIOR LABOUR RELATIONS OFFICER: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO:
NCUTVET/DHET 2025/11
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level08)
CENTRE : Kimberley (Northern Cape Urban TVET College)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three (3) year National Diploma (NQF level 6) in Labour
Relations, Employment Relations /Human Resource Management or relevant
equivalent qualification. 3-5 years in Labour Relations or Human Resource
Management environment or related field. Computer literacy in in the Microsoft
suite and a valid driver’s license is a prerequisite. Good verbal and written
communication skills, including presentation and report writing-skills. PERSAL
Certificate. Knowledge of Labour Relations Act, Public Services legislations
and policies related to). Knowledge of implementing PSCBC and GPSSBC
resolutions. Knowledge and understanding of bargaining process, grievance
and dispute resolutions process. Sound knowledge of Labour Relation
statutes. Sound knowledge of International Labour Organization (ILO).
Knowledge and understanding of the TVET/ CET Administration.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for: Ensure overall supervision and proper
implementation of labour relations guidelines and processes. Ensure overall
supervision and proper implementation on resolution of disciplinary cases,
grievances and dispute processes. Ensure overall supervision and proper
implementation of misconduct case processes. Ensure overall supervision and
proper implementation of collective bargaining and dispute resolutions. Ensure
overall supervision and represent the employer and monitor the
implementation of litigation outcomes. Ensure overall supervision and sound
employment relationships. Ensure overall supervision and monitor PERSAL
and database on grievance, disputes, misconduct and collective bargaining.
ENQUIRIES : A Mhlauli - HR Unit Tel No: (053) 839 2099/053 839 2074
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, Quoting the Reference Number and the
position you applying for to: The HR Department, Northern Cape TVET
College, Private Bag X5031, Kimberley, 8300 or email to
Recruitment@ncutvet.edu.za or hand deliver to HR Department at 39 Long
Street Kimberley
39
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the most recent Z83 application for
employment from issued by Minister for the Public Service and Administration
in line with Regulation 10 of Public Services Regulation ,2016 and a detailed
Curriculum Vitae, failure to do so will result in disqualification. The successful
candidate will be required to enter into a contract of employment and a
performance agreement. The candidate will be subjected to a security
clearance and verification of qualifications. The candidate will have to disclose
his/her financial interest. The department is committed to providing equal
opportunities and practicing affirmative action employment. It is our intention to
promote representivity: (race, gender and disability) in the Department through
the filling of posts.
CLOSING DATE : 03 December 2025
POST 42/59 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: ASSETS REF NO: NCUTVET/DHET
2025/12
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Kimberley (Northern Cape Urban TVET College)
REQUIREMENTS : Recognised three (3) National Diploma (NQF level 6) /Assets Management/ in
Public Services, Financial Management or relevant equivalent qualification. 3-
5 years working experience in assets environment or management of
resources. Ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics.
Basic knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service. Demonstrate a sound understanding of the PFMA; Treasury
regulations; PPFA, Supply Chain Management guidelines and other related
prescripts. Knowledge of the Public sector procurement process, rules and
regulations.
DUTIES : The incumbent is responsible: To ensure the safekeeping of the assets within
the College. Regular spot check on manual and electronic registers/filling
assets. Verify the asset to be disposed. Ensure that all the assets are captured
on system. Ensure that storage according to the status of the Asset
(obsolete/redundant. Ensure that both obsolete and redundant asset inventory
sheet is up to date. Prepare reports on a monthly and yearly basis for all
obsolete and redundant assets. Perform physical verification of all sites assets
(office inspection). Conduct asset counts/verifications on a bi - annual y.
Administer the bi - annual asset counts/verifications of all assets. Ensure all
records are up to date and correct for financial purpose and audit. Ensure that
movement form is approved before movement done. Prepare reports/statistics
on movements done as required. Fleet administration and coordination.
ENQUIRIES : A Mhlauli - HR Unit Tel No: (053) 839 2099/053 839 2074
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, Quoting the Reference Number and the
position you applying for to: The HR Department, Northern Cape TVET
College, Private Bag X5031, Kimberley, 8300 or email to
Recruitment@ncutvet.edu.za or hand deliver to HR Department at 39 Long
Street Kimberley
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the most recent Z83 application for
employment from issued by Minister for the Public Service and Administration
in line with Regulation 10 of Public Services Regulation, 2016 and a detailed
Curriculum Vitae, failure to do so will result in disqualification. The successful
candidate will be required to enter into a contract of employment and a
performance agreement. The candidate will be subjected to a security
clearance and verification of qualifications. The candidate will have to disclose
his/her financial interest. The department is committed to providing equal
opportunities and practicing affirmative action employment. It is our intention to
promote representivity: (race, gender and disability) in the Department through
the filling of posts.
CLOSING DATE : 03 December 2025
POST 42/60 : CAMPUS ADMINISTRATOR REF NO: MALUTITVET/KCA-017/2025
College Council Appointment: 12 Months Contract
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Kwetlisong Campus
REQUIREMENTS : Recognised National Diploma (NQF 6) in Office Management and
Technology/Public Management or equivalent qualification. 2-3 years relevant
40
experience in Administration environment. Competencies and Attributes:
Knowledge of office administration. Knowledge of Public Service legislations
and policies. Knowledge of Public Service legislations and policies. Knowledge
of PSET. Knowledge and understanding of the TVET/ CET Administration.
Understanding of the Higher Education sector. Understanding of corporate
governance. Understanding Cost center budgetary, expenditure and cash flow
management. Employment Equity Act, Public Service Regulations and Public
Service Act, Labour Relations Act and any other related legislation.
DUTIES : Render administrative support services. Draw up a campus enrolment plan for
both NCV and report 191. Gather departmental information and compile a
report for A-TEAM and Campus Management. Prepare reports, presentations,
and other correspondence. Arrange meetings, conferences, workshops and
other gatherings as required. Provide other secretarial support services to
campus management. Administer and coordinate human resource services.
Coordinate Leave forms and submit to central office. Coordinate PMDS
documents and submit to central office. Coordinate all relevant documentation
pertaining to disciplinary cases and grievances. Follow up and resolve all
human resource administration queries and issues emanating from campus
staff. Maintain human resource records administration. Monitor the attendance
register for staff. Coordinate the compilation of duty registers and payment for
part-time lectures. Support the implementation college staff wellness
programme at campus level. Provide procurement services. Recommend
purchase requisitions to Campus Manager. Draft procurement memo. Draft
procurement memo. Complete requisition form. Receive goods and services.
Coordinate and submit invoices to central office for processing. Verify the
correctness of goods and services supplied against the appropriate
documentation. Follow-up on campus requisitions made. Maintain a proper
filing system. Maintain files for all campus staff. Filing of all relevant
documentation according to QMS requirements and national achieve Act. Keep
record of postage received from central office and ensure that the distribution
is done accordingly and register is kept by the relevant official. Administer
student registration and examination process. Assist in the registration of
students. Store student portfolios of evidence and student records. Scan
documents of students. Capture and reconcile information for students. Ensure
data exceptions and corrections. Process the details of applications for
programmes and credits. Coordinate the student registration process.
Coordinate the examination process.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Mathipe Tel No: (058) 303 1732
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be posted or hand delivered to Human Resource
Management: Maluti TVET College, Corporate Office, Private Bag X33,
Bethlehem, 9700 or hand delivered at Maluti TVET College: Corporate Office,
Corner High & Broster Street, Bethlehem, 9700. Email applications can be
forwarded to hrrecruitment@malutitvet.co.za in pdf format and as one
attachment. Indicate the relevant reference number and job title on the subject
line.
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on a
Z83 form (effective from 01 January 2021) obtainable from any Public Service
department as well as Maluti TVET College Corporate Office or from Maluti
TVET College Official website www.malutitvet.co.za. The Z83 form must be
signed, initialed and dated. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must
be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents on application but must submit the completed Z83
form and a detailed curriculum vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from HR. Foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by a SAQA evaluation report. Immigrants should apply for work
permits before assumption of duty. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied
by its own application for employment. Applicants who do not comply with the
abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received
late will not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Maluti TVET College is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. Preference will be given to Indians and
Coloured as per the EE targets of the College. People with disability are
encouraged to apply. It is the College’s intention to promote equity (race,
41
gender and disability) through the filling of this posts. NB: Please consider your
application as unsuccessful should you not be contacted within 60 days from
the closing date of this advertisement. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a
skills/knowledge/competence exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability
check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification
verification and employment verification). Successful candidates may be
required to work at other places as may reasonably be required by the
Department and the College. Maluti TVET College reserves the right to
withdraw any of the mentioned advert.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025 @13:00
POST 42/61 : STUDENT ACADEMIC SUPPORT OFFICER REF NO: NCUTVET/DHET
2025/13
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Kimberley (Northern Cape Urban TVET College)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognised National Diploma (NQF 6) in Education, Psychology
Social Science or relevant equivalent qualification. 2-3 years in Student
Support Administration Education/Teaching and Learning environment or
related field. Computer literacy in in the Microsoft suite. A valid driver’s license
is a prerequisite. Good verbal and written communication skills, including
presentation and report writing-skills. Knowledge of White Paper on PSET Act.
Knowledge of PSET and CET Act. Knowledge and understanding of Student
Support Services Act. Knowledge and understanding of electoral processes.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for: Provide student support services.
Provide student counselling or referral services. Implement student work
placement and Work Integrated Learning (WIL) policies. Provide career
guidance, counselling and academic support for students. Implement the sport,
recreation, arts and culture programs for student in the campus. Facilitate
student governance and student leadership development and exit support
programme.
ENQUIRIES : A Mhlauli - HR Unit Tel No: (053) 839 2099/053 839 2074
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, Quoting the Reference Number and the
position you applying for to: The HR Department, Northern Cape TVET
College, Private Bag X5031, Kimberley, 8300 or email to
Recruitment@ncutvet.edu.za or hand deliver to HR Department at 39 Long
Street, Kimberley
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the most recent Z83 application for
employment from issued by Minister for the Public Service and Administration
in line with Regulation 10 of Public Services Regulation ,2016 and a detailed
Curriculum Vitae, failure to do so will result in disqualification. The successful
candidate will be required to enter into a contract of employment and a
performance agreement. The candidate will be subjected to a security
clearance and verification of qualifications. The candidate will have to disclose
his/her financial interest. The department is committed to providing equal
opportunities and practicing affirmative action employment. It is our intention to
promote representivity: (race, gender and disability) in the Department through
the filling of posts.
CLOSING DATE : 03 December 2025
POST 42/62 : PRACTITIONER: EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS REF NO:
NCUTVET/DHET 2025/14
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Kimberley (Northern Cape Urban TVET College)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 7) in Psychology / BA. Social Work
(Major in Psychology) or Sports Science, or relevant equivalent qualification
and 2-3 years’ experience in Employee Health and Wellness environment or
related field. Computer literacy in in the Microsoft suite and a valid driver’s
license is a prerequisite. Good verbal and written communication skills,
including presentation and report writing-skills. Knowledge of Basic knowledge
of Health and Wellness policies, processes and systems.
42
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for: Provide Effective and efficient
administrative support in the implementation of Employee Health and Wellness
strategic framework. Assist with the implementation of health and wellness
policy for the college. Assist with conducting Health and wellness surveys.
Coordinate Health and Wellness programme based on the Health Wellness
survey. Provide support in the implementation of Employee Wellness
programme services. Promote psych-social wellness of employees in the
college. Provide counselling. Promote physical wellness of employees in the
college through sport. Provide interventions to mitigate absenteeism. Provide
awareness and education on the Health and Wellness issues. Monitor
programmes to manage lifestyle diseases and Health risks. Ensure overall
supervision and facilitate risk, fraud, ethics and integrity management
awareness and trainings. Ensure overall supervision, review, collect
information and compile reports to council subcommittee/ audit and risk
committee on issues of risk and internal audit. Compile monthly, quarterly and
annual reports against the audit plan. Compile monthly, quarterly and annual
reports against the risk register.
ENQUIRIES : A Mhlauli - HR Unit Tel No: (053) 839 2099/053 839 2074
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, Quoting the Reference Number and the
position you applying for to: The HR Department, Northern Cape TVET
College, Private Bag X5031, Kimberley, 8300 or email to
Recruitment@ncutvet.edu.za or hand deliver to HR Department at 39 Long
Street, Kimberley.
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the most recent Z83 application for
employment from issued by Minister for the Public Service and Administration
in line with Regulation 10 of Public Services Regulation, 2016 and a detailed
Curriculum Vitae, failure to do so will result in disqualification. The successful
candidate will be required to enter into a contract of employment and a
performance agreement. The candidate will be subjected to a security
clearance and verification of qualifications. The candidate will have to disclose
his/her financial interest. The department is committed to providing equal
opportunities and practicing affirmative action employment. It is our intention to
promote representivity: (race, gender and disability) in the Department through
the filling of posts.
CLOSING DATE : 03 December 2025
POST 42/63 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: PRINCIPAL OFFICE REF NO: NCUTVET/DHET
2025/15
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Kimberley (Northern Cape Urban TVET College)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three (3) years Recognized Secretarial/Management Assistant
National Diploma or relevant equivalent relevant qualification (NQF level 6). 2-
3 years’ relevant experience in rendering a support service to senior
management. Computer literacy. Basic written communication skills. Record
management of documents.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for: Provide a secretarial/receptionist
support service to the manager. Receives telephone calls. Performs advanced
typing work. Records the engagements of the senior manager. Coordinates
with and sensitizes/advises the manager regarding engagements. Compiles
realistic schedules of appointments. Renders administrative support services.
Ensures the effective flow of information and documents to and from the office
of the manager. Ensures the safekeeping of all documentation in the office of
the manager in line with relevant legislation and policies. Obtains inputs,
collates and compiles reports. Does filing of documents for the manager and
unit where required. Collects, analyses and collates information requested by
the manager. Ensures that travel arrangements are well coordinated. Provides
support to manager regarding meetings: Records minutes/decisions and
communicates to relevant role players, follow-up on progress made. Prepares
briefing notes for the manager as required. Coordinates logistical
arrangements for meetings when required. Remains up to date with regard to
the prescripts/policies and procedures applicable to his /her work terrain to
ensure efficient and effective support to the manager.
ENQUIRIES : A Mhlauli - HR Unit Tel No: (053) 839 2099/053 839 2074
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, Quoting the Reference Number and the
position you applying for to: The HR Department, Northern Cape TVET
43
College, Private Bag X5031, Kimberley, 8300 or email to
Recruitment@ncutvet.edu.za or hand deliver to HR Department at 39 Long
Street, Kimberley.
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the most recent Z83 application for
employment from issued by Minister for the Public Service and Administration
in line with Regulation 10 of Public Services Regulation ,2016 and a detailed
Curriculum Vitae, failure to do so will result in disqualification. The successful
candidate will be required to enter into a contract of employment and a
performance agreement. The candidate will be subjected to a security
clearance and verification of qualifications. The candidate will have to disclose
his/her financial interest. The department is committed to providing equal
opportunities and practicing affirmative action employment. It is our intention to
promote representivity: (race, gender, and disability) in the Department through
the filling of posts.
CLOSING DATE : 03 December 2025
POST 42/64 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE ADMINISTRATION
REF NO: NCUTVET/DHET 2025/16
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Kimberley (Northern Cape Urban TVET College)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three (3) years Recognized National Diploma in Human
Resource Management/Development (NQF level 6). Relevant PERSAL
Certificates. 2-3 years’ relevant experience in Human Resource Management
/ Administration environment. Extensive knowledge on PERSAL System
(PERSAL Certificate). Good verbal and written communication skills, including
presentation and report writing-skills. Understanding and utilisation of the
PERSAL system. Knowledge and understating of the application of Public
Service legislative framework (PSA, PFMA, PSR etc.). Knowledge and
understand of human resource prescripts and practice.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for: Render conditions of services and
remuneration of employees (leave, housing, medical, injury on duty, long
service recognition, overtime, relocation, pension, allowances, PILIR etc.).
Implement termination of services. Render Recruitment and Selection services
in line with the Departmental policy and delegation (Advertisements,
appointments, transfers, verification of qualifications, secretariat functions at
interviews, absorptions, probation periods etc.). Supervisor human resources /
staff.
ENQUIRIES : A Mhlauli - HR Unit Tel No: (053) 839 2099/053 839 2074
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, Quoting the Reference Number and the
position you applying for to: The HR Department, Northern Cape TVET
College, Private Bag X5031, Kimberley, 8300 or email to
Recruitment@ncutvet.edu.za or hand deliver to HR Department at 39 Long
Street, Kimberley.
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the most recent Z83 application for
employment from issued by Minister for the Public Service and Administration
in line with Regulation 10 of Public Services Regulation ,2016 and a detailed
Curriculum Vitae, failure to do so will result in disqualification. The successful
candidate will be required to enter into a contract of employment and a
performance agreement. The candidate will be subjected to a security
clearance and verification of qualifications. The candidate will have to disclose
his/her financial interest. The department is committed to providing equal
opportunities and practicing affirmative action employment. It is our intention to
promote representivity: (race, gender, and disability) in the Department through
the filling of posts.
CLOSING DATE : 03 December 2025
POST 42/65 : PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
NCUTVET/DHET 2025/17
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Kimberley (Northern Cape Urban TVET College)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma in Human Resource
Management/Development (NQF level 6). Relevant PERSAL Certificates. A
Certificate in facilitation/ Assessor/ Moderator will be an added advantage. 2-3
44
years experience years’ relevant experience in Human Resource development
environment. Extensive knowledge on PERSAL System (PERSAL Certificate).
Computer literacy in in the Microsoft suite. A valid driver’s license is a
prerequisite. Good verbal and written communication skills, including
presentation and report writing-skills. Knowledge and understating of the
application of Public Service legislative framework (PSA, PFMA, PSR etc.).
Knowledge and understanding of coordination and facilitation of training.
Knowledge and understanding of application of Employment Equity Act.
Knowledge and understanding of PMDS and IQMS.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for: Implement all training and development
programmes in line with approved plans. Facilitate the development and
implementation of Work Skills Plan. Process bursaries in line with the
departmental policy. Coordinate the implementation of Internship and
Learnership Programmes. Coordinate the implementation of Performance
Management Development System, Integrated Quality Management System
and coordinate training for College staff. Facilitate the development of job
descriptions. Provide assistance on the development, review and
implementation of Employment Equity Plan for the College. Supervise human
resources / employees. Ensure overall supervision, review, collect information
and compile reports to council subcommittee/ audit and risk committee on
issues of risk and internal audit. Compile monthly, quarterly and annual reports
against the audit plan. Compile monthly, quarterly and annual reports against
the risk register.
ENQUIRIES : A Mhlauli - HR Unit Tel No: (053) 839 2099/053 839 2074
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, Quoting the Reference Number and the
position you applying for to: The HR Department, Northern Cape TVET
College, Private Bag X5031, Kimberley, 8300 or email to
Recruitment@ncutvet.edu.za or hand deliver to HR Department at 39 Long
Street, Kimberley
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the most recent Z83 application for
employment from issued by Minister for the Public Service and Administration
in line with Regulation 10 of Public Services Regulation ,2016 and a detailed
Curriculum Vitae, failure to do so will result in disqualification. The successful
candidate will be required to enter into a contract of employment and a
performance agreement. The candidate will be subjected to a security
clearance and verification of qualifications. The candidate will have to disclose
his/her financial interest. The department is committed to providing equal
opportunities and practicing affirmative action employment. It is our intention to
promote representivity: (race, gender and disability) in the Department through
the filling of posts.
CLOSING DATE : 03 December 2025
POST 42/66 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER – PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT REF
NO: NCUTVET/DHET 2025/18
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Kimberley (Northern Cape Urban TVET College)
REQUIREMENTS : Recognised three (3) year National Diploma in Human Resource Management
(NQF level 6) or relevant equivalent qualification. 2-3 years’ experience.
Knowledge on PERSAL System (PERSAL Certificate). Must be able to use
Microsoft (Word, Excel). Compiling of reports. Must be able to understand and
interpret PMDS Policy. Must be able to write submissions and letters
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for: Support effective management of
individual performance management. Capturing all PMDS documents on
PERSAL and excel spreadsheet. Development of an effective performance
management database. Assist in Conduction training session on PMDS Policy.
Facilitate and coordinate Branch Moderation Process.
ENQUIRIES : A Mhlauli - HR Unit Tel No: (053) 839 2099/053 839 2074
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, Quoting the Reference Number and the
position you applying for to: The HR Department, Northern Cape TVET
College, Private Bag X5031, Kimberley, 8300 or email to
Recruitment@ncutvet.edu.za or hand deliver to HR Department at 39 Long
Street, Kimberley
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the most recent Z83 application for
employment from issued by Minister for the Public Service and Administration
45
in line with Regulation 10 of Public Services Regulation, 2016 and a detailed
Curriculum Vitae, failure to do so will result in disqualification. The successful
candidate will be required to enter into a contract of employment and a
performance agreement. The candidate will be subjected to a security
clearance and verification of qualifications. The candidate will have to disclose
his/her financial interest. The department is committed to providing equal
opportunities and practicing affirmative action employment. It is our intention to
promote representivity: (race, gender, and disability) in the Department through
the filling of posts.
CLOSING DATE : 03 December 2025
POST 42/67 : EXAMINATION OFFICER REF NO: NCUTVET/DHET 2025/19
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Kimberley (Northern Cape Urban TVET College)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma in Education or relevant equivalent
qualification (NQF level 6) At least 2-3 years’ experience in examination
services and teaching and learning environment. Knowledge of White Paper
on PSET Act, Knowledge of the Public TVET sector and its regulatory and
legislative framework. Knowledge and understanding of the Higher Education
sector. Knowledge and understanding of COLTECH system, TVETMIS, and
ITS. Knowledge of practice notes, national, provincial policy frameworks
relevant to Education, Training and Development. Knowledge of Skills
Development Act, Public Service Regulations and Public Service Act, Labour
Relations Act.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for: Coordinate internal and external
examination assessment services. Coordinate and conduct training of
Invigilators, Markers and Data Capturers. Facilitate examination and
Irregularity Committee for the campus and serve as a Secretariat. Process
application and issuing of certificates services. Provide administration support
for the examination unit.
ENQUIRIES : A Mhlauli - HR Unit Tel No: (053) 839 2099/053 839 2074
APPLICATIONS : Please Forward Your Application, Quoting the Reference Number and the
position you applying for to: The HR Department, Northern Cape TVET
College, Private Bag X5031, Kimberley, 8300 or email to
Recruitment@ncutvet.edu.za or hand deliver to HR Department at 39 Long
Street, Kimberley.
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the most recent Z83 application for
employment from issued by Minister for the Public Service and Administration
in line with Regulation 10 of Public Services Regulation ,2016 and a detailed
Curriculum Vitae, failure to do so will result in disqualification. The successful
candidate will be required to enter into an contract of employment and a
performance agreement. The candidate will be subjected to a security
clearance and verification of qualifications. The candidate will have to disclose
his/her financial interest. The department is committed to providing equal
opportunities and practicing affirmative action employment. It is our intention to
promote representivity: (race, gender and disability) in the Department through
the filling of posts.
CLOSING DATE : 03 December 2025
POST 42/68 : QUALITY MANAGEMENT OFFICER REF NO: NCUTVET/DHET 2025/20
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Leve 07)
CENTRE : Kimberley (Northern Cape Urban TVET College)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma in Quality Management, Internal Auditing
(NQF Level 6) or relevant equivalent. At least 1-2 years’ experience in Quality
Systems /Internal Auditing or ISO training. Knowledge of policies and
governance environment of TVET Colleges including knowledge of the annual
reporting requirements. Knowledge and understanding of the monitoring of
performance management development system. Knowledge and
understanding of quality management practice following pieces of legislation:
FET Act, ISO standards, Quality Management System etc. and internal auditor.
Knowledge and understanding of Quality Management System reporting
process and procedures. Knowledge and understating of the application of
Public Service legislative framework.
46
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for: Ensure overall supervision and conduct
customer satisfaction surveys for the college. Distribute Survey
Questionnaires. Collect and Analyse data surveys. Compile survey report.
Distribute survey report and discuss the way forward. Ensure overall
supervision, schedule and conduct management reviews for the college.
Prepare needed data for management reviews. Distribute feedback to top
management on the effectiveness of the quality management system and the
need for improvement as per MR minutes. Remind process owners to execute
the ‘To Do List” recommendations to promote systematic continuous
improvement. Use management reviews as an opportunity to improve service
delivery. Prepare campuses and departments e for surveillance/ recertification
audits. Apply recommendations made in the audit report to improve service
delivery Prove network cabling. Perform PC installations and software
installations. Provide technical support of the configuration, installation, repair
and replacement of computers, printers and telephones. Compile and submit
reports on QMS to internal and external stakeholder. Maintain and update all
databases for QMS interventions. Ensure proper use of all official resources
in-line with departmental policies and prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : A Mhlauli - HR Unit Tel No: (053) 839 2099/053 839 2074
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, Quoting the Reference Number and the
position you applying for to: The HR Department, Northern Cape TVET
College, Private Bag X5031, Kimberley, 8300 or email to
Recruitment@ncutvet.edu.za or hand deliver to HR Department at 39 Long
Street, Kimberley
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the most recent Z83 application for
employment from issued by Minister for the Public Service and Administration
in line with Regulation 10 of Public Services Regulation ,2016 and a detailed
Curriculum Vitae, failure to do so will result in disqualification. The successful
candidate will be required to enter into a contract of employment and a
performance agreement. The candidate will be subjected to a security
clearance and verification of qualifications. The candidate will have to disclose
his/her financial interest. The department is committed to providing equal
opportunities and practicing affirmative action employment. It is our intention to
promote representivity: (race, gender, and disability) in the Department through
the filling of posts.
CLOSING DATE : 03 December 2025
POST 42/69 : SPORTS, ARTS AND CULTURAL OFFICER REF NO: NCUTVET/DHET
2025/21
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Kimberley (Northern Cape Urban TVET College)
REQUIREMENTS : Recognized three (3) year National Diploma (NQF level 6) in sports
Management/ Administration or equivalent. 1-2 years’ experience in sports and
culture environment. Driver’s license will be an advantage. Sports
Administration, cultural administration, project management, ability to capture
data, operating computer, collecting statistics, legislative framework governing
the Public Services, and knowledge of procedures in terms of the working
environment.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for: Establish and maintain sport and
recreation structures and clubs in schools, wards and local. Provide support
services to federations, clubs and school sport structures. Render support to
provincial sport academy and satellites. Implement programmes to increase
and improve relations between sport and recreation stakeholders. Establish
good governance structures of sport and recreation as dictated by relevant
legislation. Facilitate capacity building programmes. Create an enabling
environment for the talent identification. Administer coach education in terms
of different sporting codes. Monitor and evaluate progress of education and
training activities. Perform events management/coordination activities. Liaise
with hubs, sport federation, sport councils and academy to increase the
number of participants in sports and recreation activities. Implement programs
to increase and improve relations between sports and recreation stakeholders.
Plan, develop and implement school and community sport, school and
community mass participation and high performance programs. Formulate and
administer league related sport programs. Promote health and fitness in
communities. Provide an oversight role in the implementation of sports
47
academy and recreation council programs. Encourage all levels of
communities to participate in different codes of sports and recreation activities.
Monitor the implementation of all transformation policies and programs.
Promote gender mainstream in sport and recreation. Promote integrated
programs of all sector department and relevant stakeholders. Promote
awareness and participation to all ages, gender and capability categories.
Collect, analyse, compile and update data in all sport and recreational
activities. Provide administrative and technical support with regard to sports
and recreation facilities and infrastructure. Administer the system for storage,
maintenance, issue and return of sport and physical recreation equipment.
Examine, compile and monitor transfer payments of funded projects. Identify,
develop and promote (emerging) artists and crafters as well as implementing
projects related to performing and visual arts and craft. Create awareness
programmes for craft, performing and visual arts. Conduct needs analysis and
provide professional advice on performing, visual arts and crafts. Render
administrative functions in relation to programmes that are implemented
ENQUIRIES : A Mhlauli- HR Unit Tel No: (053) 839 2099/053 839 2074
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, Quoting the Reference Number and the
position you applying for to: The HR Department, Northern Cape TVET
College, Private Bag X5031, Kimberley, 8300 or email to
Recruitment@ncutvet.edu.za or hand deliver to HR Department at 39 Long
Street, Kimberley
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the most recent Z83 application for
employment from issued by Minister for the Public Service and Administration
in line with Regulation 10 of Public Services Regulation, 2016 and a detailed
Curriculum Vitae, failure to do so will result in disqualification. The successful
candidate will be required to enter into a contract of employment and a
performance agreement. The candidate will be subjected to a security
clearance and verification of qualifications. The candidate will have to disclose
his/her financial interest. The department is committed to providing equal
opportunities and practicing affirmative action employment. It is our intention to
promote representivity: (race, gender, and disability) in the Department through
the filling of posts.
CLOSING DATE : 03 December 2025
POST 42/70 : STUDENT SUPPORT SERVICES (SSS) CLERK REF NO: LEPTVET 06/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), excluding benefits
CENTRE : Ellisras Campus
REQUIREMENTS : Matric or NCV Level 4 Certificate plus a recognized three (3) year Diploma
(NQF Level 6) in Office Administration/ Office Management and Technology/
Management Assistant. A Psychology/ Social Science will be served as an
added advantage. Work experience in student support services environment
will be an added advantage. Knowledge of PSET and CET Act. Knowledge and
understanding of electoral processes. Knowledge of Teaching and Learning.
Knowledge of career guidance and extra-curricular activities. Knowledge of
National Student Financial Aid Scheme legislation. Computer literacy. A valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : Assist in providing the student support services. Assist in implementing student
work place and Work Integrated Learning (WIL) policies. Render administrative
services on career guidance, counselling and academic support for students.
Assist in implementing the sport, recreation, arts and culture programs for
students in the campus. Render administrative services for student
governance, student leadership and exit support programme.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PM Mphethi / Ms MN Morena Tel No: (014) 763 2252
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be mailed timeously to Private Bag X210, Lephalale, 0555
or hand delivered or couriered to Lephalale TVET College (Central Office),
Corner Nelson Mandela & Ngoako Ramatlhodi Drives, Onverwacht, Lephalale
0557 or the applications can alternatively be sent to:
recruitment@leptevtcol.edu.za. No late applications will be accepted.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr PM Mphethi/ Ms MN Morena
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z83 of
the Public Service Act, obtainable from any Public Service Department or any
Public Service and Administration website. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit a fully completed Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (e.g.
48
indicating positions held, dates and key performance areas/responsibilities).
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of the interviews following communication from the College.
Failure to submit the requested documents/information will result in your
application not being considered. Failure to comply with this requirement will
result in the candidate being disqualified. If you have not been contacted within
three (3) month after the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only and applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. The applicants must not have
previously participated in an internship programme in the Public Service. The
qualifications must be from an accredited institution of higher learning.
Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of race,
gender and disability will receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025 at 14:00
POST 42/71 : PLACEMENT CLERK: STUDENT SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO: LEPTVET
07/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), excluding benefits
CENTRE : Ellisras Campus
REQUIREMENTS : Matric or NCV Level 4 Certificate plus a recognized three (3) year Diploma
(NQF Level 6) in Office Management and Technology/ Office Administration/
Business Management/ Management Assistant. Knowledge of SETA
processes will serve as an added advantage. Work experience in the
administration of projects will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge of
PSET and CET Act. Customer oriented, attention to details, planning and
organizing, good communication skill and must be able to work under pressure.
Must be computer literate. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Apply for discretionary grants from various funders on behalf of the college.
Ensure the orientation and induction of interns and host employers so that they
understand the workplace process, the level of support available are equipped
to undertake successful work placement process. Organise and attend
placement visit to monitor the progress of students/ lecturers and deal
effectively with any issues/concerns that may arise. Assist with work placement
correspondences and telephone queries internally and externally. Implement
student readiness programmes including resume writing, interview preparation
workshops, etc. Organise group networks events for all student partners,
businesses and stakeholders. Maintain the current database of host employers
and student/ lecturer placement. Compile reports and assist with internship and
experiential programme processes and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PM Mphethi / Ms MN Morena Tel No: (014) 763 2252
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be mailed timeously to Private Bag X210, Lephalale, 0555
or hand delivered or couriered to Lephalale TVET College (Central Office),
Corner Nelson Mandela & Ngoako Ramatlhodi Drives, Onverwacht, Lephalale
0557 or the applications can alternatively be sent to:
recruitment@leptevtcol.edu.za. No late applications will be accepted.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr PM Mphethi/ Ms MN Morena
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z83 of
the Public Service Act, obtainable from any Public Service Department or any
Public Service and Administration website. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit a fully completed Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (e.g.
indicating positions held, dates and key performance areas/responsibilities).
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of the interviews following communication from the College.
Failure to submit the requested documents/information will result in your
application not being considered. Failure to comply with this requirement will
result in the candidate being disqualified. If you have not been contacted within
three (3) month after the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only and applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. The applicants must not have
previously participated in an internship programme in the Public Service. The
qualifications must be from an accredited institution of higher learning.
Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of race,
gender and disability will receive preference.
49
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025 at 14:00
POST 42/72 : SUPPLY CHAIN AND ASSET ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO:
LEPTVET 08/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), excluding benefits
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric or NCV Level 4 Certificate plus a recognized three (3) year Diploma
(NQF level 6) in Supply Chain Management/ Logistics/ Financial Management/
Public Management. Work experience in Supply Chain Management or Asset
Management environment will be an added advantage. Knowledge of
Accounting System, asset disposal procedure, legislative framework governing
the Public Service, Assets Management, Supply Chain policies, Department of
Higher Education Mandate. Computer literacy certificate/ computer as a
subject. Good communication and interpersonal relations skills. Ability to work
in a team and under pressure. Attention to details, problem solving skills and
communication skills. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Coordination and recording of asset movement. Asset disposal, Asset
verification, Barcoding of existing and new assets. Implementation of College
Asset Management plan. Coordination of receipt, processing and distribution
of new assets. Perform other delegated functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PM Mphethi / Ms MN Morena Tel No: (014) 763 2252
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be mailed timeously to Private Bag X210, Lephalale, 0555
or hand delivered or couriered to Lephalale TVET College (Central Office),
Corner Nelson Mandela & Ngoako Ramatlhodi Drives, Onverwacht, Lephalale
0557 or the applications can alternatively be sent to:
recruitment@leptevtcol.edu.za. No late applications will be accepted.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr PM Mphethi/ Ms MN Morena
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z83 of
the Public Service Act, obtainable from any Public Service Department or any
Public Service and Administration website. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit a fully completed Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (e.g.
indicating positions held, dates and key performance areas/responsibilities).
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of the interviews following communication from the College.
Failure to submit the requested documents/information will result in your
application not being considered. Failure to comply with this requirement will
result in the candidate being disqualified. If you have not been contacted within
three (3) month after the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only and applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. The applicants must not have
previously participated in an internship programme in the Public Service. The
qualifications must be from an accredited institution of higher learning.
Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of race,
gender and disability will receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025 at 14:00
POST 42/73 : MARKETING CLERK REF NO: LEPTVET 09/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), excluding benefits
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric or NCV Level 4 plus a recognized three (3) year Diploma (NQF level 6)
in Marketing Management/Communications/ Public Relations. A Graphic
Design certificate will be an added advantage. Knowledge of Photoshop,
Illustrator and Corel Draw. Knowledge of TVET sector/ Public sector. Good
communications skills (both writing and verbally). Good public speaking and
presentation skills. Exposure to the marketing and communication
environment.
DUTIES : Assist in marketing, promotions and branding services. Assist in the
coordination of public relations and media liaison services. Assist in the
coordination of photographic services and drafting of articles. Assist in the
coordination of college events and communication administration services.
Assist in updating the content, design and layout of the college website.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PM Mphethi / Ms MN Morena Tel No: (014) 763 2252
50
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be mailed timeously to Private Bag X210, Lephalale, 0555
or hand delivered or couriered to Lephalale TVET College (Central Office),
Corner Nelson Mandela & Ngoako Ramatlhodi Drives, Onverwacht, Lephalale
0557 or the applications can alternatively be sent to:
recruitment@leptevtcol.edu.za. No late applications will be accepted.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr PM Mphethi/ Ms MN Morena
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z83 of
the Public Service Act, obtainable from any Public Service Department or any
Public Service and Administration website. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit a fully completed Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (e.g.
indicating positions held, dates and key performance areas/responsibilities).
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of the interviews following communication from the College.
Failure to submit the requested documents/information will result in your
application not being considered. Failure to comply with this requirement will
result in the candidate being disqualified. If you have not been contacted within
three (3) month after the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only and applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. The applicants must not have
previously participated in an internship programme in the Public Service. The
qualifications must be from an accredited institution of higher learning.
Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of race,
gender and disability will receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025 at 14:00
POST 42/74 : HANDYMAN REF NO: LEPTVET 10/2025
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03), excluding benefits
CENTRE : Ellisras Campus
REQUIREMENTS : Standard 8 or Grade 10. Basic literacy, numeracy and communication skills.
Must be able to read and write. Must be able to operate elementary machines
and equipment. Willingness to work extended hours, when required.
DUTIES : Perform general maintenance and repair duties within the college facility. Carry
out tasks related to plumbing, electrical wiring, carpentry, and basic
infrastructure repair. Maintain office furniture and repair equipment. Replace or
fix doors, windows, walls, and internal fixtures. Secure tools and maintenance
supplies to prevent loss and ensure availability.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PM Mphethi / Ms MN Morena Tel No: (014) 763 2252
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be mailed timeously to Private Bag X210, Lephalale, 0555
or hand delivered or couriered to Lephalale TVET College (Central Office),
Corner Nelson Mandela & Ngoako Ramatlhodi Drives, Onverwacht, Lephalale
0557 or the applications can alternatively be sent to:
recruitment@leptevtcol.edu.za. No late applications will be accepted.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr PM Mphethi/ Ms MN Morena
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z83 of
the Public Service Act, obtainable from any Public Service Department or any
Public Service and Administration website. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit a fully completed Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (e.g.
indicating positions held, dates and key performance areas/responsibilities).
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of the interviews following communication from the College.
Failure to submit the requested documents/information will result in your
application not being considered. Failure to comply with this requirement will
result in the candidate being disqualified. If you have not been contacted within
three (3) month after the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only and applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. The applicants must not have
previously participated in an internship programme in the Public Service. The
qualifications must be from an accredited institution of higher learning.
Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of race,
gender and disability will receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025 at 14:00
51
INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME 2025 – 2027
(Lephalale TVET College)
The Lephalale TVET College invites unemployed South African graduates to apply for the 2025 To 2027
Internship Programme. Graduates must be in possession of a completed National Diploma / Bachelor’s
degree in the below-mentioned disciplines/ fields. The Programme will be for non-renewable contract
period of twenty-four (24) months.
OTHER POSTS
POST 42/75 : INTERN: COLLEGE COUNCIL SECRETARIAT REF NO: LEPTVET 11/2025
(X2 POSTS)
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric or NCV Level 4 plus a recognized three (3) year Diploma (NQF Level 6)
in Public Management/ Public Administration/ Office Administration/ Office
Management and Technology.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PM Mphethi / Ms MN Morena Tel No: (014) 763 2252
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be mailed timeously to Private Bag X210, Lephalale, 0555
or hand delivered or couriered to Lephalale TVET College (Central Office),
Corner Nelson Mandela & Ngoako Ramatlhodi Drives, Onverwacht, Lephalale
0557 or the applications can alternatively be sent to:
recruitment@leptevtcol.edu.za. No late applications will be accepted.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr PM Mphethi/ Ms MN Morena
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z83 of
the Public Service Act, obtainable from any Public Service Department or any
Public Service and Administration website. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit a fully completed Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (e.g.
indicating positions held, dates and key performance areas/responsibilities).
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of the interviews following communication from the College.
Failure to submit the requested documents/information will result in your
application not being considered. Failure to comply with this requirement will
result in the candidate being disqualified. If you have not been contacted within
three (3) month after the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only and applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. The applicants must not have
previously participated in an internship programme in the Public Service. The
qualifications must be from an accredited institution of higher learning.
Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of race,
gender and disability will receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025 at 14:00
POST 42/76 : INTERN: LEGAL SERVICES REF NO: 12/2025
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric or NCV Level 4 plus a recognized three (3) year Diploma in Paralegal/
Four (4) year Degree in the Law field.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PM Mphethi / Ms MN Morena Tel No: (014) 763 2252
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be mailed timeously to Private Bag X210, Lephalale, 0555
or hand delivered or couriered to Lephalale TVET College (Central Office),
Corner Nelson Mandela & Ngoako Ramatlhodi Drives, Onverwacht, Lephalale
0557 or the applications can alternatively be sent to:
recruitment@leptevtcol.edu.za. No late applications will be accepted.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr PM Mphethi/ Ms MN Morena
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z83 of
the Public Service Act, obtainable from any Public Service Department or any
Public Service and Administration website. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit a fully completed Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (e.g.
indicating positions held, dates and key performance areas/responsibilities).
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of the interviews following communication from the College.
Failure to submit the requested documents/information will result in your
52
application not being considered. Failure to comply with this requirement will
result in the candidate being disqualified. If you have not been contacted within
three (3) month after the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only and applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. The applicants must not have
previously participated in an internship programme in the Public Service. The
qualifications must be from an accredited institution of higher learning.
Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of race,
gender and disability will receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025 at 14:00
53
ANNEXURE G
INDEPENDENT POLICE INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE
The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively in terms of race, gender and disability within the
Department through the filling of posts.
APPLICATIONS : Independent Police Investigative Directorate, National Office Private Bag
X941, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver to Benstra Building, 473 Stanza Bopape
& Church Street, Arcadia, Pretoria, or email recruitment10@ipid.gov.za
(Please indicate the post name and reference number on the subject line) when
applying through e-mail.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr. DS Baloyi Tel No: (012) 399 0202
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on applications but must submit Z83 and a detailed Curriculum
Vitae. Applications quoting the correct reference number must be submitted on
the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents . Received applications using the incorrect
application form (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application for
employment form must be fully completed, signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. A recently updated, comprehensive CV as well
as a fully completed and initialled new signed Z83 (Section A, B, C & D are
compulsory and section E, F and G are not compulsory if CV it is attached).
However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under
Part-F must be answered. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit
Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification; it must be accompanied
by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA) (only when shortlisted). All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will
be subjected to a technical competency exercise that intends to test relevant
technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be communicated by
the Department. Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered. Due
to the large number of applications we envisage to receive, applications will not
be acknowledged, if you have not been contacted within three (3) weeks after
the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only.
Therefore, only shortlisted candidate for the post will be required to submit the
documents on or before the date of the interview. The successful candidate will
have to undergo security vetting. His / her character should be beyond
reproach. The appointment is subject to security clearance, verification of
qualifications and competency assessment (criminal record, citizenship, credit
record checks, qualification verification and employment verification). The
Department reserves the right to fill or not fill the any advertised posts.
Applicants must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations against them. Should this be uncovered during /
after the interview took place, the application will not be considered and in the
unlikely event, that the person has been appointed such appointment will be
terminated. The successful candidate will be appointed subject to positive
results of the security vetting process. All applicants are required to declare
any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships of Boards
and directorships that they may be associated with. The successful candidates
will be appointed on a probation period of 12 months and will be required to
sign a performance agreement. The suitable candidate will be selected with
the intention of promoting representivity and achieving affirmative action
targets as contemplated in the Department’s Employment Equity Plan.
OTHER POST
POST 42/77 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ICT SECURITY REF NO: Q9/2025/74
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : National Office
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification in ICT as recognized by SAQA or related field. 3-
5 years’ working experience in ICT security management. Knowledge
Requirements: Knowledge and understanding of government
54
regulations/prescripts/policies. Knowledge and understanding of departmental
policies relating to ICT. Knowledge of Firewall systems. Knowledge on network
monitoring tools. Knowledge and understanding of DMZ Zone. Knowledge of
ICT audit including server room compliance standards, Knowledge of
Hacking/penetration test. Knowledge of different software systems and
components. Knowledge of software and hardware configurations. Knowledge
of desktop, server hardware and software. Ability to evaluate documentation.
Knowledge of software application systems. Knowledge of back-up and
recovery systems. Knowledge of disaster recovery testing and business
continuity. Understanding if ICT network infrastructure and other related
matters. Skills and Competencies: Excellent written and oral communication
skills. Demonstrated customer service skills and focus. Proven ability to
manage multiple tasks and projects. Ability to think and act tactically.
Interpersonal skills. Project management skills. Troubleshooting skills.
Presentation Skills. Skill to analyse and evaluate systems, data, etc.
DUTIES : Coordinate ICT Security operations: Administer and monitor firewall activities,
provide monthly and quarterly reports, Monitor ICT security compliance with
departmental policies, procedures and prescripts, Monitor the Demilitarized
Zone (DMZ) on the network and generate reports. Administer and monitor user
activity on the network and reporting any violations. Protect data and system
integrity: Conduct network penetration and detection/prevention tests and
submit monthly reports. Conduct back-ups testing for integrity and restore
purposes. Verify that all systems and equipment on the Disaster Recovery (DR)
site are updated in line with the Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP). Verify that
archiving of emails is properly conducted for both outgoing and incoming
communications. Update software and hardware systems and equipment at
the DR site. Conduct ICT security risk and Compliance: Identify and report on
ICT security risks and threats and escalate complicated matters. Compile
monthly and quarterly reports. Identify information assets (ICT Systems),
potential threats and vulnerability. Evaluate ICT systems quarterly (software &
hardware) and submit reports. Conduct market research and benchmarking on
ICT security Technologies to improve services and submit reports. Document
all ICT security –related changes on system/networks and implementation.
Provide ICT security input for network upgrades, design and installations.
Respond to security related queries and solve them. Implement systems and
conduct Application Testing: Publish approved projects to the web application
for processing and implementation. Test new software and applications before
deployment to ensure compliance. Certify software and hardware before
installation or implementation. Manage resources and Record-keeping:
Conduct maintenance and awareness campaigns on ICT security matters.
Update all ICT security equipment and software records in registers. Verify
equipment and software for disposal to ensure compliance with policies and
prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T Moletsane Tel No: (012) 399 0016
55
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development’s mandate is to ensure that there is
accessible justice system in our vibrant and evolving constitutional democracy. It is responsible,
amongst others, to enable Access to Justice for all, promote Constitutionalism, Rule of Law, Respect for
Human Rights; and to coordinate the State Litigation and Legal Advisory Services. The Department is
therefore presenting an opportunity to dynamic individuals with relevant competencies to join a dynamic
team in its quest to fulfill its mandate and deliver justice services to the people of South Africa.
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post.
CLOSING DATE : 01 December 2025
NOTE : The application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that do
not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for
submission. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications.
All shortlisted candidates for posts will be subjected to a technical and/or
competency assessment. A pre-entry certificate obtained from National School
of Government (NSG) is required before appointment for all SMS positions.
Candidate will complete a financial disclosure form and also be required to
undergo a security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must
provide the Police Clearance certificate from country of origin only when
shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of
vacant posts the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South
Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant
Human Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Reasonable accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities
including where driver’s license is a requirement. Correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not hear from us within 3
months of this advertisement, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Target.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 42/78 : PROVINCIAL HEAD (X3 POSTS)
(This is a re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged
to re-apply).
SALARY : R1 494 900 – R1 787 328 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package).
The successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office: North West Ref No: 25/VA07/NW
Provincial Office: Northern Cape Ref No: 02/25/NC/PROV.OFF
Limpopo Provincial Office: Polokwane Ref No: 02/25/LMP
REQUIREMENTS : LLB Degree/An NQF level 7 qualification as recognized by SAQA in Social
Science/ Public Administration/ Management; 5 years experience at senior
management level in Court Management/Administration environment; Nyukela
Certificate is required before appointment for all SMS positions (Certificate for
Entry into the Senior Management Service from the (NSG) National School of
Government). Knowledge of the Law, Case Law, Criminal, Civil and Family
cases and interpretation of relevant statues, the Public Service and its
governance; Knowledge of service delivery Improvement Models, Facility and
Security Management; Knowledge of Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, Labour Relations Act, Promotion of
Access to Information Act, Employment Equity Act; Archival Act and
understanding of the Constitution; Knowledge and understanding of the Public
Service statutory frameworks; Financial Management and regulatory
56
framework/guidelines, the Public Service Act, the Public Service Regulations,
Treasury Regulations, Public Finance Management Act, Government initiatives
and decisions, etc. Skills and Competencies: Strategic leadership capability;
Programme and project management; Financial management; Change
management; Knowledge management; Service Delivery Innovation (SDI);
Problem solving and analysis; People management and empowerment; Client
orientation and customer focus; Communication skills; Honesty and integrity;
Ability to interpret statistics and written reports, Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage justice operations and related services in the
province; Manage the provision of legal administration and advisory services;
Manage and monitor human resource management and development services
in the province; Manage and administer the provision of financial management
services in the province; Manage and facilitate stakeholders relationship;
Manage human, finance and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : North West: Mr T Chabeli Tel No: (018) 397 7031
Northern Cape: Mr L Swart Tel No: (053) 802 1317
Limpopo: Mr D Chauke Tel No: (015) 287 2080
APPLICATIONS : North West: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735, or hand deliver it
at 22 Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mafikeng, 2745 OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Northern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: Postal address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice and
Constitutional Development, Private Bag X6106, Kimberley, 8300. OR hand
delivers at the New Public Buildings, (Magistrates Court) of Knight and Stead
Streets, 7th floor, Kimberley, 8301 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Limpopo: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X9526, Polokwane, 0700. OR Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Provincial Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0699.
OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
OTHER POSTS
POST 42/79 : SENIOR STATE LAW ADVISOR: LP9 REF NO: 25/120/LD
SALARY : R1 195 110 – R1 859 814 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : South African Law Commission: Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree or recognized 4 year legal qualification; At least 8 years
appropriate post qualification litigation/ advisory experience; Admission as an
Attorney or Advocate; Knowledge of the Constitutional Law and Administrative
Law, South African legal system, legal practices and related spheres with
specific reference to civil litigation and the law of contract; Knowledge of the
Institution of Legal Proceedings Against Certain Organs of State Act, the
Prescription Act; the State Attorney Act, the Public Finance Management Act,
the Treasury Regulations, the Departmental Financial Instructions and the
State Liability Act. Skills and Competencies: Applied strategic thinking; Applied
technology; Budgeting and financial management; Communication and
information management; Citizen focus and responsiveness; Diversity
management; Managing interpersonal conflict and resolving problems;
Planning and organizing; Decision making; Project management; Computer
literacy; Legal research and legislative drafting; Analytical thinking.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Plan and conduct research, including comparative
legal research in respect of the law of South Africa; Develop, improve and
modernize the law; Develop recommendations and draft legislation for law
reform; Prepare issue papers, discussion papers and reports that contain
research, recommendations and draft legislation for law reform; Conduct
extensive consultation with stakeholders with a view to obtain inputs and
comment on draft research papers; Conduct Socio Economic Impact Analysis
on research and legislative proposals; Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. R. Sema Tel No: (012) 315 1333
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address:
57
Application Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Street, Pretoria OR visit: https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 42/80 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS REF NO:
2025/56/MP
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mpumalanga
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) as recognized by SAQA in Social
Work/Psychology and registered with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions or Health Professions Council of South Africa. A minimum
of 3 years ‘experience in Employee Health and Wellness work environment at
managerial (Assistant Director) level. Knowledge on employee Health and
Wellness Integrated Strategic Framework in the Public Service; Sound
Knowledge of all four EHW Pillars; Knowledge and understanding of the Public
Service statutory frameworks: Financial Management and regulatory
framework/guidelines, the Public Service Act, the Public Service Regulations,
Treasury Regulations, Departmental Financial Instructions (DFI), the Public
Finance Management Act, the Public Service Regulations, Treasury
Regulations Act, Government initiatives and decisions. Skills and
competencies: Applied strategic thinking, Applied Technology, Budgeting and
financial management, Communication and information management,
Continuous improvement, Citizen Focus and responsiveness, Developing
others, Diversity management, Impact management, Impact influence,
Managing interpersonal conflict and Resolving problems, Planning and
organising, Decision making skills, Project management, Computer literacy;
Team leadership.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage, coordinate, implement and promote the
physical wellbeing (wellness programmes) of individuals employees; Manage,
implement and promote the psycho-social wellbeing (employee assistance) of
individual employees; Manage, implement and promote Work-Life Balance;
Manage and implement Health & Productivity interventions; Manage and
implement HIV/AIDS and TB Programmes; Manage and implement Safety,
Health Environment, and Risk & Quality Management (SHERQ) in the
workplace; Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. NC Maseko at 083 284 9056
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank Centre ,5th
Floor, Building, Nelspruit, 1200 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 42/81 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CRIMINAL ASSETS RECOVERY ACCOUNT REF NO:
25/113/FMS
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification in Financial Management/ Accounting as
recognized by SAQA; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in a financial
management and project environment at managerial (Assistant Director) level;
Knowledge and understanding of Public Service statutory frameworks:
Financial Management and regulatory framework/guidelines, prescripts, Public
Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations, Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA); Understanding of project/programme management
techniques and methods; Knowledge of performance evaluation principles;
Knowledge and understanding of Prevention of Organised Crime Act. Skills
and competencies: Applied strategic thinking; Applied technology; Budgeting
and financial management; Communication and financial management;
Continuous improvement; Citizen focus and responsiveness; Developing
others; Diversity management; Impact and influence; Managing interpersonal
conflict and resolving problems; Planning and organizing; Decision making;
Project management; Team leadership; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Coordinate project planning processes in line with
prescribed project management methodology; Monitor the end to-end
execution of all projects in line with approved project plans; Coordinate project
stakeholder relations; Evaluate project outputs and facilitate the
implementation of post-closure recommendations; Manage and monitor
58
financial reporting on Criminal Assets Recovery Account (CARA) and
President’s Funds; Manage human, finance and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Van Ross Tel No: (012) 315 1094
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address:
Application Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Street, Pretoria
POST 42/82 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: 25/14/KZN
SALARY : R397 116 – R 467 790 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Court: Ekuvukeni
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year National Diploma/ Bachelor’s Degree in Public Administration/
Public Management or equivalent; 3 years Administration experience;
Knowledge of Human Resource Management, Supply Chain Management and
Risk Management; Knowledge of Financial Management (Vote and Trust
Account), Departmental Financial Instructions (DFI), BAS and Justice Yellow
Pages (JYP); Skills and Competencies: People Management; Computer
literacy (Microsoft packages); Good communication skills (written and verbal);
Organizing and problem-solving skills; Sound leadership and management
skills; Good interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Co-ordinate and manage the financial and human
resources of the office; Co-ordinate and manage risk and security in the court;
Manage the strategic and business planning processes; Manage the Criminal
and Civil Court Administration Section, section related to Family Court, Supply
Chain; Manage Third Party Funds and Vote Accounts for the office; Co-
ordinate, manage and administer support services to Case Flow Management
and other court users.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NF Nkosi Tel No: (031) 372 3000.
APPLICATIONS : Quote the relevant reference number and courier your application to: Physical
address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place Off Anton Lembede
Street, Durban or drop-off on the above OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 42/83 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : State Attorney Kimberley Ref No: 39/25/NC/SA-KIM (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office; Laingsburg Ref No: 75/2025/WC (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent. Skills and competencies: Good
communication skills (written and verbal); Computer literacy (MS Office);
Administrative and organization skills; Ability to work under pressure; Customer
service; Document management and filing; Interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render general clerical support services; Provide
supply chain clerical support services within the component; Provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component; Provide financial
administration support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Northern Cape: Ms K. Fritz Tel No: (053) 802 1308
Western Cape: Ms P Paraffin Tel No: (021) 462 5471
APPLICATIONS : Northern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: Postal address: Postal address: The Provincial Head: Justice and
Constitutional Development, Private Bag X6106, Kimberley, 8300. OR hand
delivers at the New Public Buildings, (Magistrates Court) of Knight and Stead
Streets, 7th floor, Kimberley, 8301. OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Western Cape: Please direct your applications to: Provincial Head: Private
Bag X9171, Cape Town, 8000 OR physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th
Floor Norton Rose House, Cape Town OR visit:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P Paraffin
59
POST 42/84 : COURT INTERPRETER REF NO: 2025/13/MP
(This is a re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged
to re-apply)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Middelburg Magistrate Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification; Proficiency in English and one or more
indigenous language: Language requirement: Afrikaans. Skills and
Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Office); Good communication (written
and verbal); Administration and organizational skills; Ability to maintain
interpersonal relations; Accuracy and attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Interpret in Criminal Court, Civil Court, Labour Court,
quasi-judicial proceedings; Interpret during consultation; Translate legal
documents and exhibits; Record cases in criminal record book; Draw case
records on request of the Magistrate and Prosecutors; Keep records of
statistics; To perform any other duties he / she may be assigned to do in terms
of rationalizations of functions by the office.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. TV Mavundla at 078 802 0741
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank centre ,4th
floor building, Nelspruit 1200 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
60
ANNEXURE I
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 01 December 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success and the National
Treasury ICT unit was unable to assist. The applicant’s profile on the e-
Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83, and it is the responsibility
of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or their applications
will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note. Certain documentation
will still be required to be uploaded on the system such as copies of all
qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric certificate, ID, etc.,
however these documents need not be certified at point of application, however
certification will be required prior to attending the interview. Please note: All
shortlisted candidates will be subjected to two assessments. The first
assessment will be a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job, while the second assessment will be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment, the logistics of which will be communicated by the
Department. It should be noted that the National Treasury does not support the
use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in any of its recruitment and selection
processes and will disqualify an application if it picks up the use of AI when
completing assessments without acknowledging the source of information.
Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government, available as
an online course on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/, prior to finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS
positions. For SMS positions certain candidates may be required to undergo
additional Psychometric Assessments. All qualifications, criminal and SA
citizenship checks will be conducted on all short-listed candidates and, where
applicable, additional checks will be conducted in line with the new DPSA
Directive effective 01 April 2024. By submitting your application, it also means
you consent to the National Treasury processing your information for Human
Resources Management purposes. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level certificates) evaluated
by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at your own expense.
Upon appointment, successful candidates will be required to sign a
Performance Agreement within 3 months from date of appointment and for
candidates whose appointment exceeds 12 calendar months will be appointed
on probation for the period of twelve (12) calendar months excluding leave
taken as prescribed by Public Service Regulation 68. The status of your
application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system. However, if you have
not received feedback from the National Treasury within 3 months of the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. NOTE: The
National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned posts,
withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. All queries
must be submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment
Support Team on Recruitment.Enquiries@treasury.gov.za. The National
Treasury is compliant with the requirements of POPIA.
61
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 42/85 : DIRECTOR: MARKET CONDUCT REF NO: S110/2025
Division: Tax and Financial Sector Policy (TFSP)
Purpose: To monitor and assess developments in market conduct within the
financial sector and initiate policy and legislative framework developments that
promote consumer protection and the fair treatment of consumers.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum qualification (equivalent to
NQF level 7) in Economics or Law or Finance or Public Management
Governance. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at a middle or senior
managerial level obtained in the financial sector. Knowledge and experience of
consumer and financial services protection measures. Knowledge of the
legislative and regulatory framework on consumer protection. Knowledge of
financial and consumer ombudsman operations. Successful completion of the
Nyukela Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government available as an online course
on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/,
prior to finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Consumer Legislation and Regulation: Contribute to the development of the
legislation and regulatory framework for market conduct and consumer
protection. Monitor the implementation of the Twin Peaks process with respect
to market conduct. Participate in the enactment of necessary law/s through
Parliament. Consumer Protection: Guide and support the implementation of
the financial sector ombuds reform process. Conduct research and
benchmarking exercises on the latest trends and best practices for market
conduct and consumer protection. Provide policy guidance on specific aspects,
such as the Treating Customers Fairly principles. Governance Framework:
Develop and maintain a governance and oversight framework for financial
sector bodies reporting to the Minister, e.g. Financial Sector Conduct Authority,
Prudential Authority, Ombud Council, Pension Funds Adjudicator, FAIS
Ombud, Financial Services Tribunal, and other relevant institutions. Advise the
Minister on governance-related requests from financial sector bodies.
Stakeholders Engagement: Provide policy guidance and respond to policy
queries. Prepare policy briefings for the Minister on market conduct and
consumer protection initiatives. Provide responses and guidance in the
resolution of public queries with respect to market conduct complaints. Advise
stakeholders on issues regarding market conduct and consumer protection
legislation and regulation. Liaise with relevant international bodies to stay
abreast of developments.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 42/86 : SENIOR ECONOMIST: CGE MODELLING REF NO: S105/2025
Division: Economic Policy and International Coorperation (EPIC)
Purpose: To maintain a suite of CGE models and SAM databases for
implementation and consumption by stakeholders and provide policy analysis
and advice.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or a Bachelor’s Degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in
Economics or Mathematical or Econometrics. A minimum of 4 years’
experience of which 2 years should be at an Assistant Director level or
equivalent obtained in development of suites of databases and CGE models.
Knowledge and experience in developing and implementation of the simulation
of large CGE models. Knowledge and experience in interpreting and analysis
of information. Knowledge of policy formulation. Knowledge of the GAMS
software and programming.
DUTIES : Maintain SAM and Sectoral Databases: Assist with the development of
databases from various statistical sources and integrate relevant data. Assist
with the incorporation of statistical data into a SAM database. Provide macro-
economic data to stakeholders for inputs and development of statistical
62
information. Develop data sources and encourage stakeholder utilisation of
databases. Develop a Suite of CGE Models: Maintain existing CGE models
and assist with the formulation of future suites for improvement on data
integrity. Recommend adjustments to CGE models for alignment to policy and
analysis of data. Assist with the provision of policy advice with emphasis on
quantification of policy proposals and utilisation of the suite of CGE models.
Assist in the development of new models and potential data sources and
understanding of economic and related alignments. Policy Analysis and
Implementation: Assist with the production of well-researched instruments and
aligning of model outcomes to the policy determinations. Engage stakeholders
on new policy initiatives for consideration. Benchmarking and Research:
Initiate research and benchmarking exercises with recognised international
institutions on latest trends and best practices. Engage stakeholders for the
refinement of models and suites and their consideration prior to
implementation. Assist with the development of new tools in line with
international best practices and to keep abreast of new trends. Involve
stakeholders in findings for enrichment and improvement of modelling
practices and methodologies.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 42/87 : SENIOR ECONOMIST: ECONOMETRIC RESEARCH REF NO: S106/2025
Division: Economic Policy and International Coorperation (EPIC)
Purpose: To develop new economic models in alignment to specific policy
questions and enhance current models for the attainment of sound policy
analysis to the stakeholders.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or a Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in
Economics or Mathematical Economics or Econometrics. A minimum of 4
years’ experience of which 2 years should be at an Assistant Director level or
equivalent obtained within the application of various econometric techniques
and software. Knowledge and experience in economic research. Experience in
econometric analysis and model building. Knowledge and experience in model
programming.
DUTIES : Develop and Align Models to Specific Policy Questions: Initiate research in the
identification of innovative economic modelling techniques and propose
implementation. Develop economic models in response to policy questions and
challenges. Provide inputs in the formulation of policies to determine their
economic impact on the economy. Review and Enhance Models: Frequently
review current and future models and propose adjustments. Initiate
improvements for consultation and implementation of models. Assist with the
design of models to reflect the overall economic theory. Provide simulations of
projected scenarios within the National Treasury and other related government
departments. Policy Analysis and Development: Provide theoretical and well
researched reports that would align model outcomes to related policy
questions. Scrutinise policy and analyse latest trends for developmental
purposes. Provide inputs for improvement and development of econometric
modelling. Stakeholder Engagement and Research: Engage with recognised
international institutions on latest economic models and other relevant
information. Perform research on planned topics and provide data for future
usage. Attend forums and workshops on latest developments in econometric
research and related developments for integration within policy.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 42/88 : ECONOMIST: VALUE ADDED TAX, EXCISE AND SUB-NATIONAL TAXES
REF NO: S112/2025
Division: Tax and Financial Sector Policy (TFSP)
Purpose: To assist with the development of appropriate tax policy in the areas
of Value Added Tax, Excise, Taxes, Fiscal Decentralisation and other
consumption taxes to support fiscal reform in South Africa; and to assist in the
maintenance of a coherent indirect tax policy framework.
SALARY : R582 444 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
63
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or a Bachelor’s Degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in
Economics. A minimum of 3 years’ experience obtained in research and policy
analysis.
DUTIES : Value Added Tax (Assist): Reviews and analyses in support of VAT policy
advice with due regard to Distributional impact, Inflationary impact, and
Revenue impact. Undertake research, investigate and report on VAT policy
considerations. Assist with stakeholder consultation and client liaison,
comments and written replies. Investigate and analyse the implications of
proposed amendments to the VAT Act and support liaison with SARS on such
amendments. Assist and support liaison with legal drafters to ensure policy
proposals and amendments are incorporated into VAT law as intended
including submissions. Excise Taxation (Assist): Assist with reviews and
analyses to provide appropriate and timely Excise Tax policy advice with due
regard to Distributional impact, Inflationary impact, and Revenue impact,
especially relating to Alcohol, Tobacco taxes and Health Promotion Levy and
any other related excise taxes. Assist in stakeholder consultation and client
liaison with written replies and comments. Undertake research, investigate and
submit reviews in support of reports on Excise Tax policy considerations.
Investigate and analyse the implications of proposed amendments to the
Customs and Excise Act and liaising with SARS on such amendments. Support
and assist liaison with legal drafters to ensure policy proposals and
amendments are incorporated into Customs and Excise law as intended
including submissions. Fiscal Decentralisation: Assist in investigations of
appropriate tax instruments and revenue-sharing arrangements for sub-
national spheres of government. Assist in review of tax proposals by provinces
and local governments in respect of: Provincial taxes (including fuel taxes);
Municipal taxes (including property rates and user fee surcharges);Regional
Services Councils levies replacement (including local business tax, tax sharing
and grant replacement options), Liaise with legal drafters on policy proposals
and amendments for incorporation into law, Engage Intergovernmental
Relations business unit (IGR) and provide tax policy advice. Gambling Taxes
and other Indirect Taxes: Assist and prepare, develop, design and review other
indirect taxes for consideration and inclusion, Assist with databases
compilation, tax policy formulation, analysis of macro-economic impacts,
research, investigate, review and report on tax policy considerations,
Investigate and analyse the implications of proposed amendments to the
appropriate legal framework and assist in liaisons with SARS on such
amendments, Support Liaison with legal drafters to ensure policy proposals
and amendments are incorporated into law as intended including submissions.
Money Bills: Assist in evaluating the funding arrangements of extra-budgetary
agencies by way of earmarked levies and / or user charges.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 42/89 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ORGANISATIONAL EFFICIENCY REF NO:
S113/2025
Division: Corporate Services (CS)
Purpose: To provide technical and advisory support services on all
transactional and transformational organisational development and job
evaluation services within the National Treasury.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or a Bachelor’s Degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Industrial
Psychology or Operations Management or Human Resources Management or
Management Services. A minimum of 3 years’ experience with organisational
development. Knowledge and experience of the Job Evaluation principles and
processes. Knowledge and experience of onboarding and exit interviewing
processes and procedures. Knowledge and exposure to change management.
Knowledge or exposure to the PERSAL applications and Job Design principles.
Knowledge and experience of Survey Tools and Database administration.
DUTIES : Organisational Design: Implement organisational design requirements and
align with the regulatory requirements as prescribed and determined by the
DPSA, Engage stakeholders on the relevance of information for utilisation and
initiation of redesign and restructuring processes, etc, Provide and implement
a clear implementation plan in conjunction with the project support office,
64
Propose the re-evaluation of existing jobs on the departments approved
organizational structure after amendments, Conduct an overview of the
existing organisational structure and compile a preliminary business case and
change management plan for implementation, Review of supporting
information of stakeholders prior to consultation with the DPSA. Engage
stakeholders on organisational and job design policies and processes for
improvement, Advise clients on the implications of the re-designing of jobs and
structures, Change Management: Review the roles and responsibilities
required of different jobs in conjunction with business units., Initiate the
benchmarking and research relevant information on jobs with other
government departments and institutions., Analyse the status quo in business
units after job design interventions and provide remedial actions for
implementation, Propose the re-alignment of jobs and job families for
appropriateness to business, Review job descriptions and titles as prescribed
by the Public Service Regulations, Advise stakeholders on significant impact
of amendments to job descriptions, Communicate outcome of job evaluation to
stakeholders, Database Management: Consolidate and align JE Database with
approved establishment, Update JE Database with approved job evaluation
results, Align and link job descriptions against the appropriate posts on the JE
Database, Provide a support and advisory service to internal stakeholders prior
to the advertising of posts, Record keeping of all termination surveys for annual
reporting to the DPSA, Organisational culture and employee engagement
processes: Facilitate and coordinate the development and implementation of
organisational climate surveys, Facilitate and coordinate the development and
implementation of the national treasury employee engagement survey, Analyse
survey data, generate reports and present findings to relevant stakeholders,
Liaise with the stakeholders to facilitate the implementation of interventions to
improve employee engagement, Liaise with the stakeholders to facilitate the
creation and maintenance of a conducive organisational culture, Facilitate the
renewal of Survey Monkey Survey Tool subscription. Provide National Treasury
Surveys as requested as per clients’ requests, On-boarding and Exit
Management: Develop and administer the quarterly on-boarding survey for all
new joiners within the National Treasury, Convene and chair on-boarding
committee meetings for on-boarding process enhancement and review,
Analyse on-boarding survey data, compile quarterly on-boarding reports and
present findings to relevant stakeholders, Develop and administer termination
survey for all employees terminating services from the National Treasury,
Analyse exit survey data, compile quarterly exit management reports and
present findings to relevant stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 42/90 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: EXPENDITURE AND REVENUE REF NO:
S102/2025
Division: Office of The Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To assist with the compilation of creditor payments and review
allocated departmental receipts for debt settlement in conjunction with the
National Revenue Fund for transfers and payments.
SALARY : R397 116 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or a Bachelor’s Degree at (equivalent to NQF level 7) in
Accounting or Financial Management. A minimum of 2 years’ experience
obtained in a financial management environment. Knowledge of the
government procurement process. Knowledge and experience of transversal
financial systems utilised in government (PERSAL/ BAS/ LOGIS).
DUTIES : Payments of Creditors: Compile payment requisitions and allocate
departmental expenditure to the relevant beneficiaries, Capture invoices for
payments on LOGIS Procurement Integration in alignment with regulatory
requirements, Prepare management reports and other relevant information
pertaining to departmental expenditure/payments, Comply with relevant
guidelines, regulations and departmental prescripts applicable to expenditure
/payments. Transfer of Departmental Funds: Transfer funds to provinces,
municipalities and other entities in accordance with the approved transfer
schedule, Record all cash transfers and inform stakeholders on completed
transfers, Reconcile affected transfers through the transfer schedule and
accumulate a funds receipt confirmation. Cash Deposits and Departmental
65
Revenue: Issue receipts for cash deposits in alignment with allocations, Assist
with the allocation of departmental revenue and verify payments made to the
National Revenue Funds. National Treasury Bank Account and Petty Cash:
Advice on the reconciliation of the control accounts with the bank account as
prescribed, Verify transactions with support documents, Identify irregular
transactions and issuing advances on petty cash, Reconcile and verify all petty
cash transactions. Monitor Transactions on Suspense Account: Engage
institutions to recover amounts allocated to control/ suspense accounts,
Reconcile and clear amounts allocated to control/ suspense accounts, prepare
reports on information pertaining to the control/ suspense accounts.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 42/91 : PERFORMANCE AUDITOR REF NO: S103/2025 (X2 POSTS)
Division: Office of The Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To assist with audit of performance information engagements and
performance audits by evaluating management measures for resources
acquired economically and utilised efficiently and effectively in the execution of
prescribed audit processes and procedures.
SALARY : R397 116 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent to NQF level
6) or a Bachelor’s Degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Internal Audit or
Accounting. A minimum of 2 years’ experience obtained in an Internal Audit
environment. Experience of Internal Audit processes and procedures.
Knowledge of Performance Audit.
DUTIES : Provide inputs to the development of performance audit notification letters,
Perform preliminary surveys on planned performance audit and audit of
performance information engagements, Gather background information on
identified performance audit and audit of performance information, Initiate
interview sessions in preparation of performance audit and audit of
performance information engagements and analyse disseminated information,
Identify symptoms and assist with the development of audit objectives and
criteria for engagement. Audit Execution: Assist with the development of an
audit program for implementation, Test procedures as per the prescribed
performance audit and audit of performance information programme,
Determine root causes to address management measures that are lacking or
inadequate, Complete work papers and draw conclusions from test results,
Audit Reporting: Draft informal audit queries as per the prescribed performance
audit methodology, Confirm the findings and the impact of risk ratings of
performance audit and audit of performance information findings with clients
and draft recommendations on root causes, Assist with compiling draft audit
report, Follow up audit of Performance Audits: Follow up on previous
performance audit findings, Perform performance audit reviews through tests
and observations, Evaluate and capture action plans instituted by management
to rectify identified inadequate management measures, Assist with completion
of findings register to be reported to Audit Committee.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 42/92 : PROGRAMME COORDINATOR REF NO: S085/2025
Division: Asset and Liability Management (ALM)
Purpose: To coordinate and render an administrative support service to the
business unit striving towards the attainment of a cohesive and broader
integrated working environment.
SALARY : R397 116 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF Level 6) or Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Office
Administration or Public Administration or Business Management or Project
Management. A minimum of 2 years’ experience obtained in Administrative
environment. Knowledge of the legislative framework on administration
management within government. Knowledge and exposure to the coordination
of budget coordination processes. Knowledge of the analysis and interpretation
of internal policies for the correct application thereof.
DUTIES : Integrated Business Support: Co-ordinate and perform quality assurance on
processes pertaining to all in-coming and out-going memoranda for service
66
enhancement and standardisation. Develop and maintain a filing system for
record and audit purposes within the Office of the Chief Director, Monitor the
effectiveness of service delivery within the Office of the Chief Director and
propose improvement where necessary. Administer leave centrally within the
business environment and update the leave register for verification. Assist with
the monitoring of all procurement and administrative initiatives and verify
alignment of claims and invoices. Provide input to memoranda and record
receipt thereof on the electronic filing system for record purposes, editing, etc,
if and when required. Business Support: Acknowledge and confirm meetings,
invitations to workshops on behalf of the Office of the Chief Director. Provide
inputs to the compilation of agendas, initiating the taking minutes for the Office
of the Chief Director, and follow-up on outstanding commitments from
stakeholders. (Administer all duties with utmost discretion in the execution of
confidential matters and converse with clients in utmost diplomacy.
Stakeholder Relations and Engagement: Engage internal clients on the
coordination and enhancement of the integration of dual processes for
execution within the unit. Attend to clients’ needs, address concerns and
complains timeously, to improvement relations with stakeholders, and obtain
their trust. Analyse quotations for the attainment of the most effective and
efficient procurement of goods and services and advise accordingly. Budget
Co-ordination: Assist and prepare relevant documentation pertaining to the
consolidated budgetary inputs in compliance with the MTEF requirements and
cycle. Monitor expenditure against commitments and sensitise on possible
overspending. Initiate the movement of funds between items after consultation
with relevant stakeholders and compile relevant papers for execution.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 42/93 : ASSET VERIFICATION CLERK REF NO: S108/2025 (X3 POSTS)
Division: Office of The Director-General (ODG)
(12 Months Fixed Term Contract)
Purpose: To provide innovative, business processes and internal control review
pertaining to good corporate governance in National Treasury and its entities.
SALARY : R193 359 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum Grade 12 is required (equivalent to NQF level 4). A minimum of 0
– 12 months’ experience obtained in physical asset verification. Knowledge of
the asset verification and disposal process and administrative support.
DUTIES : Asset Register: Assist with supporting documentation needed and affixed all
assets with an identification tag. Provide general office and administrative
support pertaining to Asset Management activities. Dispose Redundant/
Obsolete Assets: Assist with the identification of redundant or obsolete assets
for disposal thereof. Assist with the verification of disposal in line with relevant
regulations and departmental prescripts. Assist to remove redundant assets to
demarcated area for safekeeping and ultimate disposal. Verify Departmental
Assets: Verify all departmental assets and report discrepancies and findings
for investigation. Assist with the alignment of Asset Register pertaining to the
verification outcomes and clean-up redundancies. Issue asset inventory forms
for users to acknowledge asset verified. at their area of responsibility.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
67
ANNEXURE J
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office (Midrand): Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Director: Human Resources, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand deliver applications to the Office
of the Chief Justice, Human Resource Management, 188, 14th Road,
Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685
Gauteng/Land Court Randburg/Pretoria: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief
Justice, Private Bag X7, Johannesburg, 2000. Applications can also be hand
delivered to the 12th floor, Cnr Pritchard and Kruis Street, Johannesburg
North West/ Mmabatho: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The OCJ Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private
Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735. Applications can also be hand delivered to 22
Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mafikeng.
Free State High Court: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag
X20612, Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand deliver applications to the Free State High
Court, Corner President Brand and Fontein Street, Bloemfontein, 9301.
Northern Cape: Kimberly: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag
X5043, Kimberley, 8300 or hand deliver applications to the Northern cape
division of the High Court, Corner sol plaatjie Drive, Kimberly
KwaZulu-Natal/ Durban: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag
X54314, Durban, 4001. Applications can also be hand delivered to 1st Floor
Office No 118, CNR Somtseu8 & Stalwart Simelane Streets, Durban, 4000.
Mpumalanga/ Middelburg/Mbombela: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head: Office of the Chief
Justice, Private Bag X20051, Mbombela 1211. Applications can also be hand
delivered to, Mpumalanga Division of the High Court, Office of the Chief Justice
Provincial Service Centre, 311 Samora Machel Drive, Mbombela, 1200.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. All shortlisted candidates
shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment
method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical
and generic requirements. Each application form must be fully completed, duly
signed and initialed on both pages by the applicant. The application must
indicate the correct job title, the office where the position is advertised and the
reference number as stated in the advert. Failure by the applicant to fully
complete, sign and initial the application form will lead to disqualification of the
application during the selection process. Applications on the old Z83 will
unfortunately not be considered. Should you be in a possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation 7considered. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
financial checks, qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference checks
and employment verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months after
the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
68
unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with
the above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late, will
not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in
the application not being considered during the selection process. All
successful candidates will be expected to enter into an employment contract
and a performance agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be
required to undergo a security clearance three (3) months after appointment.
The Office the Chief Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal
information provided to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more
specifically for the purpose of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the
event that your application was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice
will retain your personal information for internal audit purposes as required by
policies. All the information requested now or during the process is required for
recruitment purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your
application null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the
security and confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment
process.
ERRATUM: kindly note that the post of Judge’s Secretary with Ref No:
2025/270/OCJ advertised on Public Service Vacancy Circular 39 dated 24
October 2025, is 12 months nonrenewable contact.
OTHER POSTS
POST 42/94 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: 2025/311/OCJ
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive remuneration
package. The successful candidate will be required to sign a performance
agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, A relevant tertiary qualification at NQF level 6/7 (Accounting/
Auditing/ Internal Auditing). A postgraduate qualification or PIA/CIA or similar
certification will serve as an added advantage, three (3) years supervisory
experience at Assistant Director (ASD) internal audit. Institute of Internal
Auditors South Africa (IIASA) membership. A valid driver’s license.
Competencies: Knowledge of internal audit, accounting principles and
business process review. Knowledge of the Global Internal Audit Standards
(GIAS) developed by the Institute of Internal Auditors. Application of Audit
Technology. Knowledge of the PFMA and Treasury Regulations.
Understanding of relevant Public Service Regulations, Effective
communications skills. Good interpersonal skills. Effective Leadership
capabilities. Business Acumen. Persuasion and Collaboration. Creativity and
innovation. Advanced Computer skills. Communication (verbal & written) Skills.
Financial management. Project Management Skills. Planning and Organising
Skills. Analytical and Decision-Making Skills. Decision making skills. Strategic
and analytical skills.
DUTIES : Develop strategic internal audit plans, methodologies, policies and procedures.
Evaluate the department’s controls, to determine their effective and efficiency
through internal audit projects to ensure achievement of department’s
objectives. Collect, collate, review information and compile reports for the
Director Internal Audit, Senior Management and Audit and Risk Management
(ARC). Marketing of the IAS and keeping up to date with new developments in
the internal audit environment. Manage the sub-directorate Internal Audit.
ENQUIRIES : Technical related enquiries: Ms. P. Mkhize Tel No: (010) 493 2500
HR Related enquiries: Ms. S. Tshidino Tel No: (010) 493 8771
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/311/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 42/95 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STRATEGY AND SERVICE DELIVERY PLANNING
REF NO: 2025/312/OCJ
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive remuneration
package. The successful candidate will be required to sign a performance
agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
69
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, National Diploma in Strategic Management/ Corporate Governance/
Social Sciences/ Development Studies/ Economic Science / Public
Administration or relevant qualification at (NQF level 6), a minimum of three (3)
years’ junior management level/ ASD experience in Strategy and Service
Delivery Planning environment and a valid Driver’s License. Knowledge and
Skills: Comprehensive knowledge and understanding of government
legislations, and government prescripts including the Revised Framework for
Strategic Plan and Annual Performance Plan, Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Public Service Act, and Public Service Regulations, 2016. Sound
understanding of strategic planning, strategy formulation. Proficient in project
management, planning, organisation, research and analytical decision-making.
Advanced computer literacy with strong communication, presentation, and
report writing skills. Skilled in problem-solving, statistical analysis, and
strategising. Demonstrates innovation, creativity, and adaptability with a high
level of confidentiality, accountability, and attention to detail. A self-driven,
assertive team player able to work independently, meet deadlines, and perform
effectively under pressure.
DUTIES : Provide administrative and technical support in the development, coordination,
and implementation of the OCJ Annual Performance Plan (APP), Consolidated
Operational Plan, and Environmental Scan Report. Support the facilitation of
stakeholder engagements, alignment with national planning frameworks, and
preparation of presentations for management and oversight structures. Assist
in coordinating Strategy and Service Delivery Planning (SDP) processes,
including performance reporting, data analysis, and monitoring of institutional
targets. Provide administrative and managerial support to the Sub-Directorate
in areas of human resources, procurement, communication, and records
management. Maintain filing systems, coordinate meetings, and perform
secretariat duties for the Strategy and Service Delivery Planning Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms P. Mahlangu Tel No: (010) 493 2501
HR Related Enquiries: Ms. S. Tshidino Tel No: (010) 493 8771
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/312/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 42/96 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: AUXILIARY SERVICES REF NO: 2025/313/OCJ
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Free State Supreme Court of Appeal
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, National Diploma in Building Management/Safety Management/
Construction Management or equivalent qualification at (NQF level 6), a
minimum of three (3) years’ experience in Facilities and Auxiliary Services and
a valid Driver’s License. Knowledge and Skills: Occupational Health and
Safety Act and other Building Regulations, general Built environment including
mechanical, electrical Water Services Act, National Environmental
Management Act 107 of 1998 (NEMA), Horticultural processes and Cleaning
Industry, Public Finance Management Act, (PFMA), Supply Chain
Management framework, directives and procedures, Government Budget
processes and procedures, report writing, project management and
implementation. Analytical skills, communication skills (written and verbal),
Computer literacy skills, Research and planning skills, Report writing skills,
interpersonal relations, decision making skills, presentation skills, problem
solving and analysis skills, planning and organizing skills, supervisory skills,
people Management and Empowerment, meticulous, flexible, Self-driven, able
to work under pressure, ability to multi-task, attention to detail, teamwork and
self-motivated.
DUTIES : Ensure implementation of facilities and infrastructure projects at OCJ service
centres: Conduct accommodation needs audit with service centres,
consolidate User Assets Management Plan (UAMP) for OCJ, manage Office
space planning and parking allocation, evaluate fire safety assessments
reports and compile action plans to remedy gaps. Ensure day-to-day
maintenance function for OCJ service centres: Develop maintenance plan for
OCJ, coordinate and monitor maintenance services, monitor and report on the
status and progress of maintenance and update Action Log, monitor and report
on the cleaning and maintenance of gardening services. Execute operations
related to facilities within OCJ: Ensure management of contracts within OCJ:
Provide support in management of expenditure within sub-directorate,
70
implement and ensure compliance to facilities polices and Standard Operating
Procedures (SOP), ensure procurement of goods and services for Head Office
and Service centres, coordinate the facilities and auxiliary services for the OCJ,
compile specifications and handle inspections in the cleaning field, Manage
and control equipment and material register, coordinate outsourced services
within the OCJ, facilitate and manage telecommunication services, ensure the
provision of handyman services. Supervise and develop staff: Ensure general
supervision of employees, allocate duties and perform quality control on the
work delivered by officials, manage leave of staff, advise and lead supervisees
with regard to all aspects of the work, manage performance, conduct and
discipline of employees, ensure that all employees are trained and developed
to be able to deliver work of the required standard efficiently and effectively,
develop, implement and monitor work systems and processes to ensure
efficient and effective functioning and address enquiries and provide advice
and guidance on asset allocation and control.
ENQUIRIES : Technical related enquiries: Mr. V.Z.J Zwane Tel No: (051) 492 4695
HR Related enquiries: Ms. N. de la Rey Tel No: (051) 492 4523
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/313/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 42/97 : LAW RESEARCHER REF NO: 2025/314/OCJ (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Matric; an LLB (or four-year recognised legal
qualification); and at least three (3) years of dedicated legal research
experience in a legal/judicial, regulatory, or policy environment. Candidates
must demonstrate in-depth knowledge of the Judicial Service Commission Act,
1994 and the Code of Judicial Conduct, a sound understanding of the
Constitution and related legislation, and advanced research and analytical
capability. Strong report-writing and editing skills; excellent written and verbal
communication; computer literacy (MS Office) and proficiency with legal
research platforms (Sabinet, LexisNexis, Jutastat) are essential. Additional
strengths include planning and organising, basic project management, the
ability to integrate knowledge from diverse sources, problem-solving, accuracy
and attention to detail, stakeholder-savvy interpersonal skills, and the capacity
to work independently and under pressure. Demonstrated understanding of the
functioning of commissions and tribunals is required; experience in a regulatory
enforcement environment and admission as an attorney/advocate will be an
advantage. A valid driver’s licence and willingness to travel are required.
DUTIES : Provide support to legal research functions for the Judges and other Court
officials: Provide support with legal research on various legal issues, statutes,
rules, regulations, and case law, Analyse and apply complex legal principles
and provide summaries to the judges, Provide research support to judges in
the preparation of hearings and trials, Carry out research and retrieve all
material from all sources in both hard copy and electronic formats on legal
issues, as requested by a Judge, Provide analysis through studying all the
relevant material, Study all the relevant material and provide a thorough
analysis thereof. Prepare and compile legal opinions: Provide support to the
judges with legal arguments analysis submitted by litigants, evaluate merits of
each argument, Research supporting and opposing case law (precedent) and
provide recommendations to the judges, review legal issues, arguments, and
relevant case law in the form of legal memos, Prepare a comprehensive
memorandum on the outcome of the legal research. Provide support with
drafting of clear, consistent and comprehensive judgments: Provide support to
judges in reviewing and proofreading draft judgment(s) to ensure clarity and
accuracy, Proofread all judgments, articles, speeches and conference papers
with respect to spelling and grammar, Quality assure all references and
footnotes in all judgments and legal articles against the original text to ensure
correctness and accuracy, Correct mistakes (typos) with the help of track
changes so that judges can accept or decline any proposed changes. Ensure
that Judges are up to date on recent developments in case law, practice
directives and legislation: Quality assure the maintenance of knowledge of
recent legal developments, new legislation, and relevant case law, provide
support to the monitoring of legal journals, ensure that judges have access to
71
the latest legal information, Keep up breast with recent developments in
relevant areas of law, such as legislative changes, new precedents, and
emerging legal trends.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms M Songca Tel No: (010) 493 2575
HR Related Enquiries; Ms. S. Tshidino, Tel No: (010) 493 8771
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/314/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
departmental employment equity goals.
POST 42/98 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FACILITIES MANAGEMENT REF
NO: 2025/315/OCJ
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, National Diploma in Building Management/Safety Management/
Construction Management or equivalent qualification at (NQF level 6). A
minimum of two (2) years’ experience in Facilities management environment
and a valid Driver’s License. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of property
evaluation methodology: Knowledge of lease agreement negotiations and
BBBE procedure, knowledge of OHSAS 18001, knowledge of building
maintenance, knowledge of project Management, Knowledge of Treasury and
PFMA Regulations, Batho Pele Principles, computer Literacy, report writing
skills, research skills, planning skills, excellent communication skills (written
and verbal), interpersonal Relations, facilitation skills, ability to work
independently, people orientated, professionalism, creative thinking, teamwork
and time bound.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support within Facilities Management unit: Facilitate
and coordinate the submission of monthly reports, collate and quality assure
monthly and quarterly reports, attend to facilities services requests at National
Office, co-ordinate logistical arrangements for meetings when required, ensure
the safekeeping of all documentation in the office, provide support in drafting
and distributing memos, or reports. Coordinate day to day maintenance
services of the office buildings: Inspect the facility on a monthly basis, register
and monitor reported facilities issues, monitor the status and progress of
maintenance work, respond to inquiries in relation to facilities management,
updated status on Action Log monthly, monitor the completion of maintenance
tasks, keep accurate records of maintenance activities and expenses.
Promote workplace efficiency by optimizing workstations, equipment, while
ensuring a safe, comfortable, and productive work environment: Provide
officials with safe office space and functional office furniture, provide
comfortable office equipment to officials, conduct inspections on office
equipment, identify needs for repairs and replacements. Monitor and
administer the Auxiliary services: Provide support in drafting the policies and
procedures for the provision of auxiliary services, conduct an inventory of all
auxiliary services provided, conduct regular audits and performance reviews.,
provide feedback on status of repairs to the reporting client, ensure that
telephony services and administration are up to date, supervise and develop
staff, ensure general supervision of employees, allocate duties and perform
quality control on the work delivered by officials, manage leave of staff, advise
and lead supervisees with regard to all aspects of the work, manage
performance, conduct and discipline of employees, ensure that all employees
are trained and developed to be able to deliver work of the required standard
efficiently and effectively, develop, implement and monitor work systems and
processes to ensure efficient and effective functioning and address enquiries
and provide advice and guidance on asset allocation and control.
ENQUIRIES : Technical related enquiries: Ms M Modisakeng Tel No: (011) 493 2541
HR Related enquiries: Ms. S. Tshidino Tel No: (010) 493 8771
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/315/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 42/99 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SDIP REF NO: 2025/316/OCJ
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08), The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
72
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, National Diploma in Public Administration or equivalent qualification
at (NQF level 6), A minimum of two (2) years’ experience/ supervisory level and
a valid driver’s license. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge and understanding
of Service Delivery Improvement Programmes, understanding and knowledge
of Batho Pele Principles, knowledge and understanding of Strategic Planning,
computer literacy, planning and analysis skills, problem solving skills, time
management skills, presentation skills, communication and report writing skills,
presentation skills, honesty, accountability, team player, attention to detail,
Flexibility, creativity and self-motivated.
DUTIES : Provide administrative and technical support during the development and
implementation of OCJ Annual Performance Plan and Operational Plan,
provide support in the development of the OCJ Environmental Scan Report,
provide administrative and technical support in the development of the Annual
Performance Plan and Operational Plans, provide support in coordinating and
the development of the OCJ Consolidated Operational Plan. Provide technical
and administrative support in the implementation and monitoring of the OCJ
Service Delivery Charter and Service Delivery Improvement Plan: Develop
quarterly and annual SDC and SDIP reporting templates, review and analyse
quarterly and annual reports from reporting courts, communicate with the
courts for rectification of misaligned information, consolidate and formulate
analysed data into report, submit consolidated and analysed reports for inputs,
incorporate inputs and submit final draft report for approval. Provide support
in implementation of Public Service Month in the OCJ according to the PDSA
Directives: Consult with Communications Unit on Public Service Month (PSM)
Awareness Information posters to be disseminated to the OCJ officials,
conduct research on the contents of the PSM posters according to the DPSA
directives, develop 5 PSM Posters. Provide administrative support during
Batho Pele (BP) activities: Attend to Batho Pele Awareness Sessions and
provide administrative support, provide the analysed Batho Pele Awareness
Reports, participate in National Batho Pele Forum. Maintain records
management, resources and correspondences of the Strategy and Service
Delivery Planning Unit: Arrange a stationery for the unit, maintain filling of
documents, archive of Strategy and Service Delivery Improvement documents
and secretariat role in the meetings of the Strategy and Service Delivery
Planning Unit or relevant meetings facilitated by the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Technical related enquiries: Ms. K. Motiyane Tel No: (010) 493 2642
HR Related enquiries: Ms. N. de la Rey Tel No: (051) 492 4523
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/316/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals
POST 42/100 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: MONITORING, EVALUATION &
REPORTING REF NO: 2025/317/OCJ
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, a National Diploma in Public Administration or equivalent
qualification on NQF level 6, two (2) years’ relevant experience in planning,
monitoring, evaluation and reporting environment; and Valid driver’s license
and be able to travel. Skills and Competencies: Understand the relevant
legislations and prescripts in relation to Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting.
job Knowledge, quality of work, initiative, team work, planning and execution,
Innovation and proactive, time Management, flexibility, patience and be able to
Communicate effectively.
DUTIES : Verification of statistical data on default judgements finalised within 12 court
days, Opposed and Unopposed taxations of legal bills of costs (60 and 40
days) and Warrants of liberation (J1), to assist the department in avoiding
AGSA findings, collection, consolidation and analysis of performance
information from business in order to track their performance on an annual and
quarterly basis, quarterly and annual performance information reporting,
Provide overall administrative support to the M, E &R Unit, Annual Performance
information reporting and submission of the OCJ Auditable Annual Report, to
assist in the production of quarterly and annual performance information
reports and compilation of memos for submission.
ENQUIRIES : Technical related enquiries: Ms. K. Motiyane Tel No: (010) 493 2642
HR Related enquiries: Ms. N. de la Rey Tel No: (051) 492 4523
73
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/317/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 42/101 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT PRACTITIONER REF NO: 2025/318/OCJ
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, National Diploma in Supply Chain Management/ Economics/
Finance/ Financial Management/ Procurement/ Logistic/ Public Administration
or relevant qualification at (NQF level 6), A minimum of one (1) years’
experience in Supply Chain Management environment. and a valid driver’s
license. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge and understanding of administrative
and procurement procedure, knowledge of the Public Financial Management
Act, knowledge of supply chain management frameworks, policies and
procedures, knowledge of budgeting and financial management, knowledge of
procurement policies and relevant legislation prior to awarding contracts,
knowledge of PPPFA regulations, Public Service Act 1994, Public Service
Regulations 2016, National Treasury Regulations, good understanding of
departmental prescripts and frameworks (e.g. departmental codes: COIDA and
BBBEE, Batho Pele Principles, computer literacy MS Office, MS Power Point,
MS Word, MS Excel, strategic and conceptual orientation, planning, organising
and problem-solving skills, Financial management and interpersonal skills,
decision making and time management, communication skills, report writing
skills, ability to work independently, people orientated, professionalism,
creative thinking, teamwork, time bound, assertive and flexible.
DUTIES : Render bidding administration function to the Bidding Committee: Render
secretariat service to the Bid Evaluation Committee and Bid Adjudication
Committee (includes obtaining approval), provide support in the compilation of
bid documents and submit specification to the Bid Committee and finance
department for budget purposes, prepare tender averts, receive and open bid
documents, receive submissions of expressions of interest, arrange and
coordinate tender briefing sessions and prepare attendance registers, Compile
a database of approved suppliers, source quotations from database according
to the threshold values determined by the National Treasury. Render
procurement of goods and services function through effective and efficient
demand management services: Source quotations from accredited suppliers
through database, provide review on quotations, specifications and all
documents supplied by the supplier in order to comply with the prescribed
requirements, arrange and coordinate briefing sessions where necessary,
provide support with the implementation of procurement policies in line with
relevant prescripts and legislations, generate purchase orders, submissions for
approval and submission of purchase orders to the relevant parties, provide
support in the receipt of goods and services through the MIS and submission
to Finance department. Provide support with the provision of an effective
Contract Management service for OCJ, provide support with the processing of
renewals, amendments and termination of contracts promptly, ensure the
notification of end-users and service providers of contract expiry dates,
Implement a document management system to safeguard/control contracts,
provide support with evaluating the performance of contractors/service
providers against stipulations in the contract or SLAs, Ensure proper
relationship with suppliers within the code of ethics to ensure delivery of
goods/services. Ensure the coordination of tender processes: Monitor tender
portal, industry publication and networking with potential clients, conduct
tender evaluation and develop a winning strategy, develop a comprehensive
proposal that showcase the capabilities, experience, and value proposition,
ensure that the bid is submitted within the specifies deadline and in the required
format. Render administrative service: Conduct proper filling system for all the
records, schedule and organise meetings, render secretarial services to the
meetings within the unit, update and maintain the project dashboard for the
unit, Facilitate the subsistence and travel claims for the unit, facilitate
procurement of stationary and all other petty cash purchases and handle
incoming and outgoing office correspondence.
ENQUIRIES : Technical related enquiries: Mr. M Ngonyama Tel No: (010) 493 2560
HR Related enquiries: Ms. S. Tshidino Tel No: (010) 493 8771
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/318/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
74
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 42/102 : INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: 2025/319/OCJ
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate., National Diploma in Internal Audit/ equivalent qualification at
(NQF level 6), a minimum of two (2) years’ experience in the Internal Audit
environment, Knowledge of information technology (IT) audits will be an added
advantage. A driver’s license. Competencies: Knowledge of the Global Internal
Audit Standards (GIAS) developed by the Institute of Internal Auditors, Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, Public Service
Regulations, Public Service Act International Financial Reporting Standards,
Recognized accounting standards, Auditor General Processes and
Procedures. Knowledge of DPSA ICT and Governance Framework. Computer
literate, Good communication skills, Numerical skills. Ability to work under
pressure, Flexible and Self-confidence.
DUTIES : Participate in the development of strategic internal audit plan and annual
internal audit plans. Assist with audit planning, perform execution of audit
projects, prepare findings for audit fieldwork and perform follow up audits.
Provide support to the organisation in maintaining efficient and effective control
by evaluating the department’s controls/objectives. Keep abreast with new
developments in the internal audit environment. Provide support with audit
assignments to ensure an effective internal audit service. Render
administrative tasks in support of the audits.
ENQUIRIES : Technical related enquiries: Mr. T. Mokgope Tel No: (010) 493 2500
HR Related enquiries: Ms. S. Tshidino Tel No: (010) 493 8771
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/319/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 42/103 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2025/320/OCJ (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Land Court: Randburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, An LLB degree or a minimum of 20 modules completed towards an
LLB, BA (Law), BCom Law degree, A minimum of two years secretarial
experience or as an office assistant in legal environment, a valid drivers’
licence, to pass typing test Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Court Online
system, and. Shortlisted candidates will be required to pass a typing test.
Skills and Competencies: Communication skills (verbal and written),
Administration skills, Planning and Organisational skills, Exceptional
Interpersonal skills, Customer service skills, Excellent Typing skills including
Dictaphone typing, Time Management skills, Proficiency in Microsoft Office
Programs, Research capabilities, Problem solving, Good Judgment and
Decision-Making skills, Proficiency in English, Display maturity, Assertiveness
and Confidence to interact at all Levels, Maintain Positive attitude, Good
Interpersonal Relations with ability to Take charge, Able to work under
pressure, Ability to multitask, Ability to take charge, Flexible, Patience and
kindness, Professionalism, Maintain a positive attitude.
DUTIES : Provide general secretarial/administration duties to the DCJ. Typing (or
Formatting) of draft memorandum decisions, opinions or judgments entries
written by or assigned by the DCJ. Manage and type correspondence, draft
directions, and judgments for the DCJ. Arrange and Diarise appointments,
meetings and official visits and make travel and accommodation arrangements.
Update files and chamber documents and provide such copies of documents
as is necessary to the Registrar. Store, keep and file court records safely.
Manage the DCJ’s vehicle logbook. Compile data, statistical reports, and
documents for the DCJ and Registry section as and when this is required.
Manage expense reports, financial disclosure statements, and case
management reports. Provide Secretarial support to the Judiciary: Diarize the
appointments and meetings of the Judge, type and file the judgments, ensure
the Judgments that are handed down (delivered), signed draft orders granted
in court or virtually are sent to the Typist for scanning, upload unto Case-
75
lines/Court-Online and the Library, ensure that all visitors are received,
screened and their queries are attended to, record all incoming and outgoing
documents, order and collect stationery for the Judge. Provide support
functions to Civil, Criminal and review matters/courts and case allocations in
chambers: Collect the files before the commencement of a criminal matter from
the Registrar’s office at the Criminal section, keep update the register of
reviews and sign on receipt to return the reviews to the Clerk, ensure that the
register/template of the reserved judgement is updated and notify the Statistics
Officer and the office of the Judge President when judgment has been handed
down, ensure that the transcribed judgements from transcribers reach the
Judges for approval and signature, prepare court rolls for Opposed Motion and
Urgent Court and distribute to stakeholders, ensure that the Heads of
Arguments from various stakeholders are available to the Judge as per the
filing that was done. Provide support functions to civil / criminal courts: Ensure
that the bench book of the Judge is prepared and files are taken by Ushers to
Court before the commencement of the proceedings, ensure that all
stakeholders involved are present in court before commencement of
proceedings, ensure that all cases are called on record as per the court roll by
means of calling the case number and the parties’ names, before a Judge can
allow parties to start with their matters, administer the correct Oath ID or
declaration in court, when required, ensure that in the Criminal Court exhibits
are handled, controlled and noted professionally. Provide general
administrative support to the Judiciary: ensure that all the travel,
accommodation arrangements are in order and attend to sign the documents
for approval, ensure that the Judge’s logbook is submitted on or before the 5th
of every month to the Transport Officer, Ensure that the car is booked for either
maintenance and service, receive the pre-authorisation for the Judge’s vehicle,
remind Judge of the invoices so that the submission of the S&T claims can be
processed, Ensure the submissions of Cell phone and 3G data claims for
process purposes, ensure that all updates on the loose leafs in the Judges
library are attended to (in dispute).
ENQUIRIES : Technical Enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
HR Enquiries: Ms Mhlabi Tel No: (010) 493 6316
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/320/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 42/104 : EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS PRACTITIONER REF NO:
2025/321/OCJ
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, a three-year National Diploma / Bachelor Degree in Social Science
/ Social Work / Psychology or Equivalent Qualification at NQF level 6 with (360
Credits) as recognised by SAQA and a minimum of 2 years’ functional
experience in Employee Health and Wellness field. Registration with SACSSP/
HPCSA / relevant statutory body. Valid driver’s license. Knowledge and Skills:
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
public service. Knowledge and thorough understanding of Batho Pele
principles. Knowledge and understanding of the Employee Health and
Wellness Strategic framework, HIV/AIDS Policies, Sick Leave management,
PILIR Policy and Stress Management. Policies governing EHW Project
Planning and Management. Analytical thinking skills. Problem solving skills.
Decision making skills. Motivational skills. Project planning and management
skills. Marketing skills. Facilitation and presentation skills. Computer skills.
Report writing skills. Ability to Communicate (Verbal & written). Interpersonal
relations. Self-Management. Creative thinking.
DUTIES : Coordinate and implement EHW Programmes within the OCJ. Coordinate
psychosocial wellness through preventive and curative programs within the
OCJ. Coordinate events related to Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) in
line with the departmental strategic objectives. Conduct assessment, referrals,
counselling and intervention support to staff and Conduct needs analysis for
employee within the institution. Conduct training for Managers, Supervisors,
and Staff on their role on Employee Wellness and overall marketing of the
Wellness programme. Provide awareness and education on the health and
wellness issues. Implement and coordinate Employee Health and Wellness
76
strategic frameworks (SOPs, policies et.). Implement standard operating
procedures in line with the EHW programmes policies. Implement and ensure
policies are in line with the new developments in the field of EHWP. Conduct
awareness campaigns. Capture statistics, analyse data and compile report
regarding the findings and recommendations. Provide logistical support in
commemoration of HIV/AIDS, STI and TB events in accordance with the station
strategic plan within OCJ. Coordinate screening for chronic diseases. Provide
support in the implementation of diversity management programmes within
OCJ. Coordinate, evaluate and implement Gender, Disability, Youth and
Diversity Management Programmes within the organization. Facilitate and
support the establishment of Women, Men and Disability forum within the
organization. Promote the mainstreaming, development and empowerment of
women, men, youth and people living with disability. Provide support in the
implementation of OHS framework and related activities. Coordinate and
implement occupational health and safety education and training to enable
preparedness for hazards and risk. Coordinate Emergency Evacuation Drills
and manage relations with external emergency stakeholders. Render
employee health and wellness administrative services. Ensure client’s files are
updated and kept confidential.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms K Maloba Tel No: (010) 493 8774
HR Related enquiries: Ms S Tshidino Tel No: (010) 493 2500/2533
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/321/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 42/105 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: (DCRS) REF NO: 2025/322/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Labour And Labour Appeals Court: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate (NQF 4), No experience is required. A three-year relevant
qualification (National Diploma at NQF level 6) with 360 credits as recognized
by SAQA and a valid driver’s license will be an added advantage. Knowledge
and Skills: Knowledge of the digital recording process e.g. system tests,
recording equipment is properly functional, fault reports, Knowledge of court
proceedings, Knowledge of digital filing system, Knowledge of manual filing
system Job knowledge. Good communication skills (verbal and written).
Interpersonal relations skills. Flexibility. Teamwork. Planning and organisation
skills. Computer literacy (MS Office). General Administration / Court related
functions regarding court recordings. Good customer services.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support in pre-recording of court proceedings. Render
proper recording of court proceedings. Perform playback events during or after
the session. Perform collection of statistic. Attend to general administrative
functions for court administration. Provide administrative support as required
by the Court Manager and/or Registrar and/or Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Enquiries: Mr S Cele Tel No: (031) 4926207
HR Enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493 1723
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/322/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 42/106 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: 2025/323/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE Mpumalanga Division of The High Court: Middelburg High Court
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, No experience is required. A three-year relevant qualification (NQF6)
within records management will serve as an added advantage. A three-year
relevant qualification (National Diploma at NQF level 6) with 360 credits as
recognized by SAQA will be an added advantage. Knowledge and Skills:
Communication skills (verbal and written). Problem solving skills.
Administrative skills. Good public relation skills. Time Management skills.
Monitoring and analytical skills. Computer literacy skills (Microsoft Teams).
Planning and organizing skills. Report writing skills. Typing skills.
Understanding of confidentiality in Government. Knowledge of clerical duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting
77
statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing Public Service.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organize, store, capture and
retrieve correspondences and data. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services. Provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component. Provide financial
administration support services in the component. Capture and update
expenditure in component.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries Ms DY Seswene Tel No: (013) 492 2213
HR enquiries: Mr SJ Zwane / Mr MV Maeko Tel No: (013) 758 0000
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/323/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 42/107 : TYPIST REF NO: 2025/324/OCJ
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Mpumalanga Division of The High Court: Mbombela High Court
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. No experience required. A valid Driver’s license will serve as an
advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge
and Skills: Knowledge of the legal terminology, court procedures, rules and
environment, counter services, filing system, understanding of legislative
governing the Public Service (Batho Pele & PSR), knowledge of Batho Pele
Principles, computer literacy (Microsoft Office). typing skills (speed 35 words
per minute) good communication skills (written and verbal). good interpersonal
relations, planning and organization skills. good problem-solving skills.
accuracy and attention to details. ability to work under pressure. good time
keeping. Telephone etiquette.
DUTIES : Type court orders, court documents and reports. Type appeals, reviews,
memorandums, reports, minutes, circulars, notice of set downs, witness
statements and taxing master reports. Type Rule 6(12) orders and make
available in terms of the rule. Type judgments. Sort and distribute incoming and
outgoing files. Make amendments on judgments as per judges’
request/instruction. Compile term roll, week roll and un/opposed motion roll and
maintain registers. Draft term rolls for each court term in line with the Gazetted
terms. Type supplementary rolls. Compile and submit relevant orders and
judgments to relevant stakeholders. Provide Advocates enrolment orders to the
Department of Justice and Constitutional Development. Send all judgments
provided to the typing unit, in the required format, to the elected person (for
reporting purposes on Saflii).
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries Ms DY Seswene Tel No: (013) 492 2213
HR enquiries: Mr SJ Zwane / Mr MV Maeko Tel No: (013) 758 0000
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/324/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 42/108 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: 2025/325/OCJ
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810 per annum (Level 03). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Mpumalanga Division of The High Court: Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : (ABET) (NQF level 2). Matric certificate or equivalent qualifications will serve
as an added advantage. Experience in a hospitality environment will serve as
an added advantage. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of relevant legislation
Good Interpersonal skills, Good Communication skills (verbal and written),
Planning and organizing skills, Problem solving and analysis, Time
management, Client Orientation and Customer focus, Decision making skills,
Listening skills.
DUTIES : Effective cleaning services. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Provide
catering support services. Keep stock of kitchen utensils and equipment. Apply
hygiene and safety measures. Maintain quality control measures of all food
provided. Remove garbage disposal. Render household duties. Prepare food,
snacks and beverages (water, tea, coffee, milk, sugar and cold drinks). Set up
78
and convey crockery, cutlery and equipment to dining areas. Serve food,
beverages and wash dishes. Control food supplies and report waste and
losses. Perform client satisfaction surveys and plate waste duties in line with
the SOP for food services. Ensure serviceability of equipment and report any
defects or shortage. Set tables including decoration. Ensure only authorized
personnel have access to the kitchen and consume meals. Apply safety
measures in the work environment. Adhere to elementary control measures
and standard operating procedures. Remove all kitchen waste. Wash the
freezer to ensure clean packing of food. Pack supplies received in the food
storage areas.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries Ms E Smith Tel No: (013) 758 0000
HR enquiries: Mr SJ Zwane / Mr MV Maeko Tel No: (013) 758 0000
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/325/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 42/109 : SECURITY OFFICER (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810 per annum (Level 03). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE Mpumalanga Division of The High Court: Mbombela Ref No: 2025/326/OCJ
Mpumalanga Division of The High Court: Middleburg Ref No: 2025/327/OCJ
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (Abet level 2). Relevant experience required. Grade 12 Certificate
will be an added advantage/a driver’s license will be an added advantage.
Basic Security Officer’s course registered with PSIRA. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's
technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of
Access to Public Premises and Vehicle Act and other security related
legislations. Knowledge of access control procedures. Knowledge of control
and movement of equipment and stores. Knowledge of prescribed security
procedures (e.g. MIS, NISA, Protection of Information Act, etc.) and the
authority of security officers under these documents. Knowledge on the
relevant emergency procedures. Batho Pele Principles. Interpersonal skills.
Client service skills. Listening skills. Problem solving skills. Decision making
skills. Good communication skills. Computer skills. Facilitating skills.
DUTIES : Perform access control functions. Determine whether visitors have
appointments/or the service that visitor requires. Contact the relevant
employees to confirm the appointment or refer the visitor to the relevant service
delivery point. Ensure that the admission control register is completed and
issue admission control documents/ cards as required. Utilise walk-through
metal detector for the effectiveness of access control. Ensure that unauthorised
persons and dangerous object do not enter the building/premises. Report all
the identified security breaches and non-compliance to the Supervisor. Ensure
that equipment, document and store do not leave or enter the building or
premises unauthorised. Ensure that the registers control the movement of
equipment, stores and documents are completed. Ensure that no equipment,
stores as assets of the department leave the building /premises unauthorised.
Inspect vehicles entering and leaving the premises. Gather information and
report on missing and stolen equipment and stores. Handle documents at
points of entry according to classification and the prescripts. Operate control
room security equipment’s. Monitor all movements, events, and activities within
the department's premises using CCTV equipment’s. Ensure that security
system is in good working condition. Report all incidents monitored, report to
the supervisor. Monitor all access points for effective access control. Report all
identified non-compliance to security policy and procedures to improve office
security. Ensure safety in the building and premises. Undertake building/ and
the primes patrols to identify and check. Apply emergency procedures (in
situations like bomb scares, riots etc.) and alert emergency services and
department management. Monitor and respond to alarm system. Ensure all
incidents are recorded in the occurrence books/registers. Ensure that recorded
information is correct. Update the information on the occurrence book/register
as and when required. Liaise with supervisor to verify information recorded.
perform any other duties assigned to you by the supervisor/ Court Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries Ms E Smith Tel No: (013) 758 0000
HR enquiries: Mr SJ Zwane / Mr MV Maeko Tel No: (013) 758 0000
79
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: Mpumalanga Division of The High Court:
Mbombela Ref No: 2025/326/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Mpumalanga Division of The High Court: Middleburg, Ref No:
2025/327/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals
POST 42/110 : HANDYMAN (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810 per annum (Level 03). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Mpumalanga Division of The High Court: Mbombela Ref No: 2025/328/OCJ
Mpumalanga Division of The High Court: Middelburg Ref No: 2025/329/OCJ
REQUIREMENTS : ABET or (Grade 10), a relevant experience required, must at least be
semiskilled with other trades of plumbing, electrical, bricklaying and carpentry
or mechanical, willing to do all other trades, be keen to learn and must be
physical healthy. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Occupational Health
and safety act. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge on how to operate power
tools, Knowledge of the MS Office package, with experience in word
processing, Outlook, Power Point and Excel Knowledge of Office
Administration, Knowledge of building infrastructures layouts, Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing Public Service,
Knowledge of Batho Pele principles, Communication skills (verbal & written),
Problem solving skills, Good public relations skills, Monitoring and analytical
skills, Computer Literacy skills (MS Teams), Planning and organizing skills,
Report writing skills, Typing skills, Customer services orientation, Self-
management, Self-motivated, Creative thinking, Teamwork, Ambitious, Time
bound, Assertive and Flexible.
DUTIES : Provide handyman services at the court: Relocate office equipment as and
when required, Coordinate removal of damaged office disposal and
repair/replace broken furniture, Safety awareness with use of all equipment on
all tasks. Fitting of globes and fixing of plugs, unblocking of toilets, basins and
drains, Fit and fix doors and locks, ensure that all work done complies with the
Occupational Health and Safety Act and that all departmental standards and
specifications are observed, Oversee the quality of office equipment delivered.
Execute minor general building maintenance: Report breakages to the
supervisor for repairs by the landlord, Repair damaged office equipment,
Attend to minor repairs, Sign job cards for services rendered by service
providers, Oversee building maintenance rendered by service providers,
Attend to minor plumbing, electrical and carpentry work, Unblock kitchen,
restrooms basins and minor drainage sewage, Facilitate repairs to water leaks,
Repair/replace broken furniture, Repair office furniture and equipment, Ensure
that electrical systems are working safe, Conduct routine inspection of the
building on a weekly, monthly and quarterly basis, Accompany landlord and
contractors during repairs/maintenance, Record inspection done on
infrastructure and Keep all records of all maintenance done at the Court
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries Ms DY Seswene Tel No: (013) 492 2213
HR enquiries: Mr SJ Zwane / Mr MV Maeko Tel No: (013) 758 0000
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: Mpumalanga Division of The High Court:
Mbombela Ref No: 2025/328/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Mpumalanga Division of The High Court: Middelburg Ref No:
2025/329/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 42/111 : HANDYMAN REF NO: 2025/330/OCJ
(03 Year Fixed Term Contract)
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810 per annum (Level 03). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Northern Cape Division of The High Court: Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : ABET or (Grade 10), a relevant experience required, must at least be
semiskilled with other trades of plumbing, electrical, bricklaying and carpentry
or mechanical, must be willing to do all other trades, be keen to learn and must
be physical healthy. A trade certificate in plumbing, electrical, bricklaying,
carpentry or mechanical will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge and
Skills: Knowledge of Occupational Health and safety act. Skills and
80
Competencies: Knowledge on how to operate power tools, Knowledge of the
MS Office package, with experience in word processing, Outlook, Power Point
and Excel Knowledge of Office Administration, Knowledge of building
infrastructures layouts, Knowledge and understanding of the legislative
framework governing Public Service, Knowledge of Batho Pele principles,
Communication skills (verbal & written), Problem solving skills, Good public
relations skills, Monitoring and analytical skills, Computer Literacy skills (MS
Teams), Planning and organizing skills, Report writing skills, Typing skills,
Customer services orientation, Self-management, Self-motivated, Creative
thinking, Teamwork, Ambitious, Time bound, Assertive and Flexible.
DUTIES : Provide handyman services at the court: Relocate office equipment as and
when required, Coordinate removal of damaged office disposal and
repair/replace broken furniture, Safety awareness with use of all equipment on
all tasks. Fitting of globes and fixing of plugs, unblocking of toilets, basins and
drains, Fit and fix doors and locks, ensure that all work done complies with the
Occupational Health and Safety Act and that all departmental standards and
specifications are observed, Oversee the quality of office equipment delivered.
Execute minor general building maintenance: Report breakages to the
supervisor for repairs by the landlord, Repair damaged office equipment,
Attend to minor repairs, Sign job cards for services rendered by service
providers, Oversee building maintenance rendered by service providers,
Attend to minor plumbing, electrical and carpentry work, Unblock kitchen,
restrooms basins and minor drainage sewage, Facilitate repairs to water leaks,
Repair/replace broken furniture, Repair office furniture and equipment, Ensure
that electrical systems are working safe, Conduct routine inspection of the
building on a weekly, monthly and quarterly basis, Accompany landlord and
contractors during repairs/maintenance, Record inspection done on
infrastructure and Keep all records of all maintenance done at the Court
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr F Wilkinson Tel No: (053) 492 3553
Hr Related Enquiries: Ms RP Netshivhale Tel No: (053) 493 3535
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/330/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 42/112 : HANDYMAN REF NO: 2025/331/OCJ
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810 per annum (Level 03). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : North West Division of The High Court: Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : ABET or (Grade 10), a relevant experience required, must at least be
semiskilled with other trades of plumbing, electrical, bricklaying and carpentry
or mechanical, must be willing to do all other trades, be keen to learn and must
be physical healthy. A trade certificate in plumbing, electrical, bricklaying,
carpentry or mechanical will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge and
Skills: Knowledge of Occupational Health and safety act. Skills and
Competencies: Knowledge on how to operate power tools, Knowledge of the
MS Office package, with experience in word processing, Outlook, Power Point
and Excel Knowledge of Office Administration, Knowledge of building
infrastructures layouts, Knowledge and understanding of the legislative
framework governing Public Service, Knowledge of Batho Pele principles,
Communication skills (verbal & written), Problem solving skills, Good public
relations skills, Monitoring and analytical skills, Computer Literacy skills (MS
Teams), Planning and organizing skills, Report writing skills, Typing skills,
Customer services orientation, Self-management, Self-motivated, Creative
thinking, Teamwork, Ambitious, Time bound, Assertive and Flexible.
DUTIES : Provide handyman services at the court: Relocate office equipment as and
when required, Coordinate removal of damaged office disposal and
repair/replace broken furniture, Safety awareness with use of all equipment on
all tasks. Fitting of globes and fixing of plugs, unblocking of toilets, basins and
drains, Fit and fix doors and locks, ensure that all work done complies with the
Occupational Health and Safety Act and that all departmental standards and
specifications are observed, Oversee the quality of office equipment delivered.
Execute minor general building maintenance: Report breakages to the
supervisor for repairs by the landlord, Repair damaged office equipment,
Attend to minor repairs, Sign job cards for services rendered by service
providers, Oversee building maintenance rendered by service providers,
Attend to minor plumbing, electrical and carpentry work, Unblock kitchen,
81
restrooms basins and minor drainage sewage, Facilitate repairs to water leaks,
Repair/replace broken furniture, Repair office furniture and equipment, Ensure
that electrical systems are working safe, Conduct routine inspection of the
building on a weekly, monthly and quarterly basis, Accompany landlord and
contractors during repairs/maintenance, Record inspection done on
infrastructure and Keep all records of all maintenance done at the Court
ENQUIRIES : Technical Enquiries: Ms. L Makula Tel No: (018) 397 7000/ 7064
HR Related Enquiries: Ms. KE Zwane Tel No: (018) 397 7114/ 7064
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/331/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 42/113 : HANDYMAN REF NO: 2025/332/OCJ
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810 per annum (Level 03). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : ABET or (Grade 10), a relevant experience required, must at least be
semiskilled with other trades of plumbing, electrical, bricklaying and carpentry
or mechanical, must be willing to do all other trades, be keen to learn and must
be physical healthy. A trade certificate in plumbing, electrical, bricklaying,
carpentry or mechanical will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge and
Skills: Knowledge of Occupational Health and safety act. Skills and
Competencies: Knowledge on how to operate power tools, Knowledge of the
MS Office package, with experience in word processing, Outlook, Power Point
and Excel Knowledge of Office Administration, Knowledge of building
infrastructures layouts, Knowledge and understanding of the legislative
framework governing Public Service, Knowledge of Batho Pele principles,
Communication skills (verbal & written), Problem solving skills, Good public
relations skills, Monitoring and analytical skills, Computer Literacy skills (MS
Teams), Planning and organizing skills, Report writing skills, Typing skills,
Customer services orientation, Self-management, Self-motivated, Creative
thinking, Teamwork, Ambitious, Time bound, Assertive and Flexible.
DUTIES : Provide handyman services at the court: Relocate office equipment as and
when required, Coordinate removal of damaged office disposal and
repair/replace broken furniture, Safety awareness with use of all equipment on
all tasks. Fitting of globes and fixing of plugs, unblocking of toilets, basins and
drains, Fit and fix doors and locks, ensure that all work done complies with the
Occupational Health and Safety Act and that all departmental standards and
specifications are observed, Oversee the quality of office equipment delivered.
Execute minor general building maintenance: Report breakages to the
supervisor for repairs by the landlord, Repair damaged office equipment,
Attend to minor repairs, Sign job cards for services rendered by service
providers, Oversee building maintenance rendered by service providers,
Attend to minor plumbing, electrical and carpentry work, Unblock kitchen,
restrooms basins and minor drainage sewage, Facilitate repairs to water leaks,
Repair/replace broken furniture, Repair office furniture and equipment, Ensure
that electrical systems are working safe, Conduct routine inspection of the
building on a weekly, monthly and quarterly basis, Accompany landlord and
contractors during repairs/maintenance, Record inspection done on
infrastructure and Keep all records of all maintenance done at the Court
ENQUIRIES : Technical Enquiries: Ms. PN Shandu Tel No: (012) 315 7602
HR Related Enquiries: Ms. T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/332/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
82
ANNEXURE K
OFFICE OF THE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
The Office of the Public Service Commission (OPSC) is an equal opportunity representative employer.
Therefore, the OPSC is intentional in promoting representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Public
Service through filling these positions in line with the approved Employment Equity Plan. All candidates
whose appointment/transfer/promotion will promote representativeness are encouraged to apply.
Preference will be given to Coloureds, Indians, Whites and persons with disabilities. An indication of
representativeness profile by applicants will expedite the processing of applications.
APPLICATIONS : You can apply on www.psc.gov.za under “vacancies”. Forward your
application/s stating the relevant reference number to: The Director-General,
Office of the Public Service Commission, Private Bag X121, Pretoria, 0001 or
hand-deliver at Commission House, Office Park Block B, 536 Francis Baard
Street, Arcadia, Pretoria.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr M Mabuza
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025; 16h30
NOTE : Applications must consist of: a) A fully completed and signed Z83 application
form which came into effect on 1 January 2021 and can be downloaded at
www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies). b) A recent comprehensive CV with a minimum
of three (3) contactable referees with their telephone numbers and email
addresses. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to bring certified copies
of ID, drivers’ license and qualifications on or before the interviews. Should you
be in possession of a foreign qualification(s), it must be accompanied by an
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA).
The successful candidate will be required to obtain a top-secret clearance
issued by the State Security Agency. The OPSC will verify the qualifications
and conduct reference checking on short-listed candidates. Candidates will be
subjected to Practical and Integrity Assessments to determine their suitability
for the post. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If
you have not been contacted within 3 months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Please
take note that late applications will not be accepted. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS post will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test the
relevant technical elements of the job, logistics of which will be communicated
by the Office of the Public Service Commission. Following the interview and
technical exercise, the Selection Committee will recommend a candidate/s to
attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the
DPSA Directives on the competency-based assessments). The competency
will be testing generic managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA
SMS competency assessment tools. Note (A pre-entry certificate obtained from
the National School of Government (NSG) prior appointment for all SMS
appointments is required). Applicants are advised against the use of the old
Z83 application form which was valid until 31 December 2020 because it will
render such application/s invalid.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 42/114 : DIRECTOR: EARLY RESOLUTION REF NO: D/ER/11/2025
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, all-inclusive remuneration package. The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), State’s contribution to the
Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible
portion of 30% that may be structured in terms of applicable rules. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance agreement
within three months after assumption of duty.
CENTRE : Public Service Commission House, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate’s profile: The successful candidate must have an appropriate
recognized Bachelor’s degree/ Advance Diploma (NQF level 7) in the field of
Law/ Auditing/ Investigations/ Public Administration or equivalent. A
Postgraduate or Honours Degree (NQF level 8) will be an added advantage.
Five (5) years of experience at a middle/ senior managerial level. Experience
in the investigative field/ anti-corruption field / fraud field/ law enforcement field/
ethics field. Knowledge of the Public Service legislation, National Anti-
Corruption Strategy and Promotion of Professional Ethics. A Nyukela certificate
for entry into the Senior Management Services (SMS) obtained from the
National School of Government (NSG) and should be submitted prior to
83
appointment. Knowledge of public administration. Understanding of
government programmes and priorities. Analytical skills, Research skills,
project management skills, communication skills, time management skills.
Strategic understanding and knowledge of the application of the Constitutional
Values and Principles (CVPs) as contained in Section 195. Supervisory and
appropriate people management experience. Stakeholder engagement skills.
Knowledge of Microsoft Office Suite. Be willing to work abnormal hours. A Valid
Driver’s License. (with exception of disabled applicants).
DUTIES : Manage, lead and provide effective leadership and support in the area of
investigation services and rapid response interventions to service delivery
blockages. Conduct investigations and compile reports for the Commission.
Monitor and report on the implementation of the PSC’s recommendations.
Provide strategic support to the office and the Commission.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Malatsi Tel No: (012) 352 1073
OTHER POSTS
POST 42/115 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RESEARCH REF NO: DD/R/LIM/11/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive remuneration package. The
package includes a basic salary (70%/75% of package), State’s contribution to
the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible
portion of 30%/25% that may be structured in terms of applicable rules. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance agreement
within three months after assumption of duty.
CENTRE : Public Service Commission Limpopo Provincial Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate’s profile: The successful candidate must have an appropriate
recognized Advance Diploma/ Bachelor’s degree NQF level 7 in the field of
Social Sciences/ Monitoring and Evaluation/ Public Administration /
Development Management. 3-4 years’ experience at an Assistant Director level
or equivalent level in Research, Monitoring and Evaluation, Development of
Public Administrative Practices, Data Management, Data Analysis, Project
Planning and Management. Experience in inspections will be an added
advantage. Knowledge of research practices, human resource practices,
corporate governance, financial management, public management and
administration. Knowledge of project planning. Ability to develop research and
monitoring tools. Knowledge of research methodologies and research
software. Report writing skills, presentation skills, analytical skills, project
management skills, people management skills, communication skills.
Proficiency in the Microsoft Office suite, e.g. Excel, Word and PowerPoint. Must
possess a valid driver’s license (with exception to people with disabilities) and
be willing to travel and work extensively both in a team and with minimal
supervision. An understanding of the Constitutional Values and Principles
(CVPs) in Section 195 and how these CVPs contribute towards effective public
service delivery. An understanding of how the post supports the role of the
Public Service Commission (PSC) regarding CVPs. Must have a valid driver’s
license. (with exception to people with disabilities) and willingness to travel
extensively.
DUTIES : Conduct service delivery inspections and research. Statistical reporting, data
collection and analysis. Conduct Citizens forum, outreaches, awareness and
stakeholder engagements. Promote Constitutional Values and Principles in the
Province. Conduct monitoring and evaluation of Departmental quarterly and
annual performance in compliance with Constitutional Values and Principles.
Provide support in conducting research on Leadership and Human Resource
Practices in the Public Service. Provide support to the Organisation through
participation in various committees of the Organisation. Evaluate the
performance of the Limpopo Provincial Public Service using indicators and
standards for each of the CVPs in Section 195 of the Constitution. Design and
develop research projects’ proposals and/or project plans. Conduct monitoring
and evaluation and research on Public Administration as per the mandate of
the PSC. Evaluate Public Administration practices in the Provincial
Departments and develop solutions to identified challenges. Conduct service
delivery investigations and inspections. Conduct Research in Human
Resource Management and Development Practices and develop solutions to
identified challenges. Draft reports emanating from the key performance areas,
including the report on Compliance of the Constitutional Values and Principles
(Section 196).
84
ENQUIRIES : Ms PN Malope Tel No: (015) 023 5900
POST 42/116 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: NATIONAL ANTI-CORRUPTION HOTLINE REF NO:
DD/NACH/11/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive remuneration package. The
package includes a basic salary (70%/75% of package), State’s contribution to
the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible
portion of 30%/25% that may be structured in terms of applicable rules. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance agreement
within three months after assumption of duty.
CENTRE : Public Service Commission House, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate’s profile: The successful candidate must have an appropriate
recognized Bachelor’s degree NQF level 7 majoring in Law/Public
Administration/Social Sciences or equivalent qualification. 3-4 years’
experience at an Assistant Director or equivalent level in anti-corruption and
investigations. Knowledge and skills. Understanding of Public Service
Regulatory Framework, Legislation, National Anti-Corruption Strategy,
Investigation, Prevention and combating of Corrupt Activities, Understanding
of government programmes and priorities, Knowledge of the Public
Administration practices and prescripts, Research experience and analytical
skills, Administrative and organisational skills, Project management skills,
Good communication skills, Good Interpersonal skills and ability to handle
pressure, Communication skills (verbal and Written) Excellent written,
communication skills and ability to produce documents and reports of high
quality, Ability to work both independently and as part of a team, Ability to
multitask and to function in a pressurized environment and Presentation skills.
Proficiency in the Microsoft Office suite, e.g. Excel, Word and PowerPoint. Must
possess a valid driver’s license (with exception to people with disabilities).
DUTIES : Management of the National Anti-Corruption Hotline (NACH), Referral and
assessment of feedback from departments and conduct surprise visits at
national and provincial departments, Research reports, policy formulation and
marketing of the NACH, and Investigation of cases of alleged corruption and
fraud reported to the NACH.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mabowa Tel No: (012) 352-1082
POST 42/117 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MANAGEMENT OF CONFLICT OF INTEREST REF
NO: DD/MCI/11/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive remuneration package. The
package includes a basic salary (70%/75% of package), State’s contribution to
the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible
portion of 30%/25% that may be structured in terms of applicable rules. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance agreement
within three months after assumption of duty.
CENTRE : Public Service Commission House, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate’s profile: The successful candidate must have an appropriate
recognised Advance Diploma/Bachelor’s degree (NQF level 7) in the field of
Public Administration/ Law (LLB)/ Anti-corruption/ Ethics or equivalent
qualification. 3-4 years’ experience at an Assistant Director or equivalent level
in investigation of management of conflict of interest/ public administration
conflict of interest/ implementation of the Financial Disclosure Framework and
Ethics Management within the public service, with demonstrable
understanding of the public service ethics environment. Understanding of
Public Service Regulatory Framework and related Prescripts and Legislation
with Ethics and National Anti-Corruption Strategy. Understanding of
government programmmes and priorities. Reporting skills, presentation skills,
research and analytical skills, project management skills, investigative skills,
communication skills, administrative and organisational skills. Proficiency in
the Microsoft Office suite, e.g. Excel, Word and PowerPoint. An understanding
of the Constitutional Values and Principles (CVPs) in Section 195 and how
these CVPs contribute towards effective public service delivery. An
understanding of how the post supports the role of the Public Service
Commission (PSC) regarding CVPs. Must have a valid driver’s license. Must
have a valid driver’s license. (with exception to people with disabilities)
DUTIES : Administration of and monitoring compliance with the Financial Disclosure
Framework within the public service. Assessment of compliance with the
85
Financial Disclosure Framework within the public service. Promote the
management of conflict of interest and good governance practices in the public
service. Manage the sub-directorate and provide support to the organisation.
ENQUIRIES : Adv. K Mgwenyana Tel No:(012) 352 1297
POST 42/118 : RECEPTIONIST REF NO: REC/NO/11/2025
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Public Service Commission House, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A recognized National Senior Certificate or National Higher Certificate (NQF
Level 4/5) no experience required. Ability to work with people and in a team.
Good communication skills, planning skills, time management, problem solving
and analysis. Knowledge of operating switchboard.
DUTIES : Provide front desk customer relations. Provide clients with relevant information
and advice. Ensure smooth running of the switchboard. Manage monthly
telephone accounts. Manage two servers, telephone manager and extensions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Tshatshelo Tel No: (012) 352 1056
86
ANNEXURE L
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be posted / or hand-delivered to: The Department of
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation (DPME), Attention: Human Resource
Admin & Recruitment, at Private Bag X944, Pretoria, 0028 or hand delivered
to 330 Grosvenor Street, Hatfield, Pretoria 0028 (please quote the relevant
post and reference number).
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025 @ 16:30
WEBSITE : www.dpme.gov.za
NOTE : The relevant reference number must be quoted on all applications. The
successful candidate will have to sign an annual performance agreement and
will be required to undergo a security clearance. Applications must be
submitted on a signed Z83 accompanied by a comprehensive CV only
specifying all experience indicating the respective dates (MM/YY) as well as
indicating three reference persons with the following information: name and
contact number(s), email address and an indication of the capacity in which the
reference is known to the candidate. Certified copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents will be requested from shortlisted candidates only.
Applicants will be required to meet vetting requirements as prescribed by
Minimum Information Security Standards. The DPME is an equal opportunity
affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be informed by the
Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the Department’s intention to
promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
Failure to submit the above information will result in the application not being
considered. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Reference
checks will be done during the selection process. Note that correspondence
will only be conducted with the short-listed candidates. If you have not been
contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Shortlisted candidates
must be available for interviews at a date and time determined by DPME.
Applicants must note that pre-employment checks will be conducted once they
are short-listed and the appointment is also subject to positive outcomes on
these checks, which include security clearance, security vetting, qualification
verification and criminal records. All shortlisted candidates will be required to
undergo a technical exercise that intends to test the relevant technical
elements of the job. For salary levels 11 to 15, the inclusive remuneration
package consists of a basic salary, the state’s contribution to the Government
Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules.
SMS will be required to undergo a Competency Assessment as prescribed by
DPSA. The DPME reserves the right to utilise practical exercises/tests for non-
SMS positions during the recruitment process (candidates who are shortlisted
will be informed accordingly) to determine the suitability of candidates for the
post(s). The DPME also reserves the right to cancel the filling / not to fill a
vacancy that was advertised during any stage of the recruitment process. Prior
to appointment, a candidate would be required to complete the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to Senior Management Services as
endorsed by DPSA which is an online course, endorsed by the National School
of Government (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into the SMS and the full details can be sourced by the
following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/. Candidates are required to use the new Z83 (Application for
employment) that is implemented with effect from 1 January 2021. A copy can
be downloaded on the website of the Department of Public Service &
Administration (DPSA) at www.dpsa.gov.za
87
OTHER POSTS
POST 42/119 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROCUREMENT REF NO: 12/2025
Sub-Directorate: Procurement Services
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive salary package.
The remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution
to the Government Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may
be structured according to personal needs within the relevant framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant Bachelor’s Degree/Advanced Diploma (NQF level 7) in Supply
Chain Management, Logistics or related fields with at least 6 years’ experience
in Supply Chain Management of which 3 years must be at Middle Management
(ASD) level. Competencies & Skills: Excellent financial skills, supervisory and
operational management skills. Problem solving skills. Good communication &
report writing skills. Computer literacy skills. Knowledge requirements: Working
knowledge of LOGIS and sound knowledge of Microsoft Office applications
(especially Microsoft Excel) are essential. In-depth knowledge of the legislative
environment applicable to government supply chain management and the
development, implementation and monitoring of related policies and
procedures. Personal Attributes: Must be client orientated and customer
focused, solution orientated and able to work under stressful situations. The
ability to maintain high level of confidentiality and to prioritize work in high-
pressure environment.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible to manage the Sub-Directorate,
Demand and Acquisition Management and Logistic Contract Administration in
support of providing procurement services to the Department. This entails
managing the functional operation of the sub-directorate: Demand and
Acquisition Management. Oversee the bidding process: Compilation of bid
documents and advertisement, Publishing of bid documents. Audit and Interim
Financial Statements: All audit findings responded to and action plans
implemented. Contract Management, Logistics and Warehouse Management:
Warehouse management. Payment of suppliers within 30 days of receipt of
invoice. Manage and supervise employees to ensure an effective acquisition
management service and undertake all administrative functions required with
regard to financial and HR administration: Maintenance of discipline and
Management of performance and development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Masilela Tel No: (012) 312-0471
APPLICATIONS : can also be emailed to Recruitment12@dpme.gov.za
POST 42/120 : PARLIAMENTARY AND CABINET SUPPORT OFFICER REF NO: 13/2025
Office of the Director-General
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree or equivalent qualification (NQF 6) in the areas of Public
Administration/ Office Management/ Administration/ Public Management or
related field with 5 years’ experience of which 3 years should be at supervisory/
management level (ASD). Competencies and skills: Should have good
communication skills (verbal and written) and high level of computer literacy.
Proven management competencies. Knowledge requirements: Knowledge of
Minister’s operations. Broad knowledge and understanding of the functional
areas covered by the Executive Authority’s portfolio. Working knowledge of the
political and parliamentary processes in South Africa. Personal attributes:
Ability to produce good quality of work, be reliable and take initiative, be flexible
and have the ability to work with the team. Should have management skills and
be able to control financial resources and supervise staff.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible to provide administrative support
to the Executive Authority on matters relating to Parliament/the legislature and
Cabinet/executive council. This entails monitoring events in Parliament/the
legislature to identify matters that have a bearing on the portfolio of the Minister.
Monitor events in Cabinet/Executive Council to identify matters that have a
bearing on the portfolio of the Minister. Render an efficient and effective
parliamentary service. Facilitate timeous and appropriate responses to the
parliamentary questions in the format prescribed by Parliament/the legislature
and ensure departmental representation in parliamentary events. Manage the
provision of secretariat to the Cabinet Cluster meetings Co-Chaired by the
88
Minister. Provide support to Clusters and ensure implementation of Cabinet
actions in relations to the department mandate. Co-ordinate and control
movements between the Pretoria and Cape Town offices for Parliamentary
sessions (where applicable). Study the relevant Public Service and
departmental prescripts/policies and other documents to ensure that the
application thereof is understood properly. Conduct quality control in the
department’s documents to parliament and compiling regular written reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Masilela Tel No: (012) 312 0471
APPLICATIONS : can also be emailed to Recruitment13@dpme.gov.za
POST 42/121 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: DEBT REF NO: 14/2025
Unit: Payables, Receivables and PMG
SALARY : R397 116 – R467 790 per annum (Level 08), plus benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma/ Degree (NQF 6/7) in Finance, Accounting or equivalent
with at least 3 years’ experience in financial management environment.
Competencies and skills: Must have good Interpersonal relations, planning and
execution skills and good leadership skills. Must have good verbal and written
communication skills. High level of computer literacy skills. Knowledge
requirements: Should have extensive knowledge and experience of BAS,
LOGIS and PERSAL. Knowledge of Microsoft Office suite. Ability to supervise
staff. Must have the ability to delegate and empower subordinates. Must have
the ability to interpret relevant Directives such as PFMA, Treasury Regulations
and other relevant legislation. Personal Attributes: Ability to accept
responsibility, work independently, and produce good quality of work. Must be
a team player, flexible and reliable.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing financial
administrative and operational services within the Department. This entails
administering Sundry Payments. Authorisation of BAS and LOGIS payments.
Administering Debt Management. Administering Ledger Accounts, Journals
and provide IFS/AFS inputs. Human Resource Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Masilela Tel No: (012) 312 0471
APPLICATIONS : can also be emailed to Recruitment14@dpme.gov.za
POST 42/122 : SENIOR SUPPLY CHAIN OFFICER: ASSETS, FLEET AND MOBILE
ACCOUNTS MANAGEMENT REF NO: 15/2025
Unit: Assets, Fleet and Mobile Accounts
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08), plus benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant 3-year tertiary qualification (NQF level 6) in Logistics/ Supply Chain
Management/ Procurement/ Finance/ Accounting with at least 3 years’
experience in SCM of which 2 years must be at supervisory level. Must have a
valid driver’s license (minimum code 8). Competencies and Skills: Must have
good verbal and written communication skills. Good Interpersonal relations
skills. Planning and Execution skills and good leadership skills. Knowledge
requirement: LOGIS, BAS and MS Packages. Knowledge of PFMA and
Treasury Regulations and Public Service Act and Regulations as well as
Supply Chain procedures and policies. Personal Attributes: Ability to
demonstrate sound knowledge of policies and practices. Ability to apply
technical/ professional knowledge. Ability to accept responsibility, work
independently, and produce good quality of work. Must be a team player and
be able to make sound recommendations and show trust to others. Ability to
supervise staff. Ability to delegate and empower subordinates.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible to provide effective and efficient
assets, fleet and mobile accounts management services to the Department.
This entails providing assets management services in the department.
Providing fleet management services in the department. Providing mobile
accounts management services for the department and supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Masilela Tel No: (012) 312-0471
APPLICATIONS : can also be emailed to Recruitment15@dpme.gov.za
89
ANNEXURE M
DEPARTMENT OF SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Small Business Development is an equal opportunity & affirmative action employer. It
is the DSBD’s intention to promote representativity (race, gender, youth & disability). The candidature of
persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by email to the relevant email and by quoting
the relevant reference number provided on the subject line. Acceptable formats
for submission of documents are limited to MS Word, PDF. Candidates must
submit applications to Recruitment4@dsbd.gov.za and quote the reference
number for the above-mentioned position on the subject line (email) when
applying, i.e., “REF NO: PA”
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025 at 16h00. Applications received after the closing date will
not be considered.
NOTE : Applications must quote the relevant reference number and consist of: A fully
completed and signed Z83 form and a recent comprehensive CV. Submission
of copies of qualifications, Identity document, and any other relevant
documents will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. All non-SA citizens will
be required to submit proof of permanent residence in South Africa when
shortlisted. Personnel suitability checks will be done during the selection
process. Applicants could be required to provide consent for access to their
social media accounts. All shortlisted candidates for SMS and/or MMS (MMS
optional) posts will be subjected to (1) a technical exercise, (2) a generic
managerial competency assessment. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within 1 month of
the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Department of Small Business Development is committed to the
pursuit of diversity and redress. Candidates whose appointment will promote
presentively in terms of race, disability, youth & gender will receive preference
(as per the DSBD EE Plan). The successful candidate will be required to sign
a performance agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as
completing a financial interest’s declaration form within one month of
appointment and annually thereafter. The Department reserves the rights not
to fill or withdraw any advertised post. Note: a new application for employment
(Z83) form is applicable from 01 January 2021. The new form can be
downloaded online at http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp.
OTHER POST
POST 42/123 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT “REF NO: PA”
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Secretarial Diploma or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA. 3-5
years’ administrative experience in office management, secretarial or
administration environment (experience in rendering support service to senior
management). A B Degree in Office Practice, Secretarial Studies or Business
Administration will be an added advantage. Knowledge on the relevant
legislation/policies/prescripts and procedures. Basic knowledge on financial
administration. Have proven competencies: Good telephone etiquette,
Computer literacy, Sound organising and people skills, High level of reliability,
Communication skills (oral and written), Ability to act with tact and discretion,
Good grooming and presentation and Self-management and motivation.
DUTIES : Provide a receptionist / secretarial service to the manager by means of
receiving, directing or re-directing calls, clarifying instructions or taking
messages. Make use of office equipment and ensure serviceability. Scrutinize
documents to determine actions required for meetings and provide a meeting
management service. Manage the diary and travel arrangements of the
manager in line with relevant directives. Provide administrative and document
management services to the Office. Manage the procurement of goods and
services within the prescribed legislative guidelines in the manager’s office.
Liaise with internal and external stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries for all advertised posts should be directed to the recruitment office
on Tel No: (012) 394-5286/3097
NOTE : The Department of Small Business Development is committed to the pursuit of
diversity and redress.
90
ANNEXURE N
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/ Other related documentation such as copies
of qualifications, identity document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany
the application when applying for a post as such documentation must only be
produced by shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA
circular 19 of 2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or
occupational registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be
completed as these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or
disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No
late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
pertaining to Senior Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical and competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained
from the National School of government is required prior to the appointment.
Candidates will be required to complete a financial disclosure form and
undergo security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must
provide a police clearance certificate from country of origin (only when
shortlisted). The Department of Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity
employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of
the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment
Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of the Department will be
taken into consideration. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within three (3) months of this
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful.
Faxed applications will not be considered. The department reserves the right
not to fill these positions. Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged
to apply and preference will be given to the EE Targets.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 42/124 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT REF NO:
281125/01
Branch: Corporate Support Services
CD: Human Resource Management
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An Undergraduate qualification in Human Resource Management or related
field at (NQF level 7) as recognized by SAQA. Five years of experience at
senior managerial level in a Human Resource environment; Extensive work
experience in a complete range of Human Resources functions and regulatory
framework. Understanding of strategic capability and leadership. Knowledge of
programme and project management. Understanding finance, change and
knowledge management. Planning and organizing skills. Service delivery and
innovation. Problem solving and analysis. People and diversity management.
Client orientation and customer focus. Excellent communication skills both
(verbal and written). Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Lead the management of the provision of human resource administration
services. Oversee the accurate and timely management of HR records payroll
administration, benefits management and compliance with labour regulations.
Oversee the planning and recruitment of human resources. Lead the
development and execution of workforce planning strategies to ensure the
organization attracts, develops, and retains top talent. Lead the provision of
employee health and wellness programmes. Monitor the effectiveness of
wellness programmes and make recommendations for continuous
improvement. Oversee the rendering of employee relations services. Lead the
resolution of employee conflicts, grievances, and disciplinary issues in
accordance with organizational policies and legal requirements. Lead the
91
management of human resource development and professional capacity.
Oversee the identification of skill gaps and the creation of targeted
development plans to build the workforce’s professional capacity. Oversee the
management of the Learning Academy functions in the Department. Promote
and implement the framework on professionalization in the public sector.
Management of human and financial resources in the chief directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Fundakubi Tel No: (012) 336 8197
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
OTHER POSTS
POST 42/125 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SCM ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT REF NO:
281125/02
Branch: Finance: Main Account
Dir: Supply Chain and Asset Management
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant qualification at NQF 7 in Supply Chain Management / Purchasing
Management / Logistics. Management / Public Management. Three (3) years
related Supply Chain (Acquisition Management) experience at
supervisory/management level (ASD). Knowledge and understanding on huma
resource management legislation, policies, practices and procedures.
Understanding of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA), Broad-Based Black Economic
Empowerment (BBBEE), Public Procurement Act 28 of 2024, State Information
Technology Agency (SITA) Act 88 of 1998 as amended by SITA Amendment
Act 38 of 2002 & its regulations and Treasury Regulations and guidelines.
Understanding Public Service anticorruption strategy and anti-corruption and
fraud prevention measures. Knowledge of equal opportunities and affirmative
action guidelines and laws. Knowledge of administrative and clerical
procedures and systems. Knowledge and understanding of departmental
policies and procedures. Understanding of government financial systems.
Principles and practices of financial accounting. Framework for managing
performance information. Business strategy transaction and alignment.
Problem solving and analysis. People and diversity management. Client
orientation and customer focus. Good communication skills both (verbal and
written). Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Lead and manage the operations of the Sub-Directorate: Supply Chain
Management (Acquisition Management), ensuring alignment with
departmental objectives and legislative requirements. Develop, implement,
and maintain acquisition management policies, processes, and procedures to
enhance operational efficiency and compliance. Oversee the procurement of
goods and services through quotation processes, ensuring adherence to
prescribed thresholds and guidelines set by the National Treasury. Manage the
sourcing, evaluation and award of quotations in accordance with applicable
regulatory frameworks. Oversee the acquisition of goods and services through
competitive bidding processes, ensuring transparency, fairness, and value for
money. Ensure the accurate compilation and timely publication of bid
documents. Oversee the administration of bid processes, including the
provision of secretariat support to Bid Committees (Evaluation and
Adjudication). Coordinate and produce monthly, quarterly, and annual
acquisition management reports to support strategic decision-making. Manage
and supervise staff within the sub-directorate to ensure the delivery of effective
acquisition management services. Perform administrative functions related to
financial and human resource management within the unit. Management of
performance and development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Khubana Tel No: (012) 336 6681
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
92
POST 42/126 : QUANTITY SURVEYOR PRODUCTION GRADE A - C REF NO: 281125/03
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Head Office
Dir: Technical Engineering Support Services
SD: Quantity Surveying and Contract Management
SALARY : R761 157 – R1 144 008 per annum, (OSD), (Offer will be based on proven
years of experience)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree in Quantity Surveying or relevant qualification. Three (3) years post
qualification Quantity Survey experience. Compulsory registration with the
South African Council for the Quantity Surveying Profession (SACQSP) as a
Professional Quantity Surveyor. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s
license. Experience in Quantity Surveying principles and methodologies.
Understanding of programme and project management. Knowledge in
research and development. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report
writing, and technical consulting. Creating high performance culture and
networking. Professional judgement and responsiveness. Good
communication skills both (verbal and written). Planning and organizing.
Conflict management, people management, change management and
innovation. Problem solving and analysis. Familiarity with a wide range of
quantity surveying measurement principles and specifications.
DUTIES : Reports to the Chief Quantity Surveyor. Provide support to all engineers,
contract managers and site agents. Pricing of new construction works
development of bills of quantities and estimates and valuation and submission
of payment certificates. Calculation of unit rates for record keeping, creating a
data base for all construction costs and activities. Co-ordinate professional
teams on all aspects regarding quantity surveying and cost reporting. Ensure
adherence to quantity determination standards. Provide quantity surveying
advice and technical support in the evaluation of costs. Ensure the adoption of
technical and quality strategies. Develop quantity surveying related policies,
methods and practices. Provide solutions on non-compliance on quantity
determination. Review the cost determinations of projects and estimates
accomplished by engineering designers and/or sub-professional personnel;
and ensure adherence to the requirements of professional registration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Smit Tel No: (012) 336 8098
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 42/127 : RISK OFFICER (ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT) REF NO: LOCMA 05
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Polokwane (Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency)
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in Risk Management/Auditing/Economics at
NQF7. Registration as a Certified Risk Management practitioner/professional,
Certified Internal Auditor, Certified Fraud Examiner. A minimum of 4 years’
experience obtained in Risk Management practices at a middle managerial
level. Knowledge and experience of risk mitigation processes, knowledge of
the broader risks management guidelines and standards. Knowledge and
understanding on Human Resource Management Legislation, policies,
practices and procedures, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury
Regulations and guidelines, Public Service Anti-corruption Strategy and anti-
corruption and fraud prevention measures, Knowledge of equal opportunities
and Affirmative action guidelines and laws, Knowledge of administrative and
clerical procedures and systems, Principles and practice of financial
accounting, Framework for managing performance information, business
strategy transaction and alignment, Problem solving and Analysis, People and
Diversity Management, Client Orientation and Customer Focus,
Communication, Accountability and Ethical Conduct.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)
framework: Participate in the development of the risk management framework,
implement the risk management plan, support the establishment of the risk
management philosophy and culture in the organization, advocate and
promote risk management in the agency (awareness activities). Supervise,
facilitate and advise on the risk management assessment process: facilitate
Enterprise-Wide Risk Assessments, conduct risk identification, analysis and
evaluation with strategic partners within the Vaal-Orange Catchment
Management Agency. Initiate the updating of LOCMA’s risk register for
93
conformity of objectives to improve effectiveness of the entity. Engage
stakeholders within business units with the sole purpose of extracting
information to integrate within the draft risk reports as per identified risks for
mitigation. Develop proposals to determine the scope of allocated internal
audits. Monitor and review the identified risk response activities: continuous
monitoring of the risk environment. Monitoring the implementation of the
progress of activities to address risks as agreed on revising risk response
activities. Conduct Risk Education, Training and benchmarks; Initiate
awareness sessions on risks and provide training to educate internal clients on
ERM principles. Conduct workshops on risks mitigation processes for
implementation within LOCMA. Conduct research and benchmark on best
practices with recognised institutions pertaining to risk assessment
methodologies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Fanisa Lamola at 083 273 2494
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : The Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 42/128 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COMPLIANCE AND OVERSIGHT REF NO:
281125/04
Branch: Water & Sanitation Services Management KwaZulu-Natal
CD: Provincial Operations KZN
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant NQF 7 qualification in Auditing/Financial Management. Five (5) years
experience in Auditing. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license.
Ability to think strategically. Excellent communication skills. A sound
understanding of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) principles and
philosophy. Sound understanding of Auditing principles and philosophy.
Excellent facilitation skills. Able to organise and motivate others, who in many
cases may be in senior position. Extensive knowledge of computerized,
financial and business systems. Sound understanding of PFMA, Treasury
Regulations and Corporate Governance issues. Sound understanding of the
framework for strategic plan and annual performance plan. Computer literacy
in Microsoft Office suite. Leadership skills. Sound understanding of
investigation skills. Sound understanding of Anticorruption strategy and fraud
prevention measures. Leadership, project management, strategic support,
capability, programme and project management skills. Financial management
and change management. Service delivery innovation (SDI).
DUTIES : Perform enterprise risk management. Perform regular inspections. Perform
preliminary investigations. Co-ordination of internal and external audits on both
Main and Trading account. People Management. Assess the control
environment, risk management and governance processes of the department.
Plan the audit projects. Develop adequate audit programmes. Document all
findings on the standard audit working papers. Compile audit reports. Perform
follow-up reviews to ensure that agreed action plans have been implemented.
Identify risk and suggest corrective measures. Monitor expenditure against
budget allocation. Maintain updated signature specimens of authorised
signatories. Build relationships with external auditors and other assurance
providers. Special investigations, Inspection and audit coordination.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Mkhungo at 082 874 4438
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 42/129 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LAND MATTERS REF NO: 281125/05 (X4 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Head Office
Dir: Land Rights Administration
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
94
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF 6 qualification (National Diploma), a course in Real Estate will
serve as an added advantage. Five (5) years appropriate experience in land
related matters. Knowledge understanding Expropriation Act, National Water
Act, Water Services Act, Promotion of Administrative Justice Act, Constitution
of South Africa, Public Services Act, Public Administration and relevant acts in
relation to the land related matters. Problem solving and analysis.
Accountability and ethical conduct. Good communication skills both (verbal and
written).
DUTIES : Facilitate the Development of land acquisition practices. Develop and review
methodologies within the unit. Participation in policy development and review
processes. Coordination of administration of land use matters. Compile and
submit accurate monthly and quarterly reports within prescribed timeframes.
Prepare submissions and reports on land administration matters, ensuring
compliance with all relevant legislation, policies, and departmental
requirements. Supervise and guide staff in interpreting and applying land-
related legislation, policies, and departmental guidelines. Provide
administrative support in relation to applications wayleave, servitudes, the
leasing of land and solar and hydro applications under the land delegated
authority. Verify and ensure that all land parcels have been vested under DWS.
Monitor and report illegal occupation or misuse of State land within government
waterworks and conduct site visits as required. Administer applications from
interested parties for new developments on State land and oversee
administrative functions for existing (old scheme) properties. Attends meetings
related to land matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mangotlo Tel No: (012) 336 8949
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 42/130 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SCM ACQUISITION (QUOTATION
MANAGEMENT) REF NO: 281125/06
Branch: Finance: Main Account
CD: Dir: Supply Chain and Asset Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant qualification at NQF 7 in Supply Chain Management, Purchasing
Management, Logistics Management, Public Management. Three (3) years
related Acquisition Management experience at supervisory level in Acquisition
Management. Knowledge and understanding of Supply Chain Management
Treasury Prescripts, practices, and procedures, Public Finance Management
Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations and guidelines. Knowledge of Broad Based
Black Economic Empowerment Act 53 of 2003. Knowledge of CSD
procurement systems. Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Allocate duties and perform quality control and compliance on the work
delivered by supervisees. Advise and lead supervisees with regard to all
aspects of the work. Assist with sourcing and evaluation of quotations as and
when a need arises. Produce weekly and monthly reports on the status of all
procurement projects. Assist in the consolidation of the Departmental
Transformation report. Ensure compliance with quotation thresholds as per the
SCM Policy. General Supervision and Management of officials.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Kgwadi Tel No: (012) 336 7120
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 42/131 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: (MR5) (OFFICE OF THE BOARD
SECRETARY) REF NO: LOCMA 06
SALARY : R464 634 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Polokwane (Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency)
REQUIREMENTS : LLB (or equivalent qualification). At least eight (8) years appropriate post
qualification legal experience. Competencies required: Knowledge and
experience of policy development and implementation, public sector legal
processes, legislation and contracts, PAIA, PAJA, the Constitution and all the
relevant legislation. Knowledge of Treasury regulations. Ability to negotiate and
draft contracts and international instruments. Ability to interpret specific
environmental legislation, issues affecting the environment and general
environmental law is required. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act.
95
Legal research and interpretation. Analytical skills. Report-writing. Programme
and project management. Computer literacy. Good planning and decision-
making skills. Language proficiency. Confidentially. Excellent communication
skills (written and verbal). Strategic capability and leadership skills.
Accountability and Ethical Conduct.
DUTIES : Provide legal support to ensure compliance with relevant legislation. Develop
standard operating procedures. Advise on and draft legal opinions and
documents to support criminal prosecutions for contraventions of the National
Water Act. Draft legal documents, memoranda, reports and submissions. Draft,
vet and review contracts on behalf of the entity. Advise, negotiate and draft
multilateral and bilateral agreements. Handle litigation matters and appeals on
behalf of the CMA. Render legal support on all litigation matters. Develop
interventions where challenges are experienced. Monitor the implementation
of the Promotion of Access to Information Act, 2000 and the Promotion of
Administrative Justice Act, 2000 in the CMA. Handle PAIA and PAJA matters
on behalf of the CMA.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Fanisa Lamola at 083 273 2494
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : The Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 42/132 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN PRODUCTION GRADE A - C REF NO:
281125/07
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
Div: Civil Engineering
SALARY : R391 671 – R586 665 per annum, (OSD), (offer will be based on proven years
of experience)
CENTRE : Free State (Bloemhof Dam)
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Civil Engineering. Three (3) years post qualification
Technical Engineering experience. Compulsory registration with the
Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineering
Technician. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Significant dam
engineering experience related to design, construction, management,
operation, maintenance, and safety of dams with a safety risk will serve as an
added advantage. Knowledge of programme and project management.
Knowledge of technical design and analyses of dams and canals. Knowledge
of the water sector and relevant legislation (including but not limited to the
Chapter 4 and Chapter 12 of National Water Act (NWA, Act No. 36 of 1998)
and the Dam Safety Regulations published in Government Notice R. 139 of 24
February 2012). Understanding research and development. Knowledge of
computer-aided engineering applications including relevant computer
software. Technical report writing. Problem solving and analysis, decision
making, team leadership, creativity, self-management, customer focus and
responsiveness. Sound interpersonal and leadership skills. Strong verbal and
written communication skills. Planning, organizing and people management.
Willingness to travel throughout South Africa for the execution of some duties.
DUTIES : Render technical services and support. Provide input in engineering drawings,
research, design, manufacturing, operations and maintenance to the area
offices and scheme offices. Assist control engineering Technicians and
associates in the field, workshop and technical office activities and appraisals
for technical reports, Business and Demand Plans. Monitor the implementation
of Government Water Resource Schemes projects through conducting site
inspections, site meetings, compilation, and submission of progress reports.
Development of Condition Assessment and Civil Maintenance Inspections.
Address breakdowns and perform fault findings. Optimize the life cycle of
equipment. Initiate maintenance / refurbishment projects. Technical support for
Dam Safety Rehabilitation Projects. Promote safety in line with statutory and
regulatory requirements. Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard
drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology. Evaluate technical
96
designs and engineering drawings with specifications complete with bill of
quantities and submit for approval by the relevant authority. Perform
administrative and related functions. Provide input into the budgeting process
as required. Compile and submit monthly and quarterly expenditure reports as
required. Evaluation of quotations and proposals together with verifying and
certifying invoices for payment from contractors and Public Service Providers.
Execute cost analysis and feasibility studies for new and refurbished
equipment. Maintain proper records and documentation for all projects to
enable a clean audit. Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical /
engineering operational plan. Develop, implement, and maintain databases.
Supervise technical personnel and control strategic infrastructure.
ENQUIRIES : Mr HS van der Westhuizen Tel No: (051) 405 9000
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
POST 42/133 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN PRODUCTION GRADE A-C (CIVIL
ENGINEERING) REF NO: 281125/08
Branch: Water and Sanitation Services Management Gauteng
CD: Provincial Operations: Gauteng
SD: Hydrological Services
(Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied must re-apply)
SALARY : R391 671 – R586 665 per annum, (OSD), (Offer will be based on proven years
of experience)
CENTRE : Boskop Area Office
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Civil Engineering. Three (3) years post qualification
technical Civil Engineering experience. Compulsory registration with the
Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineering
Technician. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Good computer
literacy and computer programming skills. Good communication skills (verbal
and written) and negotiation skills. Experience in project management.
Technical design of gauging weirs and analysing knowledge of hydrological
data. Knowledge and experience in Computer-aided engineering applications.
Technical report writing and technical consulting skills. Problem solving,
analysis, decision making and teamwork skills. Creativity, financial
management, customer focus and responsiveness skills. Good planning,
organising and people management. Travel extensively as and when required.
Must be prepared to work away from the office for extended periods of time.
DUTIES : Stream Gauging using ADP and conventional stream gauging methods. Survey
of gauging weirs and flood (rated) sections using the levelling instrument.
Preparation of drawings using CAD software. Calibration of flow gauging
stations. Inspection planning of maintenance surface water gauging stations
within the area of responsibility. Maintenance of electronic data logging
instruments. Supervision of personnel. Hydrological Data editing and
processing. Management of hydrological data bank. Prepare technical
specifications for procurement of the required resources. Manage the collection
of all forms of hydrological data within area of responsibility and compile
reports. Provide technical support to requests received from stakeholders.
Ensure the compliance to the Occupational Health and Safety Act in line with
statutory and regulatory requirements. Engage in research and developmental
activities for continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : KV Moganedi Tel No: (018) 298 9009
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 42/134 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER (GRADE A-C): SANITATION SERVICES
REGULATION REF NO: 281125/09
Branch: Water & Sanitation Services Management
Dir: Water Services Regulation
SALARY : R343 842 - R586 665 per annum, (OSD), (Offer will be based on proven years
of experience)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Environmental Management or Natural Sciences.
Experience in water services management or regulation will be an added
advantage. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Computer skills
97
(MS Office). Data analysis, good presentation and communication skills.
Technical report writing and professional judgement skills. Understanding of
the National Water Act, Water Services Act and related legislation. An
understanding of the National Green Program. Willingness to travel and work
extensive hours.
DUTIES : Conducting inspections on wastewater systems infrastructure and compilation
of detailed inspection reports with recommendations. Monitoring compliance to
wastewater effluent quality standards and compilation of relevant reports with
recommendations. Issuing letters of non-compliance to wastewater effluent
quality standards and monitoring remedial actions. Monitoring the loading of
wastewater services data by Water Services Institutions in the Integrated
Regulatory Information System (IRIS). Compilation of presentations for
catchment management forums and DWS management. Preparations, and
conducting of assessments relating to regulatory Green Drop regulatory
programme. Coordinating submission and monitoring implementation of
submitted corrective action plans for the Green Drop programme. Coordinating
with Catchment Management Agencies on the investigations and reporting on
sewer spillages and pollution incidents. Monitoring compliance of onsite
sanitation to relevant guidelines and regulations. Evaluate and provide
comments on Environmental Impact Assessment, Basic Assessment Reports,
and Environmental Management Plans relating to infrastructure developments
projects (e.g. housing developments, shopping centers, etc.).
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Musekene Tel No: (051) 405 9000
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 42/135 : CHIEF SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: 281125/10 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Vaal Dam Ref No: 281125/10A (X1 Post)
Orange Vaal (Bloemfontein) Ref No: 281125/10B (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 4 or Senior/Grade 12 Certificate. A valid Security Grade
A PSIRA Certificate. National Diploma in Security Management will serve as
an added advantage. National Key Point Certificate, A valid SAPS Firearm
Competency for Rifle, Shotgun and Pistol will serve as an added advantage.
Three (3) years’ supervisory experience in a security environment. The
disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Computer literacy and skills in
MS Office Software package. Knowledge of prescribed security legislation e.g.
MISS, Protection of Information Act, etc. Knowledge and experience of
emergency procedures. Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety. Sound
knowledge in interpretation and application of security code of conduct,
security legislations and directives. Good listing, communication, and
interpersonal skills. Ability to interact with people at all levels and work in a
team environment. Analytical thinking. Problem-solving and analysis. Ability to
handle conflicts and excellent report writing skills. Work under pressure,
willingness to travel throughout the Area Office and work extended hours.
DUTIES : Implement security polices in line with relevant acts and national directives as
determined. Monitor threats and risk analysis Ensure firearm regulation is
implemented accordingly. Manage deployment and the functioning of security
operations. Implement emergency contingency and procedures. Conduct site
inspections on official residence and offices. Safeguard Departmental assets.
Conducts investigations of security incidents and breaches. Liaise with
National Intelligence Agency (NIA), South African Police Services (SAPS),
other security agencies and DWS National Security Manager Coordinate
security awareness and training Ensure the safe custody and protection of
officials, assets and information through the implementation and adherence to
the MISS/MPSS. Supervision of human resources. Manage and evaluate staff
performance on an on-going basis. Manage private security service provider’s
contracts. Provide operational and administrative assistance regarding security
activities, forums, training, vetting, risk assessments and security reports.
Conduct investigations where necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. CM Mokone. Tel No: (016) 880 0919
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
NOTE : Candidates may be required to complete a practical and theoretical test.
98
POST 42/136 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT (OFFICE OF THE CFO) REF NO: LOCMA 08
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Polokwane (Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency)
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification at NQF level 6 (Diploma or Degree). Experience
in high-level administrative support. Experience in providing executive-level
support in a fast-paced. environment. Strong organizational and
communication skills. Ability to manage multiple priorities and stakeholders.
Excellent organizational and time management skills. Strong written and verbal
communication abilities. Proficiency in Microsoft Office and other
administrative tools.
DUTIES : Provide a secretary/receptionist support service to the CFO, which includes the
following: act as the primary point of contact for the CFO, handling inquiries
and correspondence, manage the CFO’s calendar, schedule meetings, and
coordinate appointments with internal and external stakeholders, assist in
preparing reports, presentations, and documents for meetings, ensuring
accuracy and professionalism. Provide a clerical support service to the CFO
which entails the following: Liaise with travel agencies to make travel
arrangements, process travel and subsistence claims of the office, process all
invoices that emanate from the activities of the work of the CFO, record minutes
of meetings of the CFO where required, draft routine correspondence and
reports, filing of documents for the CFO and the office, administer matters like
the leave registers and telephone accounts, handle the procurement of
standard items like stationery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Fanisa Lamola at 083 273 2494
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : The Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 42/137 : COMMITTEE SECRETARIAT REF NO: LOCMA 07
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Polokwane (Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency)
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant three (3) year tertiary qualification in Administration/Secretarial.
Minimum Three (3) years’ experience in Committee work, administration and
secretarial. Competencies required: knowledge of Governance, Policies and
Procedures. Knowledge of administrative and clerical procedures and
systems. Board Procedures. Schedule 4 of National Water Act. Ethics and
integrity. Writing skills. Detail and focused. High Degree of confidentiality.
Computer skills and good Communication skills. Coping with work pressure.
DUTIES : Record and prepare minutes of the Governing Board and its committees
including (ad-hoc committees) and stakeholders’ sessions. Prepare and have
agendas delivered for the Governing Board and its committees including (ad-
hoc committees). Arrange official transport and accommodation for Board and
Committee members through Supply Chain Management section. Update
outstanding Board Resolutions Register by collating information from various
divisions. Follow up with Executives/Managers on all reports due to be
submitted to committees including ad-hoc committees. Prepare and distribute
to all Executives/Managers schedule of meeting dates with the closing dates
for reports for the financial year. Prepare schedules of the Governing Board
and its Committee meetings dates of every financial year. Arrange venues and
logistics for the meetings of the Governing Board and its committees. Arrange
appointments for the Chairperson and Governing Board members regarding
official business of the LOCMA. Keep filing systems for verification to internal
and external Auditors upon request. Provide documents for verification to
internal and external Auditors upon request. Keep the pecuniary interests
register in respect of the Governing Board members. Have declaration of
interest forms completed by the Governing Board members and all employees
attending the meetings of the Governing Board and its committees. Provide
administrative support regarding the completion of claims by the Governing
99
Board members in respect of attendance of Governing Board and committee
meeting and events. Perform other committee work on request such as for
MANCO, REMCO, etc.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Fanisa Lamola at 083 273 2494
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : The Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 42/138 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A – C (ELECTRICAL) REF NO: 281125/11
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R243 597 – R408 048 per annum, (OSD), (Offer will be based on proven years
of experience)
CENTRE : Jericho Dam (Usutu River)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Electrical Trade Test Certificate. The disclosure of a valid
unexpired driver’s license. Ability to work in a team. Knowledge of production
process and skills. Technical report writing skills. Knowledge of Occupational
Health and Safety Act. Legal compliance. Computer aided technical
applications and computer literacy. Good communication skills. Technical
analysis and problem-solving skills. Willingness to travel and ability to work
long hours. Able to perform well under pressure.
DUTIES : Maintenance of electrical installations in various dams, reservoirs,
departmental houses, pump stations, machinery, repeater stations, dam walls
and pipelines. Electrical maintenance and inspections of cathodic protection
(TRUs). Inspect equipment for technical faults and repair according to
standards. Service equipment according to schedule. Ensure quality
assurance in line with specifications. Ensure adherence to safety standards,
requirements and regulations. Implement planned maintenance and update
maintenance logbooks. Compile and submit reports as required. Individual /
personal development to keep up with new technologies. Compile and submits
technical reports. Keep and maintain job records/ register and supervise and
mentor staff. Perform standby duties if required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A.P Maphanga Tel No: (017) 846 6000
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
NOTE : Candidates may be required to complete a practical and theoretical test.
POST 42/139 : WATER CONTROL AID (X22 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management Northern Operations
Dir: Operations Northern
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Loskop Dam Ref No: 281125/12 (X2 Posts)
Nzhelele Canals Ref No: 281125/13 (X6 Posts)
Rustedeventer (Elandsriver) Ref No: 281125/14 (X3 Posts)
Blyde River Ref No: 281125/15 (X2 Posts)
Mapochs Ref No: 281125/16 (X2 Posts)
Albasin Ref No: 281125/17 (X1 Post)
Nandoni Dam Ref No: 281125/18 (X2 Posts)
Letaba System Ref No: 281125/19 (X1 Post)
Tzaneen Dam Ref No: 281125/20 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 2 or equivalent. A higher qualification will serve as an added
advantage. Good verbal, writing and reading skills. Basic knowledge in
controlling and managing the water distribution for all Government water works.
Basic understanding in occupational Health and safety. Basic knowledge of
flood control. Basic understanding of record keeping.
DUTIES : Opening and closing of sluices according to scheme regulations. Handling the
water distribution sheet according to scheme regulations. Perform minor
maintenance on structures, fencing and sluices. Assist with opening of blocked
pipes and canals. Remove of algae and water grass in canals regularly.
100
Conduct daily inspections on section. Report holes on embankments and any
irregularly on canals to Water Control Officer. Look for cracks in measuring
structures and report defects. Stagnant water on the embankments must be
reported. Painting of sluices and long weir sluices. Ensure that sluice numbers
are clearly marked. Keep canal grids clean. Keep gauge plates clean. Keep
structures clean and their surroundings. Keep inlet hole to measuring box
always open. Clean and lock always the post boxes. Repair minor wash outs.
Repair equipment when necessary. Keep equipment’s safe and lock the store
room always.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. KS Thantsha Tel No: (015) 307 8600
Mr. ST Ngcobo, Tel No: (013) 262 6839
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 42/140 : DRIVER/MESSENGER REF NO: 281125/21
Branch: Ministry
Div: Office of The Deputy Minister
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 2 or equivalent. The disclosure of a valid code 8 Driver’s License. One
(1) year experience in driver/ messenger services. Knowledge of driving
services. Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety protocol. High sense
of responsibility and accountability. Record keeping and reporting procedures.
Reliability and punctuality. Maintain strict confidentiality.
DUTIES : Drive light motor vehicles. Complete vehicle logbook and trip authorisation.
Collection and drop-off of documents. Collect and drop off officials to and from
varies destinations. Conduct routine checks on safety of vehicle. Assist in
registry services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mabelane Tel No: (012) 336 6783
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 42/141 : DRIVER/MESSENGER REF NO: 281125/22
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
Div: Administration Support
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Pretoria (Central Operations)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 2 qualification or equivalent. The disclosure of a valid code 8 Driver’s
License. One (1) year experience in driver/messenger services. Computer
literacy skills. Knowledge of government policies and procedures. Client
orientation and customer focus. Good communication, and interpersonal skills.
Ability to interact with people at all levels and work in a team environment.
Ability to pay attention to detail, handle confidential information, track and trace
documents. Accountability, analytical thinking and problem-solving skills. Must
be prepared to work under pressure, travel extensively and work extended
hours.
DUTIES : Render quality messenger and driver services to the directorate. Safe
conveying of officials to and from various destinations. Routine maintenance
and inspections of vehicle to ensure roadworthiness. Collect and deliver mail
and official documents to and from various destinations. Retrieval and delivery
of files to various offices. Tracking, tracing of correspondence documents and
keeping registers. Operate photocopier machines. Render administrative
assistance through the execution of tasks related to administration support
section as and when there is a need.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SM Muelelwa Tel No: (012) 741 7349
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
NOTE : Candidates may be required to complete a practical and theoretical test.
POST 42/142 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: 281125/23
Branch: Ministry
Div: Office of The Deputy Minister
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
101
CENTRE : Pretoria, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level (1) or (2) Certificate or relevant qualification. N6 or Diploma in
Hospitality & Catering Services will serve as an added advantage. Two (2)
years’ experience in food preparation and serving environment will serve as an
added advantage. Three (3) years of experience working as a cleaner will be
an added advantage. Ability to work under pressure. Basic knowledge keeping
kitchen utensils clean and safe. Knowledge of sanitation, health and safety
procedures. Knowledge of hygiene standards. Knowledge of inventory
procedures and techniques. Knowledge of food preparation techniques.
Knowledge in dishing out food. Basic knowledge in quality management.
Willing to work shifts and overtime.
DUTIES : Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Provide catering support services. Keep
stock of kitchen utensils and equipment. Apply hygiene and safety measures.
Maintain quality control measures of all food provided. Removal of garbage
disposal. Prepare food, snacks, beverages (water, tea, coffee, sugar, and cold
drinks). Setup and convey crockery, cutlery and equipment to dining areas.
Serve food and beverages. Responsible for food suppliers and report waste
and losses.
ENQUIRIES : Tel No: Ms P Mabelane Tel No: (012) 336 6783
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 42/143 : GENERAL WORKER (X10 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Northern Operations
Dir: Operations Northern Cluster (Groblersdal Area Office)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Buffelskloof Dam Ref No: 281125/24 (X1 Post)
Tours Dam Ref No: 281125/25 (X1 Post)
Kwena Dam Ref No: 281125/26 (X2 Posts)
Mapochgronden GWS (Vlugkraal Dam) Ref No: 281125/27 (X1 Post)
Injaka Dam (Bushbuckridge) Ref No: 281125/28 (X1 Post)
Rhenosterkop / Mkhombo Dam Ref No: 281125/29 (X1 Post)
Bronkorstspruit Dam Ref No: 281125/30 (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET Certificate. A higher qualification will serve as an added advantage.
Preference will be given to candidates who can demonstrate relevant work
experience in a similar environment. Knowledge of general worker in handling
gardening equipment and appliances. Knowledge of working on various
general work including lawn care process. Basic knowledge of maintenance
practices for the efficient and safe upkeep of government water infrastructure
and associated facilities.
DUTIES : Carry out general maintenance activities including weed control, gardening,
painting, maintenance of fire breaks and herbicide application. Conduct
general routine inspections on Departmental infrastructure. Perform
maintenance tasks on government water infrastructure and related facilities
such as canals, pipelines, dams, servitudes, terrain and buildings. Report
faults, defects, and safety hazards to supervisors promptly. Load and off-load
equipment. Adhere to the Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Act and all
related safety regulations. Assist with other general duties as and when
requested.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. ST Ngcobo Tel No: (013) 262 6839 (Groblersdal)
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
102
ANNEXURE O
PROVINICIAL ADMINISTRATION: EASTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted via one of the following options on
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/ which is available 24/7 and closes at 23:59
on the closing date. To report technical glitches, for assistance regarding the
system, and/or for activation of your profile, send an email with your ID Number,
your profile email address, details of the issue to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice.gov.za (NB: For technical glitches only – No CVs).
Technical support is limited to working hours: (08:00-16:30 Mon-Thursday and
08:00-16:00 on Fri). Refer all application related e-Recruitment enquiries to the
specified email address: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za. For more
information, please contact Ms. S Ndlabhu Tel No: (040) 608 1272
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
NOTE : Applications must be posted on the new Z83 Form, a comprehensive CV,
indicating three reference persons: Name and Contact Numbers, A relationship
with reference, Furthermore, Applicants are only required to submit a Z83 form
and a comprehensive CV. Communication from the HR of the department
regarding the requirements for certified documents will be limited to shortlisted
candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for a post will be required to
submit certified documents (copies of Qualification(s) inclusive of Matric
certificate, Identity document, Proof of registration, proof of citizenship if not
RSA citizen) on or before the day of the interview following communication from
HR. Applicants must note that further Personnel Suitability checks will be
conducted on short-listed candidates and that their appointment is subject to
the outcome of these checks which include security clearance, security vetting,
qualification verification and criminal record checks. Reference checks will be
done on nominated candidate(s). Note that correspondence will only be
conducted with the short-listed candidates. If you have not been contacted by
the Eastern Cape Department of Health within three (3) months of the closing
date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. We thank all applicants for their interest. People with disabilities
are encouraged to apply for these posts.
OTHER POSTS
POST 42/144 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 –3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/MO-
ANZO/MIN/01/11/2025 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 – R1 078 116 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R1 142 553 – R1 247 202 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R1 322 352 – R1 647 630 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification that allows registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner.
Applicants in possession of a foreign qualification must be ready to produce
prior or on the interview date an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) or any other regulating bodies. Grade 1: No
Experience required. Grade 2: Minimum of 5 years relevant experience after
registration. Grade 3: Minimum of 10 years’ experience after registration.
DUTIES : Provision of quality patient-centred care for all patients. Examine, investigate,
diagnose and oversee the treatment of patients in the emergency department.
Provision of after-hours services to care for emergencies presenting to the
institution. Training and supervision of undergraduate and/or postgraduate
medical students. Participation in activities within the discipline, including case
presentations, unit rounds presentations, journal club and other departmental
meetings. Render applicable administration functions. Attend to meetings,
workshops and training courses as directed by the Head of Department.
Perform other duties as assigned by the supervisor. Observe and comply with
all departmental policies and guidelines regulating employment relationships
and clinical functioning. The incumbent must also be prepared to train, develop
and supervise undergraduate and postgraduate junior doctors.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Praim Tel No: (039) 797 6070 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
103
POST 42/145 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 –3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/MO-
AMA/MIN/02/11/2025 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 – R1 078 116 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R1 142 553 – R1 247 202 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R1 322 352 – R1 647 630 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Amathole District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification that allow registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner.
Applicants in possession of a foreign qualification must be ready to produce
prior or on the interview date an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) or any other regulating bodies. Grade 1: No
Experience required. Grade 2: Minimum of 5 years relevant experience after
registration. Grade 3: Minimum of 10 years’ experience after registration.
DUTIES : Provision of quality patient centred care for all patients. Examine, investigate,
diagnose and oversee the treatment of patients in the emergency department.
Provision of after- hours services to care for emergencies presenting to the
institution. Training and supervision of undergraduate and/or post graduate
medical students. Participation in activities within the discipline including case
presentations, unit rounds presentations, journal club and other departmental
meetings. Render applicable administration functions. Attend to meetings,
workshops and training courses as directed by the Head of Department.
Perform other duties as assigned by the supervisor. Observe and comply with
all departmental policies and guidelines regulating employment relationship
clinical functioning. The incumbent must also be prepared to train, develop and
supervise of undergraduate and post graduate junior doctors.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Njokweni Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/146 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 –3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/MO-
BCM/MIN/03/11/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 – R1 078 116 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R1 142 553 – R1 247 202 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R1 322 352 – R1 647 630 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification that allow registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner.
Applicants in possession of a foreign qualification must be ready to produce
prior or on the interview date an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) or any other regulating bodies. Grade 1: No
Experience required. Grade 2: Minimum of 5 years relevant experience after
registration. Grade 3: Minimum of 10 years’ experience after registration.
DUTIES : Provision of quality patient centred care for all patients. Examine, investigate,
diagnose and oversee the treatment of patients in the emergency department.
Provision of after- hours services to care for emergencies presenting to the
institution. Training and supervision of undergraduate and/or post graduate
medical students. Participation in activities within the discipline including case
presentations, unit rounds presentations, journal club and other departmental
meetings. Render applicable administration functions. Attend to meetings,
workshops and training courses as directed by the Head of Department.
Perform other duties as assigned by the supervisor. Observe and comply with
all departmental policies and guidelines regulating employment relationship
clinical functioning. The incumbent must also be prepared to train, develop and
supervise of undergraduate and post graduate junior doctors.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Jaceni Tel No: (043) 7433 006/057 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/147 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 –3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/MO-
CH/MIN/04/11/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 – R1 078 116 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R1 142 553 – R1 247 202 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R1 322 352 – R1 647 630 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification that allow registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner.
104
Applicants in possession of a foreign qualification must be ready to produce
prior or on the interview date an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) or any other regulating bodies. Grade 1: No
Experience required. Grade 2: Minimum of 5 years relevant experience after
registration. Grade 3: Minimum of 10 years’ experience after registration.
DUTIES : Provision of quality patient centred care for all patients. Examine, investigate,
diagnose and oversee the treatment of patients in the emergency department.
Provision of after- hours services to care for emergencies presenting to the
institution. Training and supervision of undergraduate and/or post graduate
medical students. Participation in activities within the discipline including case
presentations, unit rounds presentations, journal club and other departmental
meetings. Render applicable administration functions. Attend to meetings,
workshops and training courses as directed by the Head of Department.
Perform other duties as assigned by the supervisor. Observe and comply with
all departmental policies and guidelines regulating employment relationship
clinical functioning. The incumbent must also be prepared to train, develop and
supervise of undergraduate and post graduate junior doctors.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Solomane Tel No: (045) 8071110/1101 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/148 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 –3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/MO-
JGQ/MIN/05/11/2025 (X14 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 – R1 078 116 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R1 142 553 – R1 247 202 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R1 322 352 – R1 647 630 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification that allow registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner.
Applicants in possession of a foreign qualification must be ready to produce
prior or on the interview date an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) or any other regulating bodies. Grade 1: No
Experience required. Grade 2: Minimum of 5 years relevant experience after
registration. Grade 3: Minimum of 10 years’ experience after registration.
DUTIES : Provision of quality patient centred care for all patients. Examine, investigate,
diagnose and oversee the treatment of patients in the emergency department.
Provision of after- hours services to care for emergencies presenting to the
institution. Training and supervision of undergraduate and/or post graduate
medical students. Participation in activities within the discipline including case
presentations, unit rounds presentations, journal club and other departmental
meetings. Render applicable administration functions. Attend to meetings,
workshops and training courses as directed by the Head of Department.
Perform other duties as assigned by the supervisor. Observe and comply with
all departmental policies and guidelines regulating employment relationship
clinical functioning. The incumbent must also be prepared to train, develop and
supervise of undergraduate and post graduate junior doctors.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JS Ndzinde Tel No: (051) 633 9631 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/149 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 –3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/MO-
UTH/MIN/06/11/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 – R1 078 116 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R1 142 553 – R1 247 202 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R1 322 352 – R1 647 630 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Uitenhage Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification that allow registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner.
Applicants in possession of a foreign qualification must be ready to produce
prior or on the interview date an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) or any other regulating bodies. Grade 1: No
Experience required. Grade 2: Minimum of 5 years relevant experience after
registration. Grade 3: Minimum of 10 years’ experience after registration.
DUTIES : Provision of quality patient centred care for all patients. Examine, investigate,
diagnose and oversee the treatment of patients in the emergency department.
Provision of after- hours services to care for emergencies presenting to the
institution. Training and supervision of undergraduate and/or post graduate
105
medical students. Participation in activities within the discipline including case
presentations, unit rounds presentations, journal club and other departmental
meetings. Render applicable administration functions. Attend to meetings,
workshops and training courses as directed by the Head of Department.
Perform other duties as assigned by the supervisor. Observe and comply with
all departmental policies and guidelines regulating employment relationship
clinical functioning. The incumbent must also be prepared to train, develop and
supervise of undergraduate and post graduate junior doctors.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Davids Tel No: (041) 391 8164 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/150 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 –3 REF NO. ECHEALTH/MO-
ORT/MIN/07/11/2025 (X17 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 – R1 078 116 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R1 142 553 – R1 247 202 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R1 322 352 – R1 647 630 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification that allow registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner.
Applicants in possession of a foreign qualification must be ready to produce
prior or on the interview date an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) or any other regulating bodies. Grade 1: No
Experience required. Grade 2: Minimum of 5 years relevant experience after
registration. Grade 3: Minimum of 10 years’ experience after registration.
DUTIES : Provision of quality patient centred care for all patients. Examine, investigate,
diagnose and oversee the treatment of patients in the emergency department.
Provision of after- hours services to care for emergencies presenting to the
institution. Training and supervision of undergraduate and/or post graduate
medical students. Participation in activities within the discipline including case
presentations, unit rounds presentations, journal club and other departmental
meetings. Render applicable administration functions. Attend to meetings,
workshops and training courses as directed by the Head of Department.
Perform other duties as assigned by the supervisor. Observe and comply with
all departmental policies and guidelines regulating employment relationship
clinical functioning. The incumbent must also be prepared to train, develop and
supervise of undergraduate and post graduate junior doctors.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Sokutu Tel No: (047) 502 9000 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/151 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 –3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/MO-
SB/MIN/08/11/2025 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 – R1 078 116 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R1 142 553 – R1 247 202 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R1 322 352 – R1 647 630 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification that allow registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner.
Applicants in possession of a foreign qualification must be ready to produce
prior or on the interview date an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) or any other regulating bodies. Grade 1: No
Experience required. Grade 2: Minimum of 5 years relevant experience after
registration. Grade 3: Minimum of 10 years’ experience after registration.
DUTIES : Provision of quality patient centred care for all patients. Examine, investigate,
diagnose and oversee the treatment of patients in the emergency department.
Provision of after- hours services to care for emergencies presenting to the
institution. Training and supervision of undergraduate and/or post graduate
medical students. Participation in activities within the discipline including case
presentations, unit rounds presentations, journal club and other departmental
meetings. Render applicable administration functions. Attend to meetings,
workshops and training courses as directed by the Head of Department.
Perform other duties as assigned by the supervisor. Observe and comply with
all departmental policies and guidelines regulating employment relationship
clinical functioning. The incumbent must also be prepared to train, develop and
supervise of undergraduate and post graduate junior doctors.
106
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Sulo Tel No: (041) 408 8509 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/152 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 –3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/MO-
CMRH/MIN/09/11/2025 (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 – R1 078 116 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R1 142 553 – R1 247 202 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R1 322 352 – R1 647 630 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Cecilia Makiwane Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification that allow registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner.
Applicants in possession of a foreign qualification must be ready to produce
prior or on the interview date an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) or any other regulating bodies. Grade 1: No
Experience required. Grade 2: Minimum of 5 years relevant experience after
registration. Grade 3: Minimum of 10 years’ experience after registration.
DUTIES : Provision of quality patient centred care for all patients. Examine, investigate,
diagnose and oversee the treatment of patients in the emergency department.
Provision of after- hours services to care for emergencies presenting to the
institution. Training and supervision of undergraduate and/or post graduate
medical students. Participation in activities within the discipline including case
presentations, unit rounds presentations, journal club and other departmental
meetings. Render applicable administration functions. Attend to meetings,
workshops and training courses as directed by the Head of Department.
Perform other duties as assigned by the supervisor. Observe and comply with
all departmental policies and guidelines regulating employment relationship
clinical functioning. The incumbent must also be prepared to train, develop and
supervise of undergraduate and post graduate junior doctors.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Matshaya Tel No: (043) 708 2121 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/153 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 –3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/MO-
FTH/MIN/10/11/2025 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 – R1 078 116 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R1 142 553 – R1 247 202 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R1 322 352 – R1 647 630 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Frere Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification that allow registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner.
Applicants in possession of a foreign qualification must be ready to produce
prior or on the interview date an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) or any other regulating bodies. Grade 1: No
Experience required. Grade 2: Minimum of 5 years relevant experience after
registration. Grade 3: Minimum of 10 years’ experience after registration.
DUTIES : Provision of quality patient centred care for all patients. Examine, investigate,
diagnose and oversee the treatment of patients in the emergency department.
Provision of after- hours services to care for emergencies presenting to the
institution. Training and supervision of undergraduate and/or post graduate
medical students. Participation in activities within the discipline including case
presentations, unit rounds presentations, journal club and other departmental
meetings. Render applicable administration functions. Attend to meetings,
workshops and training courses as directed by the Head of Department.
Perform other duties as assigned by the supervisor. Observe and comply with
all departmental policies and guidelines regulating employment relationship
clinical functioning. The incumbent must also be prepared to train, develop and
supervise of undergraduate and post graduate junior doctors.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mthitshana Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/154 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 –3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/MO-
FRH/MIN/11/11/2025 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 – R1 078 116 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R1 142 553 – R1 247 202 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R1 322 352 – R1 647 630 per annum, (OSD)
107
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Frontier Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification that allow registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner.
Applicants in possession of a foreign qualification must be ready to produce
prior or on the interview date an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) or any other regulating bodies. Grade 1: No
Experience required. Grade 2: Minimum of 5 years relevant experience after
registration. Grade 3: Minimum of 10 years’ experience after registration.
DUTIES : Provision of quality patient centred care for all patients. Examine, investigate,
diagnose and oversee the treatment of patients in the emergency department.
Provision of after- hours services to care for emergencies presenting to the
institution. Training and supervision of undergraduate and/or post graduate
medical students. Participation in activities within the discipline including case
presentations, unit rounds presentations, journal club and other departmental
meetings. Render applicable administration functions. Attend to meetings,
workshops and training courses as directed by the Head of Department.
Perform other duties as assigned by the supervisor. Observe and comply with
all departmental policies and guidelines regulating employment relationship
clinical functioning. The incumbent must also be prepared to train, develop and
supervise of undergraduate and post graduate junior doctors.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Sonxujwa Tel No: (045) 808 4272 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/155 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 –3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/MO-
LVH/MIN/12/11/2025 (X15 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 – R1 078 116 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R1 142 553 – R1 247 202 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R1 322 352 – R1 647 630 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Livingstone Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification that allow registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner.
Applicants in possession of a foreign qualification must be ready to produce
prior or on the interview date an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) or any other regulating bodies. Grade 1: No
Experience required. Grade 2: Minimum of 5 years relevant experience after
registration. Grade 3: Minimum of 10 years’ experience after registration.
DUTIES : Provision of quality patient centred care for all patients. Examine, investigate,
diagnose and oversee the treatment of patients in the emergency department.
Provision of after- hours services to care for emergencies presenting to the
institution. Training and supervision of undergraduate and/or post graduate
medical students. Participation in activities within the discipline including case
presentations, unit rounds presentations, journal club and other departmental
meetings. Render applicable administration functions. Attend to meetings,
workshops and training courses as directed by the Head of Department.
Perform other duties as assigned by the supervisor. Observe and comply with
all departmental policies and guidelines regulating employment relationship
clinical functioning. The incumbent must also be prepared to train, develop and
supervise of undergraduate and post graduate junior doctors.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mabanga Tel No: (041) 405 2348 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/156 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 –3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/MO-
MRH/MIN/13/11/2025 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 – R1 078 116 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R1 142 553 – R1 247 202 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R1 322 352 – R1 647 630 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Mthatha Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification that allows registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner.
Applicants in possession of a foreign qualification must be ready to produce
prior or on the interview date an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) or any other regulating bodies. Grade 1: No
Experience required. Grade 2: Minimum of 5 years relevant experience after
registration. Grade 3: Minimum of 10 years’ experience after registration.
108
DUTIES : Provision of quality patient-centred care for all patients. Examine, investigate,
diagnose and oversee the treatment of patients in the emergency department.
Provision of after-hours services to care for emergencies presenting to the
institution. Training and supervision of undergraduate and/or postgraduate
medical students. Participation in activities within the discipline, including case
presentations, unit rounds presentations, journal club and other departmental
meetings. Render applicable administration functions. Attend to meetings,
workshops and training courses as directed by the Head of Department.
Perform other duties as assigned by the supervisor. Observe and comply with
all departmental policies and guidelines regulating employment relationships
and clinical functioning. The incumbent must also be prepared to train, develop
and supervise undergraduate and postgraduate junior doctors.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Mkhosi Tel No (047) 502 4143/4008 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/157 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 –3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/MO-
SERH/MIN/14/11/2025 (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 – R1 078 116 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R1 142 553 – R1 247 202 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R1 322 352 – R1 647 630 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, St. Elizabeth Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification that allows registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner.
Applicants in possession of a foreign qualification must be ready to produce
prior or on the interview date an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) or any other regulating bodies. Grade 1: No
Experience required. Grade 2: Minimum of 5 years relevant experience after
registration. Grade 3: Minimum of 10 years’ experience after registration.
DUTIES : Provision of quality patient-centred care for all patients. Examine, investigate,
diagnose and oversee the treatment of patients in the emergency department.
Provision of after-hours services to care for emergencies presenting to the
institution. Training and supervision of undergraduate and/or postgraduate
medical students. Participation in activities within the discipline, including case
presentations, unit rounds presentations, journal club and other departmental
meetings. Render applicable administration functions. Attend to meetings,
workshops and training courses as directed by the Head of Department.
Perform other duties as assigned by the supervisor. Observe and comply with
all departmental policies and guidelines regulating employment relationships
and clinical functioning. The incumbent must also be prepared to train, develop
and supervise undergraduate and postgraduate junior doctors.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Langa Tel No: (039) 253 5012 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/158 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 –3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/MO-
NMAH/MIN/15/11/2025 (X10 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 – R1 078 116 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R1 142 553 – R1 247 202 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R1 322 352 – R1 647 630 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification that allows registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner.
Applicants in possession of a foreign qualification must be ready to produce
prior or on the interview date an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) or any other regulating bodies. Grade 1: No
Experience required. Grade 2: Minimum of 5 years relevant experience after
registration. Grade 3: Minimum of 10 years’ experience after registration.
DUTIES : Provision of quality patient-centred care for all patients. Examine, investigate,
diagnose and oversee the treatment of patients in the emergency department.
Provision of after-hours services to care for emergencies presenting to the
institution. Training and supervision of undergraduate and/or postgraduate
medical students. Participation in activities within the discipline, including case
presentations, unit rounds presentations, journal club and other departmental
meetings. Render applicable administration functions. Attend to meetings,
workshops and training courses as directed by the Head of Department.
Perform other duties as assigned by the supervisor. Observe and comply with
109
all departmental policies and guidelines regulating employment relationships
and clinical functioning. The incumbent must also be prepared to train, develop
and supervise undergraduate and postgraduate junior doctors.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Calaza Tel No: (047) 502 4469/4320 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/159 : SPEECH THERAPIST GRADE 1-3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/SPE-
MKZH/MIN/24/11/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 – R454 191 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R463 941 - R529 221 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R543 099 – R657 507 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District, Madzikane Ka Zulu Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior certificate, bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification,
Speech Therapy or Speech therapy and Audiology that allows for registration
with HPCSA as a Speech Therapist or Speech Therapist and Audiologist (dual
registration) as an independent practitioner. Proof of current renewal of practice
license with HPCSA as a Speech therapist or Speech Therapist and Audiologist
(dual registration) Independent practice will be required prior or on the interview
date. Knowledge, skills and Competencies required: Sound knowledge of
relevant legislation guiding the provision of clinical health care in the public
sector. I.e. Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety, Patients' Rights
Charter, Batho Pele principles, Ministerial priorities, Ideal Hospitals Realisation
Framework, etc. Good communication skills, Report writing skills, problem-
solving and decision-making, and computer skills. Ability to work in a multi-
disciplinary environment. A valid driver’s license will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Assess, plan and implement Speech Therapy treatment methods within the
speech therapy service and other allocated areas of work, including cerebral
palsy management. Perform administrative tasks such as accurate compilation
of monthly statistics, clinical audits, report writing, attend and participate in
meetings and assist in the development and implementation of protocols and
policies. Provide mentorship and guidance to community service therapists and
students. Implement a referral system and ensure accurate record-keeping
standards and quality assurance requirements. Participate in the skills
development programme of the Department of Health. Assist in safeguarding
and evaluating the status of equipment and infrastructure with a repair and
maintenance programme, as well as stock control management. Contribute
towards planning, budgeting, procurement processes and exercise control of
expenditure within your departmental cost centre. Support the supervisor in all
transformative changes and additional supervisory tasks as needed. Assist in
the provision of high-quality Speech Therapy service through the development
and implementation of appropriate systems, protocols, quality assurance
programs and internal controls. Market and promote Speech Therapy services
and contribute towards research and training.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Praim Tel No: (039) 797 6070 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/160 : DIAGNOSTIC RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 -3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/DRAD-
MCHC/MIN/25/11/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 – R454 191 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R463 941 - R529 221 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R543 099 – R657 507 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District, Meje CHC
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior certificate, an appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer. Current registration with the
HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer. Competencies: Knowledge of relevant
legislation guiding the provision of clinical care in the public sector i.e. Health
Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act, Patient Rights Charter, Batho Pele
principles, Ministerial Priorities and National Core Standards. Good
communication skills. Report writing skills. Ability to function as part of a team.
Decision making skills. Effective communication with patients, supervisors,
other health professionals and colleagues in the multidisciplinary health team.
Computer skills.
DUTIES : To administer the operations, management and good governance of diagnostic
radiography services including all the resources in the Department. Manage
the provision of quality Radiography services in the Department, through the
110
implementation of appropriate systems and measures. Adhere and ensure
compliance with HPCSA Legislation. Monitor and Evaluate services rendered
in order to implement continuous quality improvement programs. Performance
and supervision of all clinical duties pertaining to the provision of Diagnostic
Radiography services. Participate in the development of internal policy, and
interact with other related professions within the multi-disciplinary health team.
Manage and facilitate the continuous training and Development of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Praim Tel No: (039) 797 6070 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/161 : SPEECH THERAPIST GRADE 1-3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/SPE-
CMRH/MIN/26/11/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 – R454 191 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R463 941 - R529 221 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R543 099 – R657 507 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Cecilia Makiwane Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification,
Speech Therapy or Speech therapy and Audiology that allows for registration
with HPCSA as a Speech Therapist or Speech Therapist and Audiologist (dual
registration) as an independent practitioner Proof of current renewal of practice
license with HPCSA as a Speech therapist or Speech Therapist and Audiologist
(dual registration) Independent practice will be required prior or on the interview
date. Knowledge, skills and Competencies required: Sound knowledge of
relevant legislation guiding the provision of clinical health care in the public
sector. I.e. Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety, Patients' Rights
Charter, Batho Pele principles, Ministerial priorities, Ideal Hospitals Realisation
Framework, etc. Good communication skills, Report writing skills, problem-
solving and decision-making, and computer skills. Ability to work in a multi-
disciplinary environment. A valid driver’s license will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Assess, plan and implement Speech Therapy treatment methods within the
speech therapy service and other allocated areas of work, including cerebral
palsy management. Perform administrative tasks such as accurate compilation
of monthly statistics, clinical audits, report writing, attend and participate in
meetings and assist in the development and implementation of protocols and
policies. Provide mentorship and guidance to community service therapists
and students. Implement a referral system and ensure accurate record-keeping
standards and quality assurance requirements. Participate in the skills
development programme of the Department of Health. Assist in safeguarding
and evaluating the status of equipment and infrastructure with a repair and
maintenance programme, as well as stock control management. Contribute
towards planning, budgeting, procurement processes and exercise control of
expenditure within your departmental cost centre. Support the supervisor in all
transformative changes and additional supervisory tasks as needed. Assist in
the provision of high-quality Speech Therapy service through the development
and implementation of appropriate systems, protocols, quality assurance
programs and internal controls. Market and promote Speech Therapy services
and contribute towards research and training.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Matshaya Tel No: (043) 708 2121 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/162 : SPEECH THERAPIST GRADE 1-3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/SPE-
FTH/MIN/27/11/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 – R454 191 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R463 941 - R529 221 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R543 099 – R657 507 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Frere Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification,
Speech Therapy or Speech therapy and Audiology that allows for registration
with HPCSA as a Speech Therapist or Speech Therapist and Audiologist (dual
registration) as an independent practitioner. Proof of current renewal of practice
license with HPCSA as a Speech therapist or Speech Therapist and Audiologist
(dual registration) Independent practice will be required prior or on the interview
date. Knowledge, skills and Competencies required: Sound knowledge of
relevant legislation guiding the provision of clinical health care in the public
sector. I.e. Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety, Patients' Rights
111
Charter, Batho Pele principles, Ministerial priorities, Ideal Hospitals Realisation
Framework, etc. Good communication skills, Report writing skills, problem-
solving and decision-making, and computer skills. Ability to work in a multi-
disciplinary environment. A valid driver’s license will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Assess, plan and implement Speech Therapy treatment methods within the
speech therapy service and other allocated areas of work, including cerebral
palsy management. Perform administrative tasks such as accurate compilation
of monthly statistics, clinical audits, report writing, attend and participate in
meetings and assist in the development and implementation of protocols and
policies. Provide mentorship and guidance to community service therapists
and students. Implement a referral system and ensure accurate record-keeping
standards and quality assurance requirements. Participate in the skills
development programme of the Department of Health. Assist in safeguarding
and evaluating the status of equipment and infrastructure with a repair and
maintenance programme, as well as stock control management. Contribute
towards planning, budgeting, procurement processes and exercise control of
expenditure within your departmental cost centre. Support the supervisor in all
transformative changes and additional supervisory tasks as needed. Assist in
the provision of high-quality Speech Therapy service through the development
and implementation of appropriate systems, protocols, quality assurance
programs and internal controls. Market and promote Speech Therapy services
and contribute towards research and training.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mthitshana Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/163 : SPEECH THERAPIST GRADE 1-3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/SPE-
DNRH/MIN/28/11/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 – R454 191 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R463 941 - R529 221 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R543 099 – R657 507 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Dora Nginza Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification,
Speech Therapy or Speech therapy and Audiology that allows for registration
with HPCSA as a Speech Therapist or Speech Therapist and Audiologist (dual
registration) as an independent practitioner Proof of current renewal of practice
license with HPCSA as a Speech therapist or Speech Therapist and Audiologist
(dual registration) Independent practice will be required prior or on the interview
date. Knowledge, skills and Competencies required: Sound knowledge of
relevant legislation guiding the provision of clinical health care in the public
sector. I.e. Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety, Patients' Rights
Charter, Batho Pele principles, Ministerial priorities, Ideal Hospitals Realisation
Framework, etc. Good communication skills, Report writing skills, problem-
solving and decision-making, and computer skills. Ability to work in a multi-
disciplinary environment. A valid driver’s license will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Assess, plan and implement Speech Therapy treatment methods within the
speech therapy service and other allocated areas of work, including cerebral
palsy management. Perform administrative tasks such as accurate compilation
of monthly statistics, clinical audits, report writing, attend and participate in
meetings and assist in the development and implementation of protocols and
policies. Provide mentorship and guidance to community service therapists
and students. Implement a referral system and ensure accurate record-keeping
standards and quality assurance requirements. Participate in the skills
development programme of the Department of Health. Assist in safeguarding
and evaluating the status of equipment and infrastructure with a repair and
maintenance programme, as well as stock control management. Contribute
towards planning, budgeting, procurement processes and exercise control of
expenditure within your departmental cost centre. Support the supervisor in all
transformative changes and additional supervisory tasks as needed. Assist in
the provision of high-quality Speech Therapy service through the development
and implementation of appropriate systems, protocols, quality assurance
programs and internal controls. Market and promote Speech Therapy services
and contribute towards research and training.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Bomela Tel No: (041) 406 4421 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
112
POST 42/164 : SPEECH THERAPIST GRADE 1-3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/SPE-
NMAH/MIN/29/11/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 – R454 191 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R463 941 - R529 221 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R543 099 – R657 507 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification,
Speech Therapy or Speech therapy and Audiology that allows for registration
with HPCSA as a Speech Therapist or Speech Therapist and Audiologist (dual
registration) as an independent practitioner. Proof of current renewal of practice
license with HPCSA as a Speech therapist or Speech Therapist and Audiologist
(dual registration) Independent practice will be required prior or on the interview
date. Knowledge, skills and Competencies required: Sound knowledge of
relevant legislation guiding the provision of clinical health care in the public
sector. I.e. Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety, Patients' Rights
Charter, Batho Pele principles, Ministerial priorities, Ideal Hospitals Realisation
Framework, etc. Good communication skills, Report writing skills, problem-
solving and decision-making, and computer skills. Ability to work in a multi-
disciplinary environment. A valid driver’s license will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Assess, plan and implement Speech Therapy treatment methods within the
speech therapy service and other allocated areas of work, including cerebral
palsy management. Perform administrative tasks such as accurate compilation
of monthly statistics, clinical audits, report writing, attend and participate in
meetings and assist in the development and implementation of protocols and
policies. Provide mentorship and guidance to community service therapists
and students. Implement a referral system and ensure accurate record-keeping
standards and quality assurance requirements. Participate in the skills
development programme of the Department of Health. Assist in safeguarding
and evaluating the status of equipment and infrastructure with a repair and
maintenance programme, as well as stock control management. Contribute
towards planning, budgeting, procurement processes and exercise control of
expenditure within your departmental cost centre. Support the supervisor in all
transformative changes and additional supervisory tasks as needed. Assist in
the provision of high-quality Speech Therapy service through the development
and implementation of appropriate systems, protocols, quality assurance
programs and internal controls. Market and promote Speech Therapy services
and contribute towards research and training.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Calaza Tel No: (047) 502 4469/4320 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/165 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1-3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/OCT-
MKZH/MIN/30/11/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 – R454 191 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R463 941 - R529 221 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R543 099 – R657 507 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District, Madzikane Ka Zulu Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, Bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification in
Occupational therapy that allows for registration with HPCSA as an
Occupational therapist. Proof of current renewal of practice license with
HPCSA as an Occupational therapist (Independent practice) will be required
prior or on the interview date. Knowledge, skills and Competencies required:
Sound knowledge of relevant legislation guiding the provision of clinical health
care in the public sector. I.e. Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety,
Patients' Rights Charter, Batho Pele principles, Ministerial priorities, Ideal
Hospitals Realisation Framework, etc. Good communication skills, Report
writing skills, problem-solving and decision-making, and computer skills. Ability
to work in a multi-disciplinary environment. A valid driver’s license is an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Assess, plan and implement Occupational therapy treatment methods within
Occupational Therapy services and the other allocated areas of work, including
management of cerebral palsy services. Perform administrative tasks such as
accurate compilation of monthly statistics, clinical audits, report writing, attend
and participate in meetings and assist in the development and implementation
of protocols and policies. Provide mentorship and guidance to community
service therapists and students. Implement a referral system and ensure
113
accurate record-keeping standards and quality assurance requirements.
Participate in the skills development programme of the Department of Health.
Assist in safeguarding and evaluating the status of equipment and
infrastructure with a repair and maintenance programme, as well as stock
control management. Contribute towards planning, budgeting, procurement
processes and exercise control of expenditure within your departmental cost
centre. Support the supervisor in all transformative changes and additional
supervisory tasks as needed. Assist in the provision of high-quality
Occupational therapy services through the development and implementation
of appropriate systems, protocols, quality assurance programs and internal
controls. Market and promote Occupational therapy services and contribute
towards research and training.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Praim Tel No: (039) 797 6070 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/166 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1-3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/OCT-
CMRH/MIN/31/11/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 – R454 191 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R463 941 - R529 221 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R543 099 – R657 507 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Cecilia Makiwane Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, Bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification in
Occupational therapy that allows for registration with HPCSA as an
Occupational therapist. Proof of current renewal of practice license with
HPCSA as an Occupational therapist (Independent practice) will be required
prior or on the interview date. Knowledge, skills and Competencies required:
Sound knowledge of relevant legislation guiding the provision of clinical health
care in the public sector. I.e. Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety,
Patients' Rights Charter, Batho Pele principles, Ministerial priorities, Ideal
Hospitals Realisation Framework, etc. Good communication skills, Report
writing skills, problem-solving and decision-making, and computer skills. Ability
to work in a multi-disciplinary environment. A valid driver’s license is an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Assess, plan and implement Occupational therapy treatment methods within
Occupational Therapy services and the other allocated areas of work, including
management of cerebral palsy services. Perform administrative tasks such as
accurate compilation of monthly statistics, clinical audits, report writing, attend
and participate in meetings and assist in the development and implementation
of protocols and policies. Provide mentorship and guidance to community
service therapists and students. Implement a referral system and ensure
accurate record-keeping standards and quality assurance requirements.
Participate in the skills development programme of the Department of Health.
Assist in safeguarding and evaluating the status of equipment and
infrastructure with a repair and maintenance programme, as well as stock
control management. Contribute towards planning, budgeting, procurement
processes and exercise control of expenditure within your departmental cost
centre. Support the supervisor in all transformative changes and additional
supervisory tasks as needed. Assist in the provision of high-quality
Occupational therapy services through the development and implementation
of appropriate systems, protocols, quality assurance programs and internal
controls. Market and promote Occupational therapy services and contribute
towards research and training.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Matshaya Tel No: (043) 708 2121 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/167 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1-3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/OCT-
FTH/MIN/32/11/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 – R454 191 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R463 941 - R529 221 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R543 099 – R657 507 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Frere Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, Bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification in
Occupational therapy that allows for registration with HPCSA as an
Occupational therapist. Proof of current renewal of practice license with
HPCSA as an Occupational therapist (Independent practice) will be required
114
prior or on the interview date. Knowledge, skills and Competencies required:
Sound knowledge of relevant legislation guiding the provision of clinical health
care in the public sector. I.e. Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety,
Patients' Rights Charter, Batho Pele principles, Ministerial priorities, Ideal
Hospitals Realisation Framework, etc. Good communication skills, Report
writing skills, problem-solving and decision-making, and computer skills. Ability
to work in a multi-disciplinary environment. A valid driver’s license is an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Assess, plan and implement Occupational therapy treatment methods within
Occupational Therapy services and the other allocated areas of work, including
management of cerebral palsy services. Perform administrative tasks such as
accurate compilation of monthly statistics, clinical audits, report writing, attend
and participate in meetings and assist in the development and implementation
of protocols and policies. Provide mentorship and guidance to community
service therapists and students. Implement a referral system and ensure
accurate record-keeping standards and quality assurance requirements.
Participate in the skills development programme of the Department of Health.
Assist in safeguarding and evaluating the status of equipment and
infrastructure with a repair and maintenance programme, as well as stock
control management. Contribute towards planning, budgeting, procurement
processes and exercise control of expenditure within your departmental cost
centre. Support the supervisor in all transformative changes and additional
supervisory tasks as needed. Assist in the provision of high-quality
Occupational therapy services through the development and implementation
of appropriate systems, protocols, quality assurance programs and internal
controls. Market and promote Occupational therapy services and contribute
towards research and training.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mthitshana Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/168 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1-3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/OCT-
DNRH/MIN/33/11/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 – R454 191 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R463 941 - R529 221 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R543 099 – R657 507 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Dora Nginza Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, Bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification in
Occupational therapy that allows for registration with HPCSA as an
Occupational therapist. Proof of current renewal of practice license with
HPCSA as an Occupational therapist (Independent practice) will be required
prior or on the interview date. Knowledge, skills and Competencies required:
Sound knowledge of relevant legislation guiding the provision of clinical health
care in the public sector. I.e. Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety,
Patients' Rights Charter, Batho Pele principles, Ministerial priorities, Ideal
Hospitals Realisation Framework, etc. Good communication skills, Report
writing skills, problem-solving and decision-making, and computer skills. Ability
to work in a multi-disciplinary environment. A valid driver’s license is an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Assess, plan and implement Occupational therapy treatment methods within
Occupational Therapy services and the other allocated areas of work, including
management of cerebral palsy services. Perform administrative tasks such as
accurate compilation of monthly statistics, clinical audits, report writing, attend
and participate in meetings and assist in the development and implementation
of protocols and policies. Provide mentorship and guidance to community
service therapists and students. Implement a referral system and ensure
accurate record-keeping standards and quality assurance requirements.
Participate in the skills development programme of the Department of Health.
Assist in safeguarding and evaluating the status of equipment and
infrastructure with a repair and maintenance programme, as well as stock
control management. Contribute towards planning, budgeting, procurement
processes and exercise control of expenditure within your departmental cost
centre. Support the supervisor in all transformative changes and additional
supervisory tasks as needed. Assist in the provision of high-quality
Occupational therapy services through the development and implementation
of appropriate systems, protocols, quality assurance programs and internal
115
controls. Market and promote Occupational therapy services and contribute
towards research and training.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Bomela Tel No: (041) 406 4421 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/169 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1-3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/OCT-
NMAH/MIN/34/11/2025 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 – R454 191 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R463 941 - R529 221 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R543 099 – R657 507 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, Bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification in
Occupational therapy that allows for registration with HPCSA as an
Occupational therapist. Proof of current renewal of practice license with
HPCSA as an Occupational therapist (Independent practice) will be required
prior or on the interview date. Knowledge, skills and Competencies required:
Sound knowledge of relevant legislation guiding the provision of clinical health
care in the public sector. I.e. Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety,
Patients' Rights Charter, Batho Pele principles, Ministerial priorities, Ideal
Hospitals Realisation Framework, etc. Good communication skills, Report
writing skills, problem-solving and decision-making, and computer skills. Ability
to work in a multi-disciplinary environment. A valid driver’s license is an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Assess, plan and implement Occupational therapy treatment methods within
Occupational Therapy services and the other allocated areas of work, including
management of cerebral palsy services. Perform administrative tasks such as
accurate compilation of monthly statistics, clinical audits, report writing, attend
and participate in meetings and assist in the development and implementation
of protocols and policies. Provide mentorship and guidance to community
service therapists and students. Implement a referral system and ensure
accurate record-keeping standards and quality assurance requirements.
Participate in the skills development programme of the Department of Health.
Assist in safeguarding and evaluating the status of equipment and
infrastructure with a repair and maintenance programme, as well as stock
control management. Contribute towards planning, budgeting, procurement
processes and exercise control of expenditure within your departmental cost
centre. Support the supervisor in all transformative changes and additional
supervisory tasks as needed. Assist in the provision of high-quality
Occupational therapy services through the development and implementation
of appropriate systems, protocols, quality assurance programs and internal
controls. Market and promote Occupational therapy services and contribute
towards research and training.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Calaza Tel No: (047) 502 4469/4320 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/170 : PHYSIOTHERAPIST GRADE 1-3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/PHI-
MKZH/MIN/35/11/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 – R454 191 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R463 941 - R529 221 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R543 099 – R657 507 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District, Madzikane Ka Zulu Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior certificate, Bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification in
Physiotherapy that allows for registration with HPCSA as a Physiotherapist.
Proof of current renewal of practice license with HPCSA as a Physiotherapist
(Independent practice) will be required prior or on the interview date..
Knowledge, skills and Competencies required: Sound knowledge of relevant
legislation guiding the provision of clinical health care in the public sector. I.e.
Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety, Patients' Rights Charter, Batho
Pele principles, Ministerial priorities, Ideal Hospitals Realisation Framework,
etc. Good communication skills, Report writing skills, problem-solving and
decision-making, and computer skills. Ability to work in a multi-disciplinary
environment. A valid driver’s license is an added advantage.
DUTIES : Assess, plan and implement physiotherapy treatment methods within
Physiotherapy services and other allocated areas of work, including cerebral
Palsy management services. Perform administrative tasks such as accurate
116
compilation of monthly statistics, clinical audits, report writing, attend and
participate in meetings and assist in the development and implementation of
protocols and policies. Provide mentorship and guidance to community service
therapists and students. Implement a referral system and ensure accurate
record-keeping standards and quality assurance requirements. Participate in
the skills development programme of the Department of Health. Assist in
safeguarding and evaluating the status of equipment and infrastructure with a
repair and maintenance programme, as well as stock control management.
Contribute towards planning, budgeting, procurement processes and exercise
control of expenditure within your departmental cost centre. Support the
supervisor in all transformative changes and additional supervisory tasks as
needed. Assist in the provision of high-quality Physiotherapy service through
the development and implementation of appropriate systems, protocols, quality
assurance programs and internal controls. Market and promote Physiotherapy
services and contribute towards research and training.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Praim Tel No: (039) 797 6070 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/171 : PHYSIOTHERAPIST GRADE 1-3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/PHI-
FTH/MIN/36/11/2025 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 – R454 191 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R463 941 - R529 221 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R543 099 – R657 507 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Frere Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior certificate, Bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification in
Physiotherapy that allows for registration with HPCSA as a Physiotherapist.
Proof of current renewal of practice license with HPCSA as a Physiotherapist
(Independent practice) will be required prior or on the interview date.
Knowledge, skills and Competencies required: Sound knowledge of relevant
legislation guiding the provision of clinical health care in the public sector. I.e.
Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety, Patients' Rights Charter, Batho
Pele principles, Ministerial priorities, Ideal Hospitals Realisation Framework,
etc. Good communication skills, Report writing skills, problem-solving and
decision-making, and computer skills. Ability to work in a multi-disciplinary
environment. A valid driver’s license is an added advantage.
DUTIES : Assess, plan and implement physiotherapy treatment methods within
Physiotherapy services and other allocated areas of work, including cerebral
Palsy management services. Perform administrative tasks such as accurate
compilation of monthly statistics, clinical audits, report writing, attend and
participate in meetings and assist in the development and implementation of
protocols and policies. Provide mentorship and guidance to community service
therapists and students. Implement a referral system and ensure accurate
record-keeping standards and quality assurance requirements. Participate in
the skills development programme of the Department of Health. Assist in
safeguarding and evaluating the status of equipment and infrastructure with a
repair and maintenance programme, as well as stock control management.
Contribute towards planning, budgeting, procurement processes and exercise
control of expenditure within your departmental cost centre. Support the
supervisor in all transformative changes and additional supervisory tasks as
needed. Assist in the provision of high-quality Physiotherapy service through
the development and implementation of appropriate systems, protocols, quality
assurance programs and internal controls. Market and promote Physiotherapy
services and contribute towards research and training.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mthitshana Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/172 : PHYSIOTHERAPIST GRADE 1-3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/PHI-
DNRH/MIN/37/11/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 – R454 191 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R463 941 - R529 221 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R543 099 – R657 507 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Dora Nginza Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior certificate, Bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification in
Physiotherapy that allows for registration with HPCSA as a Physiotherapist.
Proof of current renewal of practice license with HPCSA as a Physiotherapist
117
(Independent practice) will be required prior or on the interview date.
Knowledge, skills and Competencies required: Sound knowledge of relevant
legislation guiding the provision of clinical health care in the public sector. I.e.
Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety, Patients' Rights Charter, Batho
Pele principles, Ministerial priorities, Ideal Hospitals Realisation Framework,
etc. Good communication skills, Report writing skills, problem-solving and
decision-making, and computer skills. Ability to work in a multi-disciplinary
environment. A valid driver’s license is an added advantage.
DUTIES : Assess, plan and implement physiotherapy treatment methods within
Physiotherapy services and other allocated areas of work, including cerebral
Palsy management services. Perform administrative tasks such as accurate
compilation of monthly statistics, clinical audits, report writing, attend and
participate in meetings and assist in the development and implementation of
protocols and policies. Provide mentorship and guidance to community service
therapists and students. Implement a referral system and ensure accurate
record-keeping standards and quality assurance requirements. Participate in
the skills development programme of the Department of Health. Assist in
safeguarding and evaluating the status of equipment and infrastructure with a
repair and maintenance programme, as well as stock control management.
Contribute towards planning, budgeting, procurement processes and exercise
control of expenditure within your departmental cost centre. Support the
supervisor in all transformative changes and additional supervisory tasks as
needed. Assist in the provision of high-quality Physiotherapy service through
the development and implementation of appropriate systems, protocols, quality
assurance programs and internal controls. Market and promote Physiotherapy
services and contribute towards research and training.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Bomela Tel No: (041) 406 4421 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/173 : PHYSIOTHERAPIST GRADE 1-3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/PHI-
NMAH/MIN/38/11/2025 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 – R454 191 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R463 941 - R529 221 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R543 099 – R657 507 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior certificate, Bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification in
Physiotherapy that allows for registration with HPCSA as a Physiotherapist.
Proof of current renewal of practice license with HPCSA as a Physiotherapist
(Independent practice) will be required prior or on the interview date.
Knowledge, skills and Competencies required: Sound knowledge of relevant
legislation guiding the provision of clinical health care in the public sector. I.e.
Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety, Patients' Rights Charter, Batho
Pele principles, Ministerial priorities, Ideal Hospitals Realisation Framework,
etc. Good communication skills, Report writing skills, problem-solving and
decision-making, and computer skills. Ability to work in a multi-disciplinary
environment. A valid driver’s license is an added advantage.
DUTIES : Assess, plan and implement physiotherapy treatment methods within
Physiotherapy services and other allocated areas of work, including cerebral
Palsy management services. Perform administrative tasks such as accurate
compilation of monthly statistics, clinical audits, report writing, attend and
participate in meetings and assist in the development and implementation of
protocols and policies. Provide mentorship and guidance to community service
therapists and students. Implement a referral system and ensure accurate
record-keeping standards and quality assurance requirements. Participate in
the skills development programme of the Department of Health. Assist in
safeguarding and evaluating the status of equipment and infrastructure with a
repair and maintenance programme, as well as stock control management.
Contribute towards planning, budgeting, procurement processes and exercise
control of expenditure within your departmental cost centre. Support the
supervisor in all transformative changes and additional supervisory tasks as
needed. Assist in the provision of high-quality Physiotherapy service through
the development and implementation of appropriate systems, protocols, quality
assurance programs and internal controls. Market and promote Physiotherapy
services and contribute towards research and training.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Calaza Tel No: (047) 502 4469/4320 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
118
POST 42/174 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GENERAL GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/PNG-CMRH/MIN/16/11/2025 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 – R376 458 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R396 132 – R459 726 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R476 367 – R601 638 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Cecilia Makiwane Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/Diploma) in Nursing or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Proof of current registration must be produced prior or on the interview date.
Grade 1: No experience required, Grade 2: Minimum of ten (10) years
appropriate/recognisable experience in Nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: Minimum of
twenty (20) years appropriate/recognisable experience in Nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
DUTIES : Execute duties and functions with proficiency within the prescripts of the
applicable legislation. Provide a safe therapeutic environment. Monitor patient
activities. Perform standard procedures in terms of policies and procedures.
Adopt a multidisciplinary approach to promote holistic patient/client care.
Maintain clinical competence by ensuring that scientific principles of nursing
care are implemented. Maintain accurate and complete patient records.
Maintain client satisfaction through quality service, innovation and professional
nursing care by upholding the Batho Pele principles and patients’ rights. To
ensure efficient and effective utilisation of resources. Render quality nursing
care to patients and take overall management of the unit in the absence of the
Operational Manager. Evaluate staff performance adhering to the set
standards of the EPMDS. Motivate, coach and mentor staff. Management and
control of scheduled drugs. Required to work-day and night duty. Any other
duties as required by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Matshaya Tel No: (043) 708 2121 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/175 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GENERAL GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/PNG-FTH/MIN/17/11/2025 (X11 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 – R376 458 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R396 132 – R459 726 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R476 367 – R601 638 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Frere Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/Diploma) in Nursing or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Proof of current registration must be produced prior or on the interview date.
Grade 1: No experience required, Grade 2: Minimum of ten (10) years
appropriate/recognisable experience in Nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: Minimum of
twenty (20) years appropriate/recognisable experience in Nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
DUTIES : Execute duties and functions with proficiency within the prescripts of the
applicable legislation. Provide a safe therapeutic environment. Monitor patient
activities. Perform standard procedures in terms of policies and procedures.
Adopt a multidisciplinary approach to promote holistic patient/client care.
Maintain clinical competence by ensuring that scientific principles of nursing
care are implemented. Maintain accurate and complete patient records.
Maintain client satisfaction through quality service, innovation and professional
nursing care by upholding the Batho Pele principles and patients’ rights. To
ensure efficient and effective utilisation of resources. Render quality nursing
care to patients and take overall management of the unit in the absence of the
Operational Manager. Evaluate staff performance adhering to the set
standards of the EPMDS. Motivate, coach and mentor staff. Management and
control of scheduled drugs. Required to work-day and night duty. Any other
duties as required by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mthitshana Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
119
POST 42/176 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GENERAL GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/PNG-FRH/MIN/18/11/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 – R376 458 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R396 132 – R459 726 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R476 367 – R601 638 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Frontier Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/Diploma) in Nursing or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Proof of current registration must be produced prior or on the interview date.
Grade 1: No experience required, Grade 2: Minimum of ten (10) years
appropriate/recognisable experience in Nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: Minimum of
twenty (20) years appropriate/recognisable experience in Nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
DUTIES : Execute duties and functions with proficiency within the prescripts of the
applicable legislation. Provide a safe therapeutic environment. Monitor patient
activities. Perform standard procedures in terms of policies and procedures.
Adopt a multidisciplinary approach to promote holistic patient/client care.
Maintain clinical competence by ensuring that scientific principles of nursing
care are implemented. Maintain accurate and complete patient records.
Maintain client satisfaction through quality service, innovation and professional
nursing care by upholding the Batho Pele principles and patients’ rights. To
ensure efficient and effective utilisation of resources. Render quality nursing
care to patients and take overall management of the unit in the absence of the
Operational Manager. Evaluate staff performance adhering to the set
standards of the EPMDS. Motivate, coach and mentor staff. Management and
control of scheduled drugs. Required to work-day and night duty. Any other
duties as required by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Sonxujwa Tel No: (045) 808 4272 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/177 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GENERAL GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/PNG-NMAH/MIN/19/11/2025 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 – R376 458 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R396 132 – R459 726 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R476 367 – R601 638 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/Diploma) in Nursing or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Proof of current registration must be produced prior or on the interview date.
Grade 1: No experience required, Grade 2: Minimum of ten (10) years
appropriate/recognisable experience in Nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: Minimum of
twenty (20) years appropriate/recognisable experience in Nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
DUTIES : Execute duties and functions with proficiency within the prescripts of the
applicable legislation. Provide a safe therapeutic environment. Monitor patient
activities. Perform standard procedures in terms of policies and procedures.
Adopt a multidisciplinary approach to promote holistic patient/client care.
Maintain clinical competence by ensuring that scientific principles of nursing
care are implemented. Maintain accurate and complete patient records.
Maintain client satisfaction through quality service, innovation and professional
nursing care by upholding the Batho Pele principles and patients’ rights. To
ensure efficient and effective utilisation of resources. Render quality nursing
care to patients and take overall management of the unit in the absence of the
Operational Manager. Evaluate staff performance adhering to the set
standards of the EPMDS. Motivate, coach and mentor staff. Management and
control of scheduled drugs. Required to work-day and night duty. Any other
duties as required by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Calaza Tel No: (047) 502 4469/4320 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
120
POST 42/178 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GENERAL GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/PNG-MRH/MIN/20/11/2025 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 – R376 458 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R396 132 – R459 726 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R476 367 – R601 638 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Mthatha Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/Diploma) in Nursing or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Proof of current registration must be produced prior or on the interview date.
Grade 1: No experience required, Grade 2: Minimum of ten (10) years
appropriate/recognisable experience in Nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: Minimum of
twenty (20) years appropriate/recognisable experience in Nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
DUTIES : Execute duties and functions with proficiency within the prescripts of the
applicable legislation. Provide a safe therapeutic environment. Monitor patient
activities. Perform standard procedures in terms of policies and procedures.
Adopt a multidisciplinary approach to promote holistic patient/client care.
Maintain clinical competence by ensuring that scientific principles of nursing
care are implemented. Maintain accurate and complete patient records.
Maintain client satisfaction through quality service, innovation and professional
nursing care by upholding the Batho Pele principles and patients’ rights. To
ensure efficient and effective utilisation of resources. Render quality nursing
care to patients and take overall management of the unit in the absence of the
Operational Manager. Evaluate staff performance adhering to the set
standards of the EPMDS. Motivate, coach and mentor staff. Management and
control of scheduled drugs. Required to work-day and night duty. Any other
duties as required by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Mkhosi Tel No: (047) 502 4143/4008 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/179 : PARAMEDIC GRADE 1-3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/PAR-ANZO/MIN/21/11/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R321 372 - R381 012 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R397 308 - R468 600 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R487 014 - R556 854 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 4: R570 267 – R643 155 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District EMS
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Successful completion of the Critical Care Assistant Programme
(CCA) that allows registration with HPCSA as a Paramedic. Registration with
HPCSA as a Paramedic. None after registration with HPCSA as a Paramedic.
Grade 2: Successful Completion of the following courses or obtaining of the
following qualification that allows registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic:
Critical Care Assistant (CCA Qualification) or recognised National Diploma.
Registration with HPCSA as a Paramedic with CCA or a National Diploma. 7
years’ experience after registration with HPCSA as Paramedic (CCA). None
after registration with HPCSA as a paramedic (National Diploma). Grade 3:
Successful Completion of the following courses or obtaining the following
qualification that allows registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic: Critical
Care Assistant (CCA Qualification) or recognised National Diploma or
successful completion of a BTech Degree that allows registration with HPCSA
as an Emergency Care Practitioner (ECP). Registration with HPCSA as
Paramedic (CCA OR NDip) or ECP. Registered Paramedic (CCA) -14 years’
experience after registration with HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered
Paramedic (NDip) - 7 years’ experience after registration with HPCSA as
Paramedic. Registered ECP’s - None after registration with HPCSA as a
paramedic. Grade 4: Successful Completion of the following courses or
obtaining the following qualification that allows registration with the HPCSA as
a Paramedic: Critical Care Assistant (CCA Qualification) or recognised
National Diploma or successful completion of a BTech Degree that allows
registration with HPCSA as an Emergency Care Practitioner (ECP).
Registration with HPCSA as Paramedic (CCA OR NDip) or ECP. Registered
Paramedic (CCA) -24 years’ experience after registration with HPCSA as
Paramedic. Registered Paramedic (NDip) - 17 years’ experience after
registration with HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered ECP’s -10 years’
experience after registration with HPCSA as an ECP. Knowledge of Advanced
121
Life Support protocols within the Paramedic/ ECT scope of practice. A valid
code 10 driver’s licence with PDP.
DUTIES : Render Emergency Medical Care and transportation of patients at an
Advanced Life Support level and be prepared to work in the Aeromedical and
Rescue environments. Provide effective pre-hospital Emergency Medical Care
and response to incidents when required. Complete and analyze Patient
Report Forms for all category of personnel. Ensure effective supervision and
maintenance of Emergency Vehicles and equipment in line with the Financial
and Fleet directives. Maintain a clean and infection free environment for
emergency vehicles and equipment in line with the Infection Control Policy.
Ensure effective report writing with regards to accident and incident reports,
loss and theft control incidents and safety incidents. Ensure effective
communication concerning patients, colleagues, other services, and members
of the Public. Supervise and manage rostered shifts and personnel in line with
People Management policies and practices. Provide effective administrative
support to the Supervisor when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Praim Tel No: (039) 797 6070 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/180 : PARAMEDIC GRADE 1-3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/PAR-CH/MIN/22/11/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R321 372 - R381 012 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R397 308 - R468 600 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R487 014 - R556 854 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 4: R570 267 – R643 155 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District EMS
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Successful completion of the Critical Care Assistant Programme
(CCA) that allows registration with HPCSA as a Paramedic. Registration with
HPCSA as a Paramedic. None after registration with HPCSA as a Paramedic.
Grade 2: Successful Completion of the following courses or obtaining of the
following qualification that allows registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic:
Critical Care Assistant (CCA Qualification) or recognised National Diploma.
Registration with HPCSA as a Paramedic with CCA or a National Diploma. 7
years’ experience after registration with HPCSA as Paramedic (CCA). None
after registration with HPCSA as a paramedic (National Diploma). Grade 3:
Successful Completion of the following courses or obtaining the following
qualification that allows registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic: Critical
Care Assistant (CCA Qualification) or recognised National Diploma or
successful completion of a BTech Degree that allows registration with HPCSA
as an Emergency Care Practitioner (ECP). Registration with HPCSA as
Paramedic (CCA OR NDip) or ECP. Registered Paramedic (CCA) -14 years’
experience after registration with HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered
Paramedic (NDip) - 7 years’ experience after registration with HPCSA as
Paramedic. Registered ECP’s - None after registration with HPCSA as a
paramedic. Grade 4: Successful Completion of the following courses or
obtaining the following qualification that allows registration with the HPCSA as
a Paramedic: Critical Care Assistant (CCA Qualification) or recognised
National Diploma or successful completion of a BTech Degree that allows
registration with HPCSA as an Emergency Care Practitioner (ECP).
Registration with HPCSA as Paramedic (CCA OR NDip) or ECP. Registered
Paramedic (CCA) -24 years’ experience after registration with HPCSA as
Paramedic. Registered Paramedic (NDip) - 17 years’ experience after
registration with HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered ECP’s -10 years’
experience after registration with HPCSA as an ECP. Knowledge of Advanced
Life Support protocols within the Paramedic/ ECT scope of practice. A valid
code 10 driver’s licence with PDP.
DUTIES : Render Emergency Medical Care and transportation of patients at an
Advanced Life Support level and be prepared to work in the Aeromedical and
Rescue environments. Provide effective pre-hospital Emergency Medical Care
and response to incidents when required. Complete and analyze Patient
Report Forms for all category of personnel. Ensure effective supervision and
maintenance of Emergency Vehicles and equipment in line with the Financial
and Fleet directives. Maintain a clean and infection free environment for
emergency vehicles and equipment in line with the Infection Control Policy.
Ensure effective report writing with regards to accident and incident reports,
loss and theft control incidents and safety incidents. Ensure effective
communication concerning patients, colleagues, other services, and members
122
of the Public. Supervise and manage rostered shifts and personnel in line with
People Management policies and practices. Provide effective administrative
support to the Supervisor when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Solomane Tel No: (045) 8071110/1101 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/181 : PARAMEDIC GRADE 1-3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/PAR-ORT/MIN/23/11/2025
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R321 372 - R381 012 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R397 308 - R468 600 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R487 014 - R556 854 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 4: R570 267 – R643 155 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District EMS
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Successful completion of the Critical Care Assistant Programme
(CCA) that allows registration with HPCSA as a Paramedic. Registration with
HPCSA as a Paramedic. None after registration with HPCSA as a Paramedic.
Grade 2: Successful Completion of the following courses or obtaining of the
following qualification that allows registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic:
Critical Care Assistant (CCA Qualification) or recognised National Diploma.
Registration with HPCSA as a Paramedic with CCA or a National Diploma. 7
years’ experience after registration with HPCSA as Paramedic (CCA). None
after registration with HPCSA as a paramedic (National Diploma). Grade 3:
Successful Completion of the following courses or obtaining the following
qualification that allows registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic: Critical
Care Assistant (CCA Qualification) or recognised National Diploma or
successful completion of a BTech Degree that allows registration with HPCSA
as an Emergency Care Practitioner (ECP). Registration with HPCSA as
Paramedic (CCA OR NDip) or ECP. Registered Paramedic (CCA) -14 years’
experience after registration with HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered
Paramedic (NDip) - 7 years’ experience after registration with HPCSA as
Paramedic. Registered ECP’s - None after registration with HPCSA as a
paramedic. Grade 4: Successful Completion of the following courses or
obtaining the following qualification that allows registration with the HPCSA as
a Paramedic: Critical Care Assistant (CCA Qualification) or recognised
National Diploma or successful completion of a BTech Degree that allows
registration with HPCSA as an Emergency Care Practitioner (ECP).
Registration with HPCSA as Paramedic (CCA OR NDip) or ECP. Registered
Paramedic (CCA) -24 years’ experience after registration with HPCSA as
Paramedic. Registered Paramedic (NDip) - 17 years’ experience after
registration with HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered ECP’s -10 years’
experience after registration with HPCSA as an ECP. Knowledge of Advanced
Life Support protocols within the Paramedic/ ECT scope of practice. A valid
code 10 driver’s licence with PDP.
DUTIES : Render Emergency Medical Care and transportation of patients at an
Advanced Life Support level and be prepared to work in the Aeromedical and
Rescue environments. Provide effective pre-hospital Emergency Medical Care
and response to incidents when required. Complete and analyze Patient
Report Forms for all category of personnel. Ensure effective supervision and
maintenance of Emergency Vehicles and equipment in line with the Financial
and Fleet directives. Maintain a clean and infection free environment for
emergency vehicles and equipment in line with the Infection Control Policy.
Ensure effective report writing with regards to accident and incident reports,
loss and theft control incidents and safety incidents. Ensure effective
communication concerning patients, colleagues, other services, and members
of the Public. Supervise and manage rostered shifts and personnel in line with
People Management policies and practices. Provide effective administrative
support to the Supervisor when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Mtimba Tel No: (047) 502 9000 or email:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/182 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST BASIC) GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/PAPB-MPD/MIN/39/11/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R264 750 – R298 482 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R306 411 - R324 117 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R330 540 – R375 381 per annum, (OSD)
123
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Mthatha Pharmaceutical Depot
REQUIREMENTS : As required by the training facility and the South African Pharmacy Council plus
post basic Pharmacist Assistant qualification that allows registration with SAPC
as Pharmacist Assistant (Post- Basic). Registration with the SAPC as
Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic). Grade 1: No experience required after
registration with the SAPC as Pharmacist Assistant (Post Basic). Grade 2: A
minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after
registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post Basic) with the SAPC. Grade 3: A
minimum of 13 years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after
registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post Basic) with the SAPC. Good
communication and interpersonal skills. Knowledge of relevant policies and
legislation which have an impact on pharmaceutical services, including
National Health Act, Good Pharmacy Practice standards, the Pharmacy Act 53
of 1974 as amended and the Medicine and related substance Act 101 of 1965,
occupational Health and Safety Act and Skills Development Act. Physically fit
and able to lift heavy boxes repeatedly, willingness to work in a temperature-
controlled environment (cold-rooms).
DUTIES : Support the warehouse supervisor/pharmacist in daily operations. Supervise
and perform the receiving, storage, issuing and distribution of pharmaceuticals
within the designated store, ensuring compliance with FIFO/FEFO stock
management principles. Assist in staff supervision, including SOP training,
disciplinary process, leave planning and time and attendance monitoring.
Participate in stock control processes, including cyclic count and the
preparation of the annual and bi-annual stock take. Assist in complaint
resolution from health facilities in line with SOPs. Ensure compliance with all
relevant legislation, SOPs, and quality standards (GPP, GDP, GWP, Pharmacy
Act, PFMA. Ensure Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) compliance,
including enforcement of wearing protective clothing and maintaining a safe
warehouse environment. Support performance management processes by
ensuring that performance reviews are completed as per schedule. Contribute
to the development of staff in the warehouse. Must be willing to rotate within
different sections of the Warehouse when operationally required.
ENQUIRIES : or e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/183 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST BASIC) GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/PAPB-PEPD/MIN/40/11/2025 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R264 750 – R298 482 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R306 411 - R324 117 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R330 540 – R375 381 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, PE Pharmaceutical Depot
REQUIREMENTS : As required by the training facility and the South African Pharmacy Council plus
post basic Pharmacist Assistant qualification that allows registration with SAPC
as Pharmacist Assistant (Post- Basic). Registration with the SAPC as
Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic). Grade 1: No experience required after
registration with the SAPC as Pharmacist Assistant (Post Basic). Grade 2: A
minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after
registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post Basic) with the SAPC. Grade 3: A
minimum of 13 years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after
registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post Basic) with the SAPC. Good
communication and interpersonal skills. Knowledge of relevant policies and
legislation which have an impact on pharmaceutical services, including
National Health Act, Good Pharmacy Practice standards, the Pharmacy Act 53
of 1974 as amended and the Medicine and related substance Act 101 of 1965,
occupational Health and Safety Act and Skills Development Act. Physically fit
and able to lift heavy boxes repeatedly, willingness to work in a temperature-
controlled environment (cold-rooms).
DUTIES : Support the warehouse supervisor/pharmacist in daily operations. Supervise
and perform the receiving, storage, issuing and distribution of pharmaceuticals
within the designated store, ensuring compliance with FIFO/FEFO stock
management principles. Assist in staff supervision, including SOP training,
disciplinary process, leave planning and time and attendance monitoring.
Participate in stock control processes, including cyclic count and the
preparation of the annual and bi-annual stock take. Assist in complaint
resolution from health facilities in line with SOPs. Ensure compliance with all
relevant legislation, SOPs, and quality standards (GPP, GDP, GWP, Pharmacy
Act, PFMA. Ensure Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) compliance,
124
including enforcement of wearing protective clothing and maintaining a safe
warehouse environment. Support performance management processes by
ensuring that performance reviews are completed as per schedule. Contribute
to the development of staff in the warehouse. Must be willing to rotate within
different sections of the Warehouse when operationally required.
ENQUIRIES : or e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/184 : EMERGENCY CARE OFFICER GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ECO/NMM/MIN/41/11/2025 (X40 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R187 488 – R214 368 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R217 983 - R286 521 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro EMS
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: National Senior Certificate, Successful completion of an appropriate
Basic Life Support (BLS) course that allows registration with HPCSA as Basic
Ambulance Assistant (BAA). Registration with the HPCSA as BAA. None after
registration with the HPCSA as BAA. Knowledge of Basic Life Support
protocols. A valid code 10 driver’s license with PDP. Grade 3: Successful
completion of an appropriate Intermediate Life Support (ILS) course that allows
registration with HPCSA as an Ambulance Emergency Assistant (AEA).
Registration with the HPCSA as AEA. Experience: None after registration with
HPCSA as AEA. Knowledge of Intermediate Life Support protocols. A valid
code 10 driver’s license with PDP.
DUTIES : Render Emergency Medical Care and Transportation of the sick and injured
according to HPCSA protocols. Handle Basic administration, patient records,
vehicle checklists, log sheets and other necessary administrative duties.
Maintain and clean all equipment, vehicles and base stations. Undertake inter-
facility transfers of patients. Any other duties assigned by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Davids Tel No: (041) 391 8164 or email:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/185 : EMERGENCY CARE OFFICER GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ECO/BCM/MIN/42/11/2025 (X24 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R187 488 – R214 368 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R217 983 - R286 521 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro EMS
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: National Senior Certificate, Successful completion of an appropriate
Basic Life Support (BLS) course that allows registration with HPCSA as Basic
Ambulance Assistant (BAA). Registration with the HPCSA as BAA. None after
registration with the HPCSA as BAA. Knowledge of Basic Life Support
protocols. A valid code 10 driver’s license with PDP. Grade 3: Successful
completion of an appropriate Intermediate Life Support (ILS) course that allows
registration with HPCSA as an Ambulance Emergency Assistant (AEA).
Registration with the HPCSA as AEA. Experience: None after registration with
HPCSA as AEA. Knowledge of Intermediate Life Support protocols. A valid
code 10 driver’s license with PDP.
DUTIES : Render Emergency Medical Care and Transportation of the sick and injured
according to HPCSA protocols. Handle Basic administration, patient records,
vehicles checklists, log sheets and other necessary administrative duties.
Maintain and clean all equipment, vehicles and base station. Undertake inter-
facility transfers of patients. Any other duties assigned by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Jaceni Tel No: (043) 7433 006/057 or email:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/186 : EMERGENCY CARE OFFICER GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ECO/AMH/MIN/43/11/2025 (X32 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R187 488 – R214 368 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R217 983 - R286 521 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Amathole EMS
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: National Senior Certificate, Successful completion of an appropriate
Basic Life Support (BLS) course that allows registration with HPCSA as Basic
Ambulance Assistant (BAA). Registration with the HPCSA as BAA. None after
registration with the HPCSA as BAA. Knowledge of Basic Life Support
protocols. A valid code 10 driver’s license with PDP. Grade 3: Successful
completion of an appropriate Intermediate Life Support (ILS) course that allows
125
registration with HPCSA as an Ambulance Emergency Assistant (AEA).
Registration with the HPCSA as AEA. Experience: None after registration with
HPCSA as AEA. Knowledge of Intermediate Life Support protocols. A valid
code 10 driver’s license with PDP.
DUTIES : Render Emergency Medical Care and Transportation of the sick and injured
according to HPCSA protocols. Handle Basic administration, patient records,
vehicles checklists, log sheets and other necessary administrative duties.
Maintain and clean all equipment, vehicles and base station. Undertake inter-
facility transfers of patients. Any other duties assigned by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Njokweni Tel No: (043) 707 6748 or email:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/187 : EMERGENCY CARE OFFICER GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ECO/ORT/MIN/44/11/2025 (X48 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R187 488 – R214 368 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R217 983 - R286 521 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : EMS OR Tambo, Mthatha Station
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: National Senior Certificate, Successful completion of an appropriate
Basic Life Support (BLS) course that allows registration with HPCSA as Basic
Ambulance Assistant (BAA). Registration with the HPCSA as BAA. None after
registration with the HPCSA as BAA. Knowledge of Basic Life Support
protocols. A valid code 10 driver’s license with PDP. Grade 3: Successful
completion of an appropriate Intermediate Life Support (ILS) course that allows
registration with HPCSA as an Ambulance Emergency Assistant (AEA).
Registration with the HPCSA as AEA. Experience: None after registration with
HPCSA as AEA. Knowledge of Intermediate Life Support protocols. A valid
code 10 driver’s license with PDP.
DUTIES : Render Emergency Medical Care and Transportation of the sick and injured
according to HPCSA protocols. Handle Basic administration, patient records,
vehicles checklists, log sheets and other necessary administrative duties.
Maintain and clean all equipment, vehicles and base station. Undertake inter-
facility transfers of patients. Any other duties assigned by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Mtimba Tel No: (047) 502 9000 or email:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/188 : EMERGENCY CARE OFFICER GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ECO/ALF/MIN/45/11/2025 (X32 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R187 488 – R214 368 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R217 983 - R286 521 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo EMS
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: National Senior Certificate, Successful completion of an appropriate
Basic Life Support (BLS) course that allows registration with HPCSA as Basic
Ambulance Assistant (BAA). Registration with the HPCSA as BAA. None after
registration with the HPCSA as BAA. Knowledge of Basic Life Support
protocols. A valid code 10 driver’s license with PDP. Grade 3: Successful
completion of an appropriate Intermediate Life Support (ILS) course that allows
registration with HPCSA as an Ambulance Emergency Assistant (AEA).
Registration with the HPCSA as AEA. Experience: None after registration with
HPCSA as AEA. Knowledge of Intermediate Life Support protocols. A valid
code 10 driver’s license with PDP.
DUTIES : Render Emergency Medical Care and Transportation of the sick and injured
according to HPCSA protocols. Handle Basic administration, patient records,
vehicles checklists, log sheets and other necessary administrative duties.
Maintain and clean all equipment, vehicles and base station. Undertake inter-
facility transfers of patients. Any other duties assigned by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Praim Tel No: (039) 797 6070 or email:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/189 : EMERGENCY CARE OFFICER GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ECO/SBD/MIN/46/11/2025 (X24 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R187 488 – R214 368 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R217 983 - R286 521 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman EMS
126
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: National Senior Certificate, Successful completion of an appropriate
Basic Life Support (BLS) course that allows registration with HPCSA as Basic
Ambulance Assistant (BAA). Registration with the HPCSA as BAA. None after
registration with the HPCSA as BAA. Knowledge of Basic Life Support
protocols. A valid code 10 driver’s license with PDP. Grade 3: Successful
completion of an appropriate Intermediate Life Support (ILS) course that allows
registration with HPCSA as an Ambulance Emergency Assistant (AEA).
Registration with the HPCSA as AEA. Experience: None after registration with
HPCSA as AEA. Knowledge of Intermediate Life Support protocols. A valid
code 10 driver’s license with PDP.
DUTIES : Render Emergency Medical Care and Transportation of the sick and injured
according to HPCSA protocols. Handle Basic administration, patient records,
vehicles checklists, log sheets and other necessary administrative duties.
Maintain and clean all equipment, vehicles and base station. Undertake inter-
facility transfers of patients. Any other duties assigned by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Sulo Tel No: (041) 408 8509.or email:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/190 : EMERGENCY CARE OFFICER GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ECO/JGQ/MIN/47/11/2025 (X24 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R187 488 – R214 368 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R217 983 - R286 521 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi EMS
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: National Senior Certificate, Successful completion of an appropriate
Basic Life Support (BLS) course that allows registration with HPCSA as Basic
Ambulance Assistant (BAA). Registration with the HPCSA as BAA. None after
registration with the HPCSA as BAA. Knowledge of Basic Life Support
protocols. A valid code 10 driver’s license with PDP. Grade 3: Successful
completion of an appropriate Intermediate Life Support (ILS) course that allows
registration with HPCSA as an Ambulance Emergency Assistant (AEA).
Registration with the HPCSA as AEA. Experience: None after registration with
HPCSA as AEA. Knowledge of Intermediate Life Support protocols. A valid
code 10 driver’s license with PDP.
DUTIES : Render Emergency Medical Care and Transportation of the sick and injured
according to HPCSA protocols. Handle Basic administration, patient records,
vehicles checklists, log sheets and other necessary administrative duties.
Maintain and clean all equipment, vehicles and base station. Undertake inter-
facility transfers of patients. Any other duties assigned by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J.S Ndzinde Tel No: (051) 633 9631 or email:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 42/191 : EMERGENCY CARE OFFICER GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ECO/CRI/MIN/48/11/2025 (X24 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R187 488 – R214 368 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R217 983 - R286 521 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Chris Hani EMS
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: National Senior Certificate, Successful completion of an appropriate
Basic Life Support (BLS) course that allows registration with HPCSA as Basic
Ambulance Assistant (BAA). Registration with the HPCSA as BAA. None after
registration with the HPCSA as BAA. Knowledge of Basic Life Support
protocols. A valid code 10 driver’s license with PDP. Grade 3: Successful
completion of an appropriate Intermediate Life Support (ILS) course that allows
registration with HPCSA as an Ambulance Emergency Assistant (AEA).
Registration with the HPCSA as AEA. Experience: None after registration with
HPCSA as AEA. Knowledge of Intermediate Life Support protocols. A valid
code 10 driver’s license with PDP.
DUTIES : Render Emergency Medical Care and Transportation of the sick and injured
according to HPCSA protocols. Handle Basic administration, patient records,
vehicles checklists, log sheets and other necessary administrative duties.
Maintain and clean all equipment, vehicles and base station. Undertake inter-
facility transfers of patients. Any other duties assigned by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Solomane Tel No: (045) 807 1110/1101. or email:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
127
ANNEXURE P
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Free State Department of Agriculture and Rural Development is an equal opportunity affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representativity (race, gender and disability) in the Department
through the appointment of members to the Glen College Advisory Board and candidates whose
appointment will promote representativity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications, Quoting the reference number, must be forwarded to Mrs S
Hlekiso, Private Bag X02, Bloemfontein, 9301 or delivered by Hand to Mrs S
Hlekiso in Room 228, 2nd Floor, Admin Building, Glen. Email:
cpswarts17@gmail.com
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
NOTE : Nominations for candidates/Applications must be accompanied by a
comprehensive curriculum vitae, accurately detailing the qualifications, copies
of academic qualifications, professional membership (if applicable), relevant
experience and the identity document. Applicants must clearly indicate the
reference number of the Advisory Board that is being applied for on the
covering letter of the application. Only short-listed candidates will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following an invitation from the Department to
attend an interview, and such qualifications and other related document(s)
should be in line with the requirements of the advertisement. Qualification
certificates must not be copies of certified copies. Applications received after
the closing date and those that do not comply with these instructions will not
be considered. The onus is on the applicants to ensure that their applications
are emailed or hand delivered timeously. Candidates who possess foreign
qualifications and/or short courses certificates must take it upon themselves to
have their qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). Dual citizenship holder must provide the Police Clearance certificate
from country of origin when shortlisted. All non-SA citizens will be required to
submit a copy of proof of South African permanent residence when shortlisted.
Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal
record, financial checks, qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference
checks and employment verification). Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3)
months after the closing date of this advertisement, please consider your
application as unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to make
any appointment(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered. The
Department does not accept applications via fax. Glen College of Agriculture
under the Free State Department of Agriculture and Rural Development is an
institution of Higher Learning that facilitates and provides structured agricultural
education and training in line with Agricultural Education and Training (AET)
strategy. The Glen College executes its mandate within the prescripts of the
Higher Education Act 101 of 1997, which requires that the institution should
appoint members to serve on the Glen College Advisory Board.
OTHER POST
POST 42/192 : GLEN COLLEGE ADVISORY BOARD: DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO: FSGCB 07/11/2025
(Three years from 01 December 2025 until 30 November 2028)
Re-advertisement, Candidates who previously applied do not have to re-apply.
The Glen College of Agriculture hereby invites nominations/applications for the
positions of six (6) external advisory board members who will be serving on the
Glen College Advisory Board and Advisory Board sub-committees on a part-
time basis.
SALARY : Glen College Advisory Board sitting (inclusive of preparation) in accordance
with Treasury Regulations Section 20.2.3. Subsistence and travelling
allowances when attending College Advisory Board activities and meetings will
be paid by the Department in accordance with the applicable guidelines.
CENTRE : Glen College of Agriculture
REQUIREMENTS : The nominee / applicant must have suitable experience or expertise. Diversity
and demographics of South Africa shall be taken into consideration during the
128
selection process. Moreover, the below categories will be considered in order
to cater for the three Advisory Board sub-committees i.e. Human Resources
and Ethics Committee, Finance and Audit Committee and a Senate Committee.
Candidates will be recruited from the following categories: Individuals who hold
a PhD degree in Agriculture or in Education with a minimum of ten (10) years’
working experience in governance structures of academic institutions and must
be currently working in an Institution of Higher Learning. Individuals who hold
a minimum of a degree in Accounting or Finance or Economics or Auditing or
Business Administration. Individuals with extensive farming experience or an
active role player in the agricultural sector or Glen College alumni. In addition,
applicants/nominees must be permanent residents of the Free State Province
and be a fit and proper person. Two candidates will be selected under each of
the three categories. Thus two Advisory Board members will serve in each of
the three sub-committees.
DUTIES : The College Advisory Board will direct, guide and advise on the following: The
implementation and revision of the Glen College of Agriculture strategy to
ensure execution of strategic goals as approved by the MEC through Head of
Department of Agriculture and Rural Development; Matters concerning the
College but fall within the powers of the Executive Authority; Agricultural
training and fundraising strategy of the College to the Department; Creation of
conducive learning and teaching environment for the academic programmes
of the College; Ensuring that the College operates within a national mandate
and also reflect regional diversity by responding to unique agricultural
production imperatives; Ensures that the College establishes Committees;
Ensures involvement of students in the governance and operations of the
College; Monitor and evaluate use of funds and resources to ensure prudent
utilization in accordance with PFMA; Ensure development of strategic,
operations, and risk management plans; Ensure monitoring and evaluation of
strategic, operations, and risk management plans; Ensures the development
and offering of academic programmes in line with standards set by different
academic bodies; Ensures that the College keeps a database of all registered
learners/beneficiaries; Ensures that the College register all qualified diplomats
and graduates to the National Learners Register of SAQA; Ensure that the
College keeps a traceability record of all learners registered or previously
registered with the College; Advise the Department on appointment of
Principal; Recommend approval of policies and strategic plan of the College to
the Department; Report quarterly to the Chief Director and HOD; Advise on the
development of business models for the College to be financially viable and
self-sustainable; Advise on the development of a marketing strategy;
Promotion of good governance and accountability; and Promotion of
intergovernmental relationships.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Swarts at 083 406 9787
NOTE : Members of the Advisory Board will be appointed either (1) in their personal
capacities (2) to represent their relevant organizations and must broadly
represent South African Society. Confirmation of the availability of the nominee
is also required. Preference will be given to candidates whose appointments
will enhance representativity.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on new Z83 form. “Applicants are advised that
until 31 December 2020 the current application for employment (Z83) form will
be applicable, however from 1 January 2021, a new application for employment
(Z83) form will be effective. Should an individual wish to apply for a post on or
after 1 January 2021, he/she will be required to submit the new application for
employment form which can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies.
From 1 January 2021 should an application be received using the incorrect
application for employment (Z83), it will not be considered.”. Applicants are not
required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on
application but must submit the Z83 and detailed Curriculum Vitae. Therefore,
only shortlisted candidates for a post will be required to submit certified
documents on or before the day of the interview following communication from
HR. Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered. The
129
Department does not accept applications via fax or email. Failure to submit all
the requested documents will result in the application not being considered.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
qualification verification and employment verification). Where applicable,
candidates will be subjected to a skills/knowledge test. Successful candidates
will be appointed on a probation period of 12 months. The Department reserves
the right not to make any appointment(s) to the above post. The successful
candidate will be expected to sign a performance agreement. The Department
of Health is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer. The employment
decision shall be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department.
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this post(s) with a candidate whose transfer / promotion /
appointment will promote representativity in line with the numerical targets as
contained in our Employment Equity Plan
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 42/193 : CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 266 714 - R1 492 122 per annum (Level 13), all -inclusive package consists
of 70% basic salary and 30% flexible portion that be structured in terms of the
applicable rules, Medical Aid (Optional) Employee must meet the prescribed
requirements.
CENTRE : Bongani Regional Hospital Ref No: H/C/8/2025 (X1 Post)
Mofumahadi Manapo Regional Hospital Ref No: H/C/9/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate undergraduate qualification
(NQF level 7) in a Health/Social Science or related field or 4-year degree in an
appropriate management field as recognized by SAQA. Minimum of 10 years
experience in public health sector. At least 5 years’ experience at a
middle/senior managerial level or Employment Equity EEA, DDA. Successful
completion of the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government, available as an online course
on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme/, prior
to finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS positions. 138 The
course is available at the National School of Governance (NSG) under the
name “Certificate for entry into the SMS” and the full details can be sourced
from the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-
preentry-programme/. All costs associated herewith are the responsibility of the
applicant). Experience: Appropriate experience and a proven track record in all
major aspects of management within a healthcare environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid driver’s license. Willingness to travel across the
province as required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strong corporate
management skills within a health service environment. Policy implementation
and guidelines development. Strong business orientation with the proven skills
and ability in the financial management of health services. Open-minded and
the ability to accommodate diverse views. Innovative, creative and lateral
thinker. Ability to think fast, decisively and appropriately to rapidly changing
situations. Adaptive leadership capabilities. High level of computer literacy, with
proficiency in MS Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint, internet-based
applications, and email communication.
DUTIES : Plan, direct, co-ordinate, manage Health Care and Administrative support
service effectively and efficiently as an integral part of the health service
delivery in the area served by the hospital. Represent the hospital authoritative
at Provincial and Public Forums. Prepare a Business Plan for the hospital to
ensure that is in line with the departmental strategic plan. Plan, co-ordinate and
ensure the effective and efficient overall management of the hospital in terms
of relevant acts and delegation. Human Resource Management. Procurement
and Management of equipment and facilities. Corporate Governance.
Implement and manage an information technology policy, systems and
procedures to support the effective and efficient delivery of services. Manage
all aspects of patient care and ensure health, safety, welfare of patient and
quality improvement. Ensure comprehensive compliance with standards to
provide quality care. Serve on various internal and external committees, and
130
provide input into the development of Provincial policy and strategy on the
provision of health/medical care.
ENQUIRIES : Dr GM London Tel No: (051) 408 1846
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be send to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
OTHER POST
POST 42/194 : ASSISTANT MANAGER: PNA7(PHC) REF NO: MMD/ P/01/2025
SALARY : R755 355 per annum
CENTRE : Mangaung Metro District
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in Nursing or equivalent qualifications that allows registration
with SANC as a Professional Nurse. A post basic nursing qualification with a
duration of at least 1 year accredited with SANC, post basic qualification of
Clinical Nursing Science, health assessment, treatment and care (PHC), a
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with SANC as a Professional nurse. Atlest 6 years of the period
referred above must be appropriate /recognizable experience after obtaining
the 1year post basic qualification, at least 3 year of the period referred to must
be appropriate/recognizable experience at Management level. Proof of working
experience endorsed by HR (submitted only when shortlisted). Valid driver’s
license. Skills and Knowledge: Driving Skills. Verbal and written
communication, time management, good interpersonal relations. Ability to work
under pressure and deliver within tight deadlines, travelling extensively and
work extra hours, strong ability to build and work as a team member, computer
literacy, strong management and leadership. Coordinate, monitor and analyses
data quality assessment. Knowledge of financial management.
DUTIES : Support re-engineering of Primary Health Care to promote access to quality
health care service. Implement the assessments, compliance and attainment
of ideal clinic status for all facilities in the Local Areas. Monitor performance of
key priority programs according to APP and AOP targets. Management of key
priority programs. Work as part of a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good
quality of care across all disciplines. Perform quality improvements audits and
surveys and report Senior Management and multidisciplinary health team. To
monitor and evaluate delivery of quality of health care within the Facilities.
Provide advice on various aspects of quality care within the entire district.
Provide monthly reports to supervisors and Senior Management. Monitor
clinical and non-clinical on regular basis to ensure compliance to processes.
Represent the entire district at the Provincial Quality, Finance and key priority
program forums.
ENQUIRIES : Mr WA Malete, Assistant Manager: Admin and Support, Cell: 0832712534.
Email: MaleteWA@fshealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be done at: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment.
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
APPLICATIONS : applications for the Department of Public Works and Infrastructure to be
submitted to: Head: Public Works and Infrastructure, P.O Box 7551,
Bloemfontein, 9300 or Applications that are hand delivered must be brought to
the Foyer of O.R Tambo House where they must be placed in the appropriately
marked box at: Security Ground Floor, O.R Tambo House, St. Andrews Street,
Bloemfontein. No applications will be accepted by staff in offices in the building.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
NOTE : Directions to applicants: Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed
Z83 application form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at http://www.info.gov.za. The Z83 should be completed in a manner
that allows the selection committee to assess the application based on the
information provided on the form. Applicants are not required to submit copies
of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit
the Z83 and detailed Curriculum Vitae. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates
for a post will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day
of the interview following communication. If the certified copies contradict the
details on the CV or Z83 form, the candidate will automatically be disqualified
and removed from the shortlist. Should an applicant possess a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). Failure to
submit the requested documents will result in the application not being
131
considered. Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in
their applications. Should an applicant wish to apply for more than one post,
separate applications must be submitted i.e. all the documentation must be
submitted for each post applied for. Applications received after the closing date
and those that do not comply with these instructions will not be considered.
Candidates requiring additional information regarding the advertised post
should direct their enquiries to the relevant person as indicated in the
advertisement. Note: Short-listed candidates will on the day of interview
undergo a security assessment. Suitable candidates will be subjected to
personnel suitability checks as deemed appropriate and inclusive inter alia of
criminal record check, citizenship verification, financial/asset record checks,
qualification/study verification and previous employment verification. If you
have not been contacted within 4 months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Faxed
or late applications will not be accepted.
OTHER POSTS
POST 42/195 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: PWI 25/39 (X1
POST)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year Bachelor’s degree or equivalent NQF level 7 qualification with
Risk Management, Auditing/ Internal Auditing as a major and valid driver’s
license. 2-3 years’ experience in Risk Management, Auditing/ Internal Auditing.
Valid driver’s licence with exception of persons with disabilities. Experience in
the development and implementation of Risk Management systems/strategies
Experience of Risk Management soft-ware. Practical experience in a risk
management services.
DUTIES : To supervise and implement the risk management framework in the
organisation. Participate in the development of the risk management
framework. Implement the risk management plan. Support the establishment
of the risk management philosophy and culture in the organisation. Advocate
and promote risk management in the organisation (awareness activities). Risk
maturity – data gathering and quality review. Capacity building (training and
development). Develop and maintain stakeholder and client relationships.
Continuous monitoring the risk environment. Collect statistical information on
indicators of risks. Detect changes in the risk environment (internal and
external context). Supervise the capturing of data and maintenance of
databases on risk management information. Supervise and undertake studies
and analysis for identifying risks to establish the internal and external
organisation context. Supervise, facilitate and advice on the risk management
assessment process. Facilitate the identification of risks. Analysis of risks. Risk
evaluation. Risk response. Compile risk profile (ensure and maintain risk
register). Compile reports as required. Monitor and review the identified risk
response activities. Monitoring the implementation of the progress of activities
to address risks as agreed on. Revising risk response activities. Supervise
employees to ensure an effective risk management service. This would, inter
alia, entail the following. General supervision of employees. Allocate duties and
perform quality control on the work delivered by supervisees. Advice and lead
supervisees with regard to all aspects of the work. Manage performance,
conduct and discipline of supervisees. Ensure that all supervisees are trained
and developed to be able to deliver work of the required standard efficiently
and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PT Tshitannye, Tel No: (051) 492 3844
APPLICATIONS : Email address: e-recruitmentfspwi03@fsworks.gov.za
POST 42/196 : INTERNAL AUDITOR REF NO: PWI 25/40 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A degree in Auditing/Accounting or equivalent NQF 7 qualification. Good
understanding of the audit process and audit approaches. Good
communication (verbal and written) skills. Effective report writing. Computer
literacy. 3 years Internal Audit experience. Registration with the IISA and/or
knowledge of Teammate will serve as an advantage.
132
DUTIES : Assist the audit managers in the development of audit plans. Execution of the
audit programmes on control and governance processes associated with the
activities under review. Participate in entrance and exit conference meetings.
Compilation of adequate audit working papers as well as review of junior
officials’ work. Perform audits of the department in accordance with the audit
methodology. Documenting field work on audits. Assisting in ensuring effective
and efficient audits by keeping time records. Execute compliance audits.
Prepare and present reports on compliance audits. Conduct follow up audits.
Summarise audit findings and develop conclusions on audit findings for
presentation to clients. Supervise and transfer auditing skills to Internal
Auditors.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Mocwaledi Tel No: (051) 492 3817
APPLICATIONS : Email address: e-recruitmentfspwi02@fsworks.gov.za
POST 42/197 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: MUNICIPAL SERVICES – UTILITIES
DIVISION REF NO: PWI 25/41 (X3 POSTS)
Directorate Operational Property and Housekeeping
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : NQF 4 (Grade 12 or equivalent). No previous experience required. Computer
literacy. Good verbal and written communication skills. Planning and
organization skills.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services: Ensure the processing of property
rates payment. Monitor and reconcile debtors register and PASTEL to ensure
correct monthly rental invoicing. Capturing monthly rental invoices on the
PASTEL system in line with the signed lease agreements. Request BAS report
on a weekly basis to confirm payments received. Allocation of cash receipts on
PASTEL system as reflected on BAS report. Compiling debtor’s reconciliations
between PASTEL and BAS based on payments received. Liaising with the
relevant departmental Salary sections to ensure that all PERSAL deductions
are correctly implemented in line with signed stop orders. Follow up on
outstanding debt in terms of the approved debtors Management and write off
in terms of Debt policy.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Du Plessis Tel No: (051) 410 7517
APPLICATIONS : Email address: e-recruitmentfspwi@fsworks.gov.za
POST 42/198 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION –
DEBTORS SECTION REF NO: PWI 25/42 (X1 POST)
Directorate Operational Property and Housekeeping
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : NQF 4 (Grade 12 or equivalent). No previous experience required. Computer.
DUTIES : Provide financial administration support services within rates and taxes
component: Handling accounts of Eskom, water Boards, Municipalities and
other suppliers. Advice and report to management regarding the state of
services accounts. Monitor expenditure. Check payment documents with
spreadsheet which is developed internally. Request outstanding invoices from
the suppliers at least 10 working days before due date. Ensure the monthly
reconciliation of municipal accounts in respect of service accounts. Prepare
payment batches for processing on BAS and LOGIS. Capture approved
payment batches on BAS and LOGIS. Ensure the sound management and
control of the services accounts. Accruals and payables for discloser of
financial statements. Ensure the allocation of budgets to correct items, request
allocation for the following year and adjustment budget.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Ndenze Tel No: (051) 410 7541
APPLICATIONS : Email address: e-recruitmentfspwi@fsworks.gov.za
POST 42/199 : SECRETARY: DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING REF NO: PWI 25/43
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of an appropriate NQF 4 but preferably a
Post Matric qualification. Secretarial and typing experience. Knowledge of
telephonic etiquette. Records Management and Office administration.
Language skills and the ability to communicate well with people at different
133
levels. High level of reliability. Basic written communication skills. Computer
literacy. Sound organizing skills. Good people skills. Ability to act with tact and
discretion. Good grooming and presentation.
DUTIES : Receives telephone calls and refers the calls to the correct role players if not
meant for the Director. In the process the jobholder should finalise some
enquiries. Records the engagements of the Director. Compile realistic
schedules of appointments. Types documents for the Director and other staff
within the unit. Operates and ensures that the office equipment, e.g
photocopier and shredding machine are in good working order. Provide a
clerical support to the Director. Liaise with travel agencies to make travel
arrangements. Checks the arrangements when the relevant documents are
received. Arranges meetings and events for the Director and the staff in the
unit. Identifies venues, invite role players, organises refreshments and sets up
schedules for meetings and events. Processes the travel and subsistence
claims for the unit. Process all invoices that emanate from the activities of the
work of the Director. Records basic minutes of the meetings of the Director
where required. Drafts routine correspondence and reports. Does filing of
documents for the Director and the unit where required. Administers matters
like the leave registers and telephone accounts. Receives, records and
distributes all incoming and outgoing documents. Handles the procurement of
standard items like stationary, refreshments, etc. Collects all relevant
documents to enable the Manager to prepare for meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Ms IG De Beer Tel No: (051) 492 3749
APPLICATIONS : Email address: e-recruitmentfspwi01@fsworks.gov.za
134
ANNEXURE Q
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF E-GOVERNMENT
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of the
positions with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line
with the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan. To facilitate this process
successfully, an indication of race, gender, and disability status is required.
APPLICATIONS : Manual applications should be delivered to: Gauteng Department of e-
Government, Imbumba House, 75 Fox Street, Marshalltown, or Applicants can
apply online at: jobs.gauteng.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the recent Z83 form (obtainable from any
Public Service department or on the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents).
Only an updated comprehensive CV (with detailed personal information,
duties, experience and references) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required for both online and manual applications. The Z83
form must be completed in full, and page 2 duly signed. An accurate position
and reference number must be indicated on the Z83 form. All fields of Section
A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the
limited space on the Z83 it is acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV
or see attached. However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-
appointment under Part “F” must be answered and declaration signed.
Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other
related documents. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders in
possession of foreign qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation
report issued by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (only when
shortlisted). Failure to submit the requested information will result in the
application not being considered and deemed a regret. Shortlisted candidates
must be available for interviews at a date and time determined by the Gauteng
Department of e-Government. The appointment is subject to positive outcomes
on employment suitability checks, which include but are not limited to security
clearance, security vetting, qualification/study verification, citizenship
verification, financial/asset record check, previous employment verification,
and criminal record. Successful candidates must obtain a positive security
clearance. Applications received after the closing date as well as those who do
not comply with the requirements will not be taken into consideration. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate’s suitability based on the
posts technical and generic requirements. Please note that all applicants for
Senior Management positions are required to complete the SMS Pre-Entry
Programme administered by the National School of Government (NSG). No
appointment will take place without the successful completion of the pre-entry
certificate and submission of proof thereof. The Course is available at NSG
under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the full details can be
sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/smspre-entry-programme/. For
more information regarding the course please visit the NSG website:
www.thensg.gov.za. Following the interview process, recommended candidate
(s) will be required to attend to generic SMS competency assessment as
mandated by DPSA. If you have not received a response from this institution
within three months of the closing date, please consider your application
unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s).
OTHER POSTS
POST 42/200 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DEBT MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/023181
Chief Directorate: Human Resources Services – Debt Management
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification in Financial Accounting/Financial Management at NQF level 7 as
recognized by the SAQA. 3 years of experience at supervisory (Assistant
Director) level within debt management environment. Training required: Debt
135
administration and collection process. Management and leadership training.
Knowledge required: Understanding e-GOV and GPG business. Public Service
Act and regulations. National Credit Act. Knowledge/data management. Debt
Management knowledge of IFRS, IAS and GAAP. Debt collections processes
and legal. Legal prescripts. Sound Microsoft office computer skills. Treasury
Regulations. PFMA. Understanding of Public Sector revenue collection
processes. Fully conversant with the acceptable accounting standards.
Understanding, interpretation, and application of the of legislative framework.
Skills required: Competency in financial information systems. Ability to apply
debt management policies and procedures. Leadership and interpersonal
skills. SAP system or ERP system. BAS, PERSAL and SAP. Bad debt
management & collection. Financial compliance and reporting. Conflict
management. Research analysis and methodology. Budgeting and Financial
management. Strong analytical skills. Impartiality and ability to implement.
Decision making. Attributes required: Planning and organising. Client
orientation and customer focus. Knowledge management. Team leadership.
Interpersonal Sensitivity. Good communicator (verbal and written) report
writing. Tact and Confidentiality. Consistently follow departments values and
goals. Communication and Customer relations.
DUTIES : Reduction of new and legacy debts as per the targets: Ensure timeous
allocation of newly taken on debts to be collected. Tracing of uncontactable
debtors escalated to the DD’s office. Calling debtors disputing their debts and
resolving them. Approve communication to be posted to debtors to ensure
correctness of the information. Verify debt statements, reminder letters and
letters of demand if no payments received. Monitor the sending out of AOD for
in-service employees and instating of instalments on PERSAL. Referral of
cases to the state attorney: Perform due diligence on memos before sent out
to client departments for legal costs approval and to the State attorney for
issuing summons. Continuous monitoring and control of progress through
consistent reports. Attend to inquiries received from the State attorney’s office
concerning the referred cases. Ensure compliance to quality assurance with
ISO 9001 standards. Ensure proper records keeping of all communication and
annexures received. Have regular meetings to discuss targets and devise
means to augment targets not met. Management of doubtful debts: Verify
prescribed cases, under R500, deceased and interest rates to approve for write
process initiation. Perform due diligence on memos and recommend write-off
to be send to the client departments for approval. Upon approval of memos by
the department, ensure accurate processing of status from doubtful to bad.
Monitor BAS exception of case status changed from active to doubtful. Ensure
record keeping i.e. approved memos, status reports. Ensure compliance to
quality assurance with ISO 9001 standards. Ensure BAS reconciled to the Debt
Collection system vis. versa. Administration of new debt, credit balances and
maintenance of Ledger accounts within the SLA: Quality assurance (Perform
due diligence on): Proper verification and confirmation of the processing of new
debt notification of mandates, received via ECM within the 3 days SLA (BAS,
PERSAL & SAP). Furthermore, it entails inspecting debts mandates,
compilation of checklist and verification forms. Validation of credits balances
on an aging analysis and reconciled with balances on debt suspense account.
Monitoring and confirmation of clearing and maintenance of Ledger accounts
(debt suspense) within the 2 days SLA timelines and that balances are zero by
the end of the month. Review monthly report for credit balances and suspense
accounts. Monitor processing of journals to off-set debts using leave gratuity
for ex-employees and use of credit note for Suppliers. Verify, correct, and sign-
off the following memos and ISO form related to: Credit refund to suppliers.
Credit funds to debtors. Credit refund to beneficiaries of the deceased. Credit
transfer from one debt to another and revenue. Ensure that internal controls
are adhered to in line with policies and procedures. Ensure management and
proper record keeping. Ensure timeous account’s reconciliation, maintenance
as well as making follow-ups with clients to ensure smooth book closure.
Management of staff: Review quarterly and yearly performance evaluation of
all subordinates. Assist with the educational or skills development of all
subordinates. Develop in-house training programs for indirect reports based on
training needs analysis. Assist in identifying any training requirements for all
staff and ensure continuous improvement and opportunities. Manage
continued staff development in line with the latest development in systems and
processes, reporting on tight timelines. Monitor leave monthly as per Leave
Policy. Monitor attendance of 8 ASDs, 44 Practitioners and 2 filing clerks.
136
Individual mentoring and coaching of staff. On-boarding and induction of new
staff members. Provide counselling on staff with performance challenges.
Management of Stakeholder relationship: Measure customer feedback by
means of customer feedback survey. Initiate and attend customer meeting/
visits quarterly Conduct trainings sessions. Ensure audit queries are attended
within agreed SLA timelines (AG, GAS, ISO). Prepare and supply monthly
management figures for reporting [management reports - OPSCOM, STRAT
REPORTS and BMT reports on request. Prepare and supply data to the
departments for inclusion in the Annual Financial Statements in accordance
with IFRSs (International Financial Reporting Standards), IAS (International
Accounting Standards) and GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Providing support to all external offices where revenue management
operations take place. Build and maintain sound relationships between internal
and external stakeholders (e-GOV directorates and GPT Fiscal policy, State
attorneys etc). Attend and participate in BMT on invitation. Initiate and attend
BEC meetings on invitation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Nonhlanhla Mabuza, Contact no: 0715490292
POST 42/201 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: ERP BASIS REF NO: REFS/ 023531
Branch: Information Communication Technology Shared Services (ICTSS) -
Applications Competency (ERP BASIS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification in Information Technology at NQF level 6 (National Diploma). 2-3
years’ experience in BASIS administration and Linux Server Operating system.
Training required: SAP BASIS academy Certified with SAP Database
administration in MSSQL or HANA. Knowledge of: General GPG business.
Government regulations, policies and procedures. General government sector
and organizational structure. Technical competencies: Adherence to ERP
standards and protocols. Expert ERP Basis knowledge and skills levels.
Delivery of an ERP project management service as per agreed Service Level
Agreements. SAP BASIS ACADEMY. MS Operating Systems experience.
Project Management. Change Management. Skills required: Communications
skill. Computer literacy. Interpersonal skills. Analytical. Report writing.
Planning. Organization. Attributes required: Be able to work under pressure.
Enable Diversity awareness. Inspire innovation within the organization.
Encourage teamwork. Should be cost conscious. Inspire to be quality oriented.
DUTIES : Conduct ERP Basis System monitoring and reporting: Check critical
transactions and report on issues found as per SAP best practice. Report on
backups and system uptime. Participate in the creation of required
documentation. Perform performance testing and validating of results through
reporting. Interpret of system performance statistics and adjustments to
maximize performance. Provide Administrative functions on the SAP and
Database system: Conduct upgrading, patching and administration of SAP and
DB systems. Running periodic functions, cleanups, and tasks. Participate in
the design and development of system changes. Assist in testing, modifying
and documenting system design. Provide a supportive role in all projects:
Facilitate in the determining and development of functional system
specifications, hardware and software specifications. Assist in setup,
configuration and administrating the software to enable functional teams to
replicate the necessary business processes for projects. Assist the project
team to develop migration programs for from old to new system platforms and
upgrades. Participate in ERP configuration expert consultations: Provide user
training as required after implementation of the system solution. Take part in
the project team in business process definition and modelling. Join the project
team in designing system solutions and strategies to satisfy the requirements
of the relevant customer departments. Contribute to the process of ERP
configuration, testing and development. Provide systems support: Support the
DB and Operating system of the SAP server. Patching and administration of
DB. Handling Calls and incidents logged for first level technical support on the
SAP applications systems. Supporting the multiple products from SAP we
currently have, and future new products installed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Sithembile Buthelezi at 071 548 8903
137
POST 42/202 : REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: REFS/022742
Branch: Corporate Management – Human Resource Administration & Payroll
Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 4/ Grade 12. No experience required. Knowledge of registry duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, and operate computer. Working
knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service. Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the
working environment. Skills: Computer (MS package). Planning and
Organizing. Good verbal and written communication skills. Interpersonal Skills.
Attributes: Decisive. Quality oriented. Innovative. Team Worker. Diversity
awareness. Customer focused. Flexible/change orient. Action Oriented.
DUTIES : Provide registry counter services: Receive, register, sort and file documents
systematically for easy retrieval. Responding to inquiries from external or
internal clients. Submitting WP1002 forms to GEPF satellite office. Retrieve
files requested by auditors within the specified SLA. Handle incoming and
outgoing correspondence: Tracking and tracing files. Transfer and collect files
of officials to and from other government departments. Render an effective
filing and record management service: Storing files numerically to facilitate
easy access. Opening and closing of files according to the records
classification system. Process documents for archiving and/ disposal: Retrieve
and prepare files that are due for archiving and disposal as per the National
Archives Act. Maintain records for all archived and transferred files. Use of
printers, computer, and MS Word software to compile reports: Provide monthly
reports to the supervisor. Make copies, scanning and digitizing paper
documents. Maintain records for all archived and transferred files.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Themba Psungo at 060 543 9098
POST 42/203 : SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: REFS/ 022744 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Corporate Management – Security Management
SALARY : R163 680 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10. Grade C – Security (grades) training at PSIRA registered /
recognized training centre. Valid PSIRA – Grade C. No experience required.
Knowledge of general government sector, organizational structure.
government regulations, policies and procedures. Knowledge of the access
control procedures. Knowledge of measures for the control and movement of
equipment and stores. Knowledge of prescribed security procedures (e.g.,
MIS, NISA, Protection of Information Act, etc.) and the authority of security
officers under these documents. Knowledge of the relevant emergency
procedure. Customer Management. Problem Solving. Skills: Communications
skills. Computer literacy. Interpersonal skills. Analytical. Report writing.
Leadership, Strategic, Planning. Organization. Attributes: Be able to work
under pressure. Should be decisive. Enable Diversity awareness. Inspire
innovation within the organization. Encourage teamwork. Should be cost
conscious. Inspire to be Quality Oriented.
DUTIES : Perform access control: Determine whether visitors have appointments/or the
service that the visitors require. Contact the relevant employee to confirm the
appointment or refer the visitor to the relevant service delivery point. Complete
or ensure that the admission control register is controlled. Issue control
documents/ cards as required. Escort visitors to the relevant employee/venues
where required. Operate X-Ray machine in the performance of access control
to detect unauthorized and dangerous equipment (e.g. firearms and knives)
where required. Utilize walk-through metal detector for the effectiveness of
access control. Ensure safety in the building and the premises: Undertake
building/premises patrol to identify and check: that doors and locked and
unlocked as required; that water leaks and taps are closed; fire hazards,
exposed electrical contacts and other fire hazards emanating from for instance
chemicals; lights, switch on and off as required, and suspicious objects and
packages. Apply emergency procedures (in situations like bomb scares, riots
etc.) and alert emergency and services department management. Monitor and
respond to alarm system. Ensure that equipment, documents, and stores do
not leave or enter the building or premises unauthorized: Complete or ensure
that registers to control the movement of equipment, stores and documents are
138
completed. Ensure that no equipment, stores and assets of the department
leave the building/ premises unauthorized. Inspect vehicles entering and
leaving the premises gather information and report on missing or stolen
equipment and stores. Handle documents at point of entry according to
classification and the prescripts. Operate control room security equipment’s:
Monitor all movements, events, and activities within the department's premises
using CCTV equipment’s. Ensure that security system is in good working
condition. Immediately report all incidents monitored, report to the supervisor.
Monitor all access points for effective access control. Report all identified non-
com. Ensure that all incidents are recorded in the occurrence book/registers:
Perform proper lockups for all offices and access points. Identify suspicious
conduct. Follow up on incidents. Report all the identified security breaches and
non-compliance to the Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Leon Steyn at 083 234 4399
DEPARTMENT OF SPORT, ARTS, CULTURE AND RECREATION
APPLICATIONS : applications must be emailed to: SACR.RecSMS@gauteng.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025 @ 16:00
NOTE : All attachments for online application via email must include an application form
Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the
correct job title in full as it is on the advert not abbreviations and the reference
number of the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email
address associated with the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot/Screenshot)
application will not be accepted. Failure to do so, your application will be
disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be
submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service
Department or on internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications
using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered.
Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own application form for
employment and must be fully completed, initialled and signed by the applicant
as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and sign the Z83 form will
lead to disqualification of the application during the selection process. All fields
of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G
(Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is acceptable for applicants to indicate
refer to CV or see attached. However, the question related to conditions that
prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must be answered and declaration
signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience
if any) and a completed and signed new Z83 application form is required. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from Human Resources and such qualification(s)
and other related document(s) will be in line with the requirements of the advert.
Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The
Department does not accept applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply
with the abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well as applications
received late will not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested
documents (new Z83 and CV) will result in the application not being
considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only.
Some shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as
part of the assessment method to determine the candidate’s suitability based
on the posts’ technical and generic requirements. If you have not been
contacted within three (03) months after the closing date of this advertisement,
based on the unfolding recruitment and selection processes, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). Please note by
responding to the advertisement, you consent to the collection, processing, and
storing of your Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your information will be used solely for the
purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with third parties without prior
consent unless required by law. The Department reserves the right not to make
any appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s). The successful candidate
will be required to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative action
139
employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform the
employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race,
gender and disability) through the filling of these post(s). Successful completion
of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela) is required before
the appointment can be made for Senior Management posts. Enrolment for the
course should be made on the NSG’s website at
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme suitably
qualified, dynamic, passionate, and experienced qualifying persons are invited
to apply for the vacant position
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 42/204 : DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: REFS: SACR/02/2025/06
Directorate: Financial Accounting
(05 years contract)
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have Grade 12 certificate plus an
undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in B. Com Accounting, Auditing /
Financial Management / Supply Chain Management / Management Accounting
as recognized by SAQA. 5 years’ experience in middle management/ senior
managerial level and relevant experience in financial environment. SMS Pre-
entry Certificate (Nyukela) submitted prior to appointment. A valid driver’s
license. Skills: Communication both verbal and written. Analytical. Report-
writing. Research. Computer literacy (MS Teams). Planning and Organization.
Presentation and training. Problem Solving. Negotiation. Decision making.
Resilience. Self-motivation. Interpersonal skills. Customer service. Knowledge:
Government Financial Management Systems and PERSAL. Cash Basis of
Accounting (MCBA). Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Treasury
Regulations and related Treasury Instruction notes and guidelines.
Government Supply Chain Management procedures and the Division of
Revenue Act.
DUTIES : Manage the development, review, and implementation of financial accounting
systems, policies, and procedures in line with the relevant legislation and
regulations. Manage the planning and preparation of financial statements,
ensure accurate financial statement disclosure. Perform strategic and
operational planning. Monitor compliance with financial prescripts and ensure
that invoice payments are processed within 15 and 30 days in line with
GDSARC Annual Performance Plan (APP) and Treasury regulations. Monthly
and quarterly reporting on unauthorized, irregular, and fruitless expenditure.
Manage resources (Human, Financial, Equipment/Assets).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ouwen Gaveni Tel No: (011) 355 2861 / 071 855 8934 or Ms. Itumeleng
Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
140
ANNEXURE R
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Agriculture and Rural Development is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer and is committed to the promotion of diversity and equity in employment. Women and people
living with disabilities are highly encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applications submitted electronically
will be taken as a final application and may not be amended or supplemented
in any way after the closing date indicated in the advertisement.
All applications must be addressed to the Head of Department and for
reference numbers starting with SSC may be hand delivered or couriered to 4
Pin Oak Avenue, Hilton, 3245. Applications may also be posted to Private Bag
X6005, Hilton, 3245. Applicants may also submit their completed and signed
Z83 application forms and CV’s directly to the following email addresses:
kznjobssouth@kzndard.gov.za for reference numbers starting with SSC.
Applicants are discouraged from sending applications through registered mail
because the Department will not be responsible for non-collection of these
applications.
All applications for reference numbers starting with NSC may be hand
delivered or couriered to Lot no. 11634, Corner of Via Verbena and Loop Street,
Veldenvlei, Richards Bay, 3900. Applications may also be posted to Private
Bag X1048, Richards Bay, 3900. Applicants may also submit their completed
and signed Z83 application forms and CV’s directly to the following email
addresses: kznjobsnorth@kzndard.gov.za for reference numbers starting with
NSC. Applicants are discouraged from sending applications through registered
mail because the Department will not be responsible for non-collection of these
applications.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
NOTE : Applicants using the manual application process must submit their applications
on the prescribed form Z83 (Please use the New Z83 form which is effective
from 01 January 2021) obtainable from any Public Service Department or at
www.dpsa.gov.za and all applications must be accompanied by a
comprehensive CV. Applicants must ensure that the Z83 application form is
completed in full, duly signed and initialled, as failure to do so may lead to
disqualification of the application during the selection process. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other
related/supporting documents on or before the day of the interview following
the communication from Human Resources. Applicants may also visit any one
of our Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) where our friendly staff
will assist you with applying online or receiving your hardcopy application. You
can find the list of Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). No late applications will be accepted. Failure to comply with the above
instructions will result in the disqualification of your application. If you have not
been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of the
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department of Agriculture and Rural Development reserves the right not to fill
any advertised post. Invited candidates will attend interviews at their own cost
due to budgetary constraints.
OTHER POSTS
POST 42/205 : CHIEF ENGINEER REF NO: SSC40/2025
SALARY : R1 266 450 per annum, all-inclusive salary OSD package
CENTRE : Head Office - Cedara
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor of Engineering or a BSc Engineering Degree (Agricultural
Engineering or Civil Engineering) and a valid driver’s licence. Compulsory
registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineer. Experience: 6 years’
relevant post qualification experience as a registered professional engineer
(Agricultural Engineering or Civil Engineering). Knowledge: Programme and
project management, engineering, legal and operational compliance,
engineering operational communication, process knowledge and skills,
141
maintenance skills and knowledge, mobile equipment operating skills,
engineering design and analysis knowledge, research and development,
computer-aided engineering applications, creating high performance culture,
technical consulting, engineering and professional judgement, Occupational
Health and Safety Standards, Labour Relations Act, Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Departmental HRM
and HRD Policies. Skills: Strategic capability and leadership, problem solving
and analysis, decision making, team leadership, creativity, financial
management, customer focus and responsiveness, communication, computer,
people management, planning and organising, conflict management,
negotiation, change management and writing.
DUTIES : Ensure the development and design of engineering infrastructure plans.
Maintain engineering operational effectiveness. Provide technical consulting
services on engineering related matters to minimise engineering risks. Provide
professional engineering advisory services. Manage the resources of the sub-
directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SE Ndlela Tel No: (033) 343 8024
POST 42/206 : SCIENTIFIC MANAGER GRADE A – ANALYTICAL SERVICES REF NO:
SSC41/2025
SALARY : R1 099 488 per annum, all-inclusive salary OSD package
CENTRE : Cedara Research Station
REQUIREMENTS : An M.Sc degree (NQF level 9) in Soil Science / Biochemistry / Microbiology /
Chemistry. Compulsory registration with SACNASP as a Professional Natural
Scientist. Experience: 6 years’ post qualification (M.Sc) natural scientific
experience. Knowledge: Occupational Health and Safety Standards, laboratory
management and flow, laboratory instrumentation maintenance, calibration
and troubleshooting, analytical chemistry, Labour Relations Act, Public Service
Regulations, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Departmental HRM and
HRD policies, agricultural research methodologies and application of practices
and techniques, scientific methodology and models, and legal compliances.
Skills: programme and project management, scientific methodology and
models, research and development, computer-aided scientific applications,
technical report writing, ability to create a high performance culture,
professional judgment, analytical skills and data analysis, policy development
and analysis, scientific editing and reviewing, communication skills at a
scientific and technical level and an informative level, scientific presentation,
mentoring, strategic capability and leadership, decision making, team
leadership, creativity, financial management, customer focus and
responsiveness, computer literacy, networking, planning, organizing and
execution, people management, problem solving and analysis.
DUTIES : Conduct research and development. Provide strategic leadership and direction
and to ensure the development and implementation of policies, systems and
procedures. Provide advice and ensure governance. Administer financial
resources. Manage Human Resources.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. FNP Qwabe Tel No: (033) 355 9365
POST 42/207 : PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER GRADE A/B/C REF NO: SSC42/2025 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : Grade A: R879 342 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD remuneration package)
Grade B: R990 669 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD remuneration package)
Grade C: R1 127 100 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD remuneration package)
CENTRE : Head Office - Cedara
REQUIREMENTS : A B. Engineering / BSc. Engineering degree in Agricultural Engineering or Civil
Engineering, compulsory registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineer
and a valid driver’s license. Experience: 3 years’ post qualification Agricultural
Engineering or Civil Engineering experience. Knowledge: Programme and
project management, engineering design and analysis knowledge, research
and development, computer-aided engineering applications, legal compliance,
technical report writing, creating a high-performance culture, professional
judgement, networking, Occupational Health and Safety Standards, Labour
Relations Act, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Basic Conditions
of Employment Act, Departmental HRM and HRD Policies. Skills: Decision
making, team leadership, analytical, creativity, self-management, financial
management, customer focus and responsiveness, communication, computer
142
literacy, planning and organising, conflict management, problem solving and
analysis, people management, change management, innovation and writing.
DUTIES : Develop and design engineering infrastructure plans. Conduct project
inspections and provide progress reports. Conduct research and development.
Promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound engineering
principles and code of practice. Perform administrative and related duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SE Ndlela Tel No: (033) 3438024
POST 42/208 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN GRADE A REF NO: SSC43/2025
(X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R551 493 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Harry Gwala, uThukela and uMzinyathi Districts
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Civil Engineering (NQF level 6), compulsory registration
with ECSA as an Engineering Technician and a valid driver’s licence.
Experience: Six (06) years’ post qualification technical agricultural or civil
engineering experience. Knowledge: Programme and Project Management,
engineering design and analysis knowledge, research and development,
computer-aided engineering applications, legal compliance, technical report
writing, Occupational Health and Safety Standards, National Water Act,
Legislation in terms of Water Act, Conservation of Agricultural Resources Act,
Labour Relations Act, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, Departmental HRM and HRD Policies, RSA
Constitution. Skills: Project planning and management, technical design and
analysis, presentation, research and development, technical consulting,
problem solving and analysis, decision making, teamwork, creativity, financial
management, customer focus and responsiveness, communication, computer,
planning and organising, people management, presentation, conflict
management, HR Management, literacy, language, listening, analytical
thinking, interpersonal relations, research and time management.
DUTIES : Manage and control the planning and design of infrastructure, irrigation and
mechanisation. Provide technical advisory services. Monitor and evaluate
district engineering projects. Manage the resources of the division.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SE Ndlela Tel No: (033) 3438024
POST 42/209 : CONTROL SCIENTIFIC TECHNICIAN GRADE A: AGRONOMY REF NO:
SSC44/2025
SALARY : R551 493 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Cedara Research Station
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma/ Diploma in Crop Sciences (NQF level 6), compulsory
registration with SACNASP as a Certificated Natural Scientist and a valid
driver’s licence. Experience: 6 years’ post qualification experience in an
agricultural scientific environment. Knowledge: Occupational Health and
Safety Standards, Labour Relations Act, Pubic Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Departmental HRM and
HRD Policies, sound understanding of agricultural research methodologies
and application of practices and techniques, scientific methodology and
models. Skills: Analytical and data analysis, research and development, writing
of scientific papers, technical reports and popular articles, scientific editing and
reviewing, programme and project management, scientific presentation,
computer aided scientific applications, policy development and analysis,
leadership, mentorship, conflict management, financial management, planning
and organizing, analytical, problem solving and analysis, creativity, decision
making, change management, customer focus and responsiveness,
communication, innovation, computer literacy, customer focus and
responsiveness, networking and creating a high performance culture.
DUTIES : Conduct research and development. Oversee, develop and implement
methodologies, policies, systems and procedures. Lead the coordination and
development of databases, procedures and regulatory frameworks. Provide
strategic leadership on technical scientific matters. Manage resources of the
division.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. FNP Qwabe Tel No: (033) 355 9365
143
POST 42/210 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SALARY ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
SSC45/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office - Cedara
REQUIREMENTS : An Advanced Diploma / Degree (NQF level 7) qualification in Financial
Management and a valid driver’s license. Experience: 3 – 5 years’ supervisory
experience or 3 – 5 years’ experience at the level of an Administrative Officer
in Financial Management. Knowledge: RSA Constitution, Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulations, PFMA, Labour Relations Act, EPMDS, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, National and Provincial Practice Notes,
National Treasury Regulations, PERSAL, BAS, Instruction Notes, Income Tax
Act and National Interventions. Skills: Financial Management, people
management, problem solving, time management, decision making, planning,
organizing, leadership, project planning, conflict management, communication,
interpersonal relations, policy analysis and development, management and
administration, motivational, computer and report writing.
DUTIES : Coordinate the adjustments/creation of certificates (TAX, IRP5, IT3a, etc.).
Facilitate and control BAS tax account and pay over to SARS and coordinate
the Annual Tax Reconciliation. Administration of departmental debts.
Coordinate and control salary administration. Provide advice and guidance and
input to policy. Manage resources of the division.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JE Joshua Tel No: (033) 355 9134
POST 42/211 : FINANCE CLERK SUPERVISOR: REVENUE CONTROL REF NO:
SSC46/2025
(Re-advertisement, previous applicants must please re-apply)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office – Cedara
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/National Senior Certificate (Matric) and a valid driver’s
licence. Experience: 3 years’ relevant experience. Knowledge: RSA
Constitution, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Basic Accounting
System (BAS), PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Batho Pele Principles, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act and Departmental Policies and SOPS. Skills:
Financial management, computer literacy – MS Office, communication (verbal
and written), leadership, problem solving, change management, presentation
and interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Verify receipts and deposits of state money. Verify all revenue registers and
suspense accounts. Render petty cash services to the Department. Perform
administrative and related functions. Supervise human resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs M Seethal Tel No: (033) 355 9127
POST 42/212 : FINANCE CLERK SUPERVISOR: BOOKKEEPING AND LOSS CONTROL
REF NO: SSC47/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office – Cedara
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/National Senior Certificate (Matric) and a valid driver’s
licence. Experience: 3 years’ experience in a Financial Accounting
Environment. Knowledge: RSA Constitution, Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, PFMA, National and Provincial Treasury Practice Notes, Treasury
Regulations, Division of Revenue Act, Batho Pele Principles, BAS, LOGIS,
PERSAL, Basic Conditions of Employment Act and Departmental Policies and
SOPS. Skills: Financial management, computer literacy, communication
(verbal and written), leadership, problem solving, change management,
presentation and interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Prepare monthly, quarterly and annual reports. Administer interdepartmental
claims. Administer the provision of loss control services. Administer financial
accounting transactions. Supervise resources of the division.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JE Joshua Tel No: (033) 355 9134
POST 42/213 : GENERAL ADMINISTRATION CLERK (SUPERVISOR) REF NO:
NSC22/2025 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : uMkhanyakude, King Cetshwayo, Zululand Districts
144
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/National Senior Certificate (Matric) and a valid driver’s
licence. Experience: 3 – 5 years’ clerical experience. Knowledge: Clerical
duties and practices as well as the ability to capture data, operating a computer
and collecting statistics, legislative framework governing the Public Service,
working procedures in terms of the working environment, Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulations, RSA Constitution, PFMA, HRM Policies, Finance
Policies. Skills: Computer, planning and organization, interpersonal relations,
language, flexibility, verbal and written communication, basic analytical
thinking, time management and reasoning.
DUTIES : Provide coordination of administrative financial support. Supervise and provide
supply chain and asset clerical support services within the component. Provide
HR Management support services. Provide record and administration clerical
support services. Provide auxiliary and receptionist support. Supervise human
resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TH Ngcobo Tel No: (035) 550 0210 (uMkhanyakude)
Mr SA Shandu Tel No: (035) 473 0402 (King Cetshwayo)
Mr MD Dlamini Tel No: (035) 874 9006 (Zululand)
POST 42/214 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT TO THE CHIEF DIRECTOR: AGRICULTURAL
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING INSTITUTES REF NO:
SSC48/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office - Cedara
REQUIREMENTS : A Secretarial Diploma or relevant equivalent qualification (one year
qualification) and a valid driver’s license. Experience: 3 years’ experience in
rendering support service to senior management. Knowledge: Public Service
Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Systems and Procedures, knowledge
on the relevant legislation, policies, prescripts and procedures, Financial
Administration and Office Administration. Skills: language, good verbal and
written communication, good telephone etiquette, computer literacy,
organisational, people, high level of reliability, ability to act with tact and
discretion, ability to do research and analyse documents and situations, good
grooming and presentation, self-management and motivation.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial and receptionist support service to the Chief Director.
Render administrative support duties. Provide support to the Chief Director
during meetings. Support the Chief Director with the administration of the
budget. Study the relevant Public Service and Departmental prescripts,
policies and other documents to ensure the application thereof is understood
properly.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. FNP Qwabe Tel No: (033) 355 9365
POST 42/215 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT TO THE DIRECTOR: AGRICULTURAL CROP
RESEARCH SERVICES REF NO: SSC49/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office - Cedara
REQUIREMENTS : A Secretarial Diploma or relevant equivalent qualification (one year
qualification) and a valid driver’s license. Experience: 3 years’ experience in
rendering support service to senior management. Knowledge: Public Service
Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Systems and Procedures, knowledge
on the relevant legislation, policies, prescripts and procedures, Financial
Administration and Office Administration. Skills: language, good verbal and
written communication, good telephone etiquette, computer literacy,
organisational, people, high level of reliability, ability to act with tact and
discretion, ability to do research and analyse documents and situations, good
grooming and presentation, self-management and motivation.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial and receptionist support service to the Director. Render
administrative support duties. Provide support to the Director during meetings.
Support the Director with the administration of the budget. Study the relevant
Public Service and Departmental prescripts, policies and other documents to
ensure the application thereof is understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. FNP Qwabe Tel No: (033) 355 9365
145
POST 42/216 : REGISTRY CLERK (SUPERVISOR): RECORDS MANAGEMENT REF NO:
NSC23/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : North Service Centre, Richards Bay
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/ National Senior Certificate (Matric). Experience: 3 – 5
years’ experience in a registry environment. Knowledge: National Archives Act,
KZN Archives Records Services Act. RSA Constitution, Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulations, PFMA, Labour Relations Act, EPMDS, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, Pubic Participation, National and Provincial
Practice Notes, SCM Practices and Procedures, Treasury Regulations,
Occupational Health and Safety Regulations, registry duties, practices as well
as the ability to capture data and operate a computer, storage and retrieval
procedures in terms of the working environment. Skills: Language, listening,
presentation, analytical thinking, interpersonal relations, computer, strategic
planning, organisational, research, financial management, time management,
report writing, problem solving, communication, be self-disciplined and have
the ability to work under pressure with minimum supervision, leadership,
people management, relationship management, people management and
diplomacy.
DUTIES : Supervise and provide registry counter services. Supervise the handling of
incoming and outgoing correspondence. Supervise and render an effective
filing and record management service. Supervise the operation and operate
office machines in relation to the registry function. Supervise the processing
and process documents for archiving and / or disposal. Supervise human
resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MN Mhlongo Tel No: (033) 355 9397
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, TOURISM AND ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS
APPLICATIONS : Applications may alternatively be forwarded to the Department of Economic
Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, Private Bag X9152,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200, OR hand delivered to the Ground Floor, 270 Jabu
Ndlovu Street, Pietermaritzburg, 3201 in the vacancy box provided for the
attention of Ms Nondumiso Buthelezi / Mr Sipho Zangwa. “Applicants are
encouraged to apply for posts through the KZN online e-Recruitment system
at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address: kznjobs@kznedtea.gov.za. Applicants may also visit
any one of our Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS), where our
friendly staff will assist you with applying online or receiving your hardcopy
application. You can find the Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS)
list at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.” Please note that applicants should only
use one of the following methods when applying for a post: Either through the
online e-recruitment system, emailing the Z83 and CV directly to the relevant
department, or submitting a hardcopy application as directed.
CLOSING DATE : 08 December 2025 (at 16h00). Applications received after the closing date and
time will not be considered.
NOTE : The Provincial Administration of KwaZulu-Natal is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer and women and people with disabilities are
encouraged to apply. The Department of Economic Development, Tourism, and
Environmental Affairs is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, and
preference will be given to suitably qualified candidates from designated
groups in terms of the Employment Equity Act, 1998. The Department reserves
the right not to make these appointments. All information submitted will be
treated as confidential. The Department reserves the right to withhold the filling
of the abovementioned posts at any time before an appointment. All
applications must be submitted on the new Application for Employment form
(Z83), which became effective from the 1st of January 2021, obtainable from
any Public Service Department or can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-
vacancies. The form must be completed in full, and the application form should
be initiated, signed, and dated. All required information on the Z83 must be
provided. Failure to complete or disclose all information will automatically
disqualify the applicant. The completed and signed Z83 must be accompanied
by an updated, detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV). Dates of starting and leaving
employment must be given as DD/MM/YYYY. Shortlisted candidates must
submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview, following
communication from Human Resources. Should an applicant have a foreign
146
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). It is the applicant’s responsibility
to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA). Applications submitted electronically will be taken as a final
application and may not be amended or supplemented in any way after the
closing date indicated in the advertisement. If you have not been contacted
within three (3) months after the closing date of the advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. Shortlisted candidates will be
required to undergo a competency test/technical exercise. Candidates are
discouraged from sending their applications through registered mail, as the
Department will not take responsibility for the non-collection of those
applications. The appointment is subject to a positive outcome obtained from
the State Security Agency to the following checks (security clearance,
qualification, citizenship, and previous employment verifications). The
Department will conduct reference checks with the HR of the current and or
/previous employer(s) apart from the referees listed. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidate/s to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive
on implementing competency-based assessment). The competency
assessment will test generic managerial competencies using the mandated
DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Before the appointment for SMS
positions, the appointee will be required to produce a Pre-entry certificate for
the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, a public service-specific
training program applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS. The
course is offered by the National School of Government (NSG). The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry, and the full details
can be obtained by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/smspre-entryprogramme.
Regrettably, due to excessive budget cuts, the Department is not in a position
to meet any travel and subsistence costs relating to recruitment processes.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 42/217 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL: TRADE, SECTOR AND TOURISM
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DDG -TST-DOM 01/NOV 2025
Business Unit: Trade, Sector, Tourism, and District Operations Management
SALARY : R1 813 182 - R2 042 535 per annum (Level 15), (all-inclusive salary package
to be structured under the rules of SMS)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Post Graduate Degree (NQF level 8) in Business Management/
Development Studies/Administration/ Policy/ Economic Development as
recognized by SAQA; ·Minimum of 8 years’ experience at a senior
management level within the sector / industrial and tourism development
environment; Completion of Nyukela Certificate for entry into the SMS (Senior
Management Service) submitted prior to appointment; and A valid driver’s
license. Skills, Training and Competencies: The successful candidate must
have an in-depth knowledge and insight of South African economic policy,
strategy, and legislation applicable to industry development, trade and
investment, tourism development and the district development model, South
Africa Trade Policy Framework; Trade and Investment Act; Business Act;
Investment Promotion Strategy; National Tourism Sector Strategy, Provincial
Tourism Master Plan; Tourism Act of 2014, KwaZulu/Natal Tourism Act of 1996
as amended. Also required is advanced knowledge and understanding of the
KZN economy, extensive knowledge of sustainable economic development,
economic empowerment and Economic Transformation prescripts - White
paper on the development and promotion of tourism Broad Based Black
Economic Empowerment Act (BBBEE); National Development Plan (NDP),
Industrial Policy Action Plan (IPAP), Provincial Industrial Development Strategy
(PIDS), Provincial Growth and Development Strategy (PGDS), Provincial
Spatial Economic Development Strategy (PSEDS); and knowledge of Global,
National, and Regional Economies. Knowledge and understanding of the
regulatory framework for the Public Service, e.g., the Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa, Public Service Act, PFMA, Treasury Regulations,
147
Public Service Regulations, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Labour
Relations Act, Risk management processes, ethics, and integrity management.
Good stakeholder coordination and engagement, Sound research, knowledge
management, and strategic, leadership, problem-solving, analysis, and
empowerment capabilities. Knowledge and understanding of the Public Sector
Employee Performance, Management, and Development System, knowledge
of the Security Management Act, Bill of Rights, Community Outreach, and
Public participation. Knowledge of monitoring and implementing government
programs and ensuring proper coordination with line managers at the Head
Office level. Ability to communicate with relevant stakeholders at all levels,
including Provincial Departments, Senior Management, Private Sector
Organizations, Media, International Organizations, and the General Public.
Business planning, Economic Modelling, strategy development, financial
management, computer literacy, policy and research, Programme and Project
management, report writing, and presentation skills.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and direction in the management and coordination
of Trade and Investment Promotion, Sector Development, Industry
Development, Tourism Development Services, and District Operations
Management offices in the KZN Province;·Oversee the formulation of
economic growth initiatives through the development of priority economic
sectors of the province and trade promotions; Oversee the provisioning and
facilitation of the development of strategic industrial interventions;·Oversee the
implementation of Integrated Aerotropolis Strategy (IAS) Programmes /
catalytic projects; Oversee and provide strategic leadership on tourism
development services; Oversee effective implementation of all services in the
districts and lead the implementation of transversal policies such as risk
management, GEYODI, OSS/ DDM; and Manage human, financial resources,
and assets of the various components within the Branch.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N B Nkontwana: Head of Department at 082 889 1819
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filing of this
post with a candidate whose transfer /promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : applications can be posted to McCord PEH, PO Box 37587, Overport, 4067 or
can be dropped off at the HR Department at Sinikithemba building. Applications
can be emailed to Manqoba.ngidi@kznhealth.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : HR Recruitment
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025 @ 15h00
NOTE : Applications should be submitted on form Z83, which must be fully completed,
from any Public Service. Department OR from the website
www.kznhealth.gov.za. The reference number must be indicated in the column
provided on form Z83 e.g. HR 01/2020. Faxed documents will not be accepted.
NB: Failure to comply with the above instructions will result in disqualification.
Please note that if you are not contacted within 3 months of the closing date,
your application is unsuccessful. Every shortlisted applicant will be advised of
the outcome of their application in due course. Please note that the successful
candidate will be subjected to a pre-employment screening and verification
process including CIPC (Companies Intellectual Property Commission)
screening. Due to financial constraints no S & T or relocation costs will be paid
for attending interviews. Copies of qualifications and other relevant documents:
Reference is made to Circular No.5 of 2021. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit the Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. In order to alleviate
administrative burden on Hr Sections as well as considering the cost for
applicants, Departments are encouraged to request certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents from short listed candidates only
which may be submitted to Hr on or before the day of interview. Departments
are required to consider including the matters articulated in paragraph 3 in
advertisements and accompanying notes, going forward.
148
OTHER POST
POST 42/218 : DISPENSING OPTICIAN REF NO: MCCORD PEH/D/O/10/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum. Other Benefits: 13th cheque, Home owners
allowance, Medical Aid and Pension. (conditions apply)
CENTRE : McCord Provincial Eye Hospital, Overport
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. National Diploma in Optical Dispensing /
Bachelor of Health Science in Opticianry, Current registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA), Code 8 drivers Licence, Ability
to perform all dispensing procedures and duties effectively and efficiently,
Knowledge of quality assurance including levels of lens tolerances in order to
meet clinical standards, Sound knowledge and understanding of Health
Professions Act, 1974 (ACT NO. 56 OF 1974), Good verbal, interpersonal and
communication skills, Be patient and tactful, Mechanical and technical aptitude,
Finger dexterity and a steady hand, Good eye-hand coordination and good eye
sight.
DUTIES : To carry out blocking, mounting, cutting and edging as well glazing spectacles,
minimum 11 lenses per person per hour, breakage maintenance of less than
1.1%, To support other functions within the Optical Lab/Optometry Department,
Performance of ocular measurements for the purpose of lens centration
(vertical, horizontal, binocular & monocular), Performance of facial/head
measurements for the purpose of correct frame selection and fitting.
Assessment of vertical distance and panoptic angle fitting. Analysis of the
prescription for the most appropriate lens and frame selection for the purposes
of prescribing the optimum lens/frame, To verify that finished lenses are ground
to specifications, To effectively manage stock control in the laboratory and
storeroom, To provide weekly and monthly stock statistics, To enter the figures
of the stock dispensed in the computer daily. To ensure that adequate stock is
available in the laboratory and is locked away all the time, Monitor functioning
of all equipment on a daily basis and to ensure that they are cleaned every
afternoon, Manage the eye clinic laboratory assets through regular updated
asset lists. To keep abreast of new developments in the field of Optician clinical
training and requirements so as to continuously improve performance in the
Department. To supervise student training as needed.
ENQUIRIES : Dr SR Naidoo Tel No: (031) 268 5701
149
ANNEXURE S
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Limpopo Department of Agriculture and Rural Development is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer with clear employment equity targets. Applications are hereby invited for the filling of the
vacant posts, which exist in the Limpopo Department of Agriculture and Rural Development. Women and
people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants using electronic format must quote the relevant reference number
on the application and apply on the following website:
https://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za and applicants submitting applications in a
printed hard copy (manual or hand delivery) must quote the relevant reference
number on the application and forward to the below address.
Head Office: Polokwane: The Head of Department: Limpopo Department of
Agriculture and Rural Development, Private Bag X9487, Polokwane, 0700 or
hand delivered to: Office 48, Temo Towers Floor 2, 67/69 Biccard Street,
Polokwane, 0699.
Capricorn District: The Director: Capricorn District, Limpopo Department of
Agriculture and Rural Development, Private Bag X28, Chuenespoort, 0745 or
hand delivered to: Block 28 Next to Traffic Government offices: Lebowakgomo.
Waterberg District: The Director: Waterberg District Limpopo Agriculture and
Rural Development, Private Bag X1048, Modimolle, 0510 or hand delivered to:
NTK Building, Modimolle, 0510.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 00:00 (online)
NOTE : It is compulsory for the applicant to complete all the mandatory fields of the E-
recruitment System. Once all the fields in an E-recruitment System are
completed, the applicant shall confirm that they understand that by applying
electronically, they agree that all the information presented is true, correct, and
legally binding. All applications submitted through an electronic format shall be
accepted as the final application and may not be amended or supplemented in
any way after the closing date indicated in the advertisement. Applicants
submitting applications in a printed hard copy (manual or hand delivery) must
utilize the most recent Z83 application for employment form as issued by the
Minister for the Public Service and Administration in line with Regulation 10 of
the Public Service Regulation, 2016, as amended, failure to do so will results
in disqualification. The Z83 form must be completed in a manner that provides
sufficient information about the candidate and the post he or she applies for by
completing all relevant fields. The declaration must be signed in order for an
applicant to be considered. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the new z83 form by the applicants: All the fields in Parts A, B,
C, and D must be completed. In Part B, all fields must be completed in full
except the following; South African applicants need not provide passport
numbers, If an applicant responds "no" to the question I' Are you conducting
business with the State or are you a Director of a Public or Private Company
conducting business with the State?" then the answer to the next question "In
the event that you are employed in the Public Service, will you immediately
relinquish such business interests?" can be left blank or indicated as not
applicable. A "not applicable" or blank response will be allowed on the question
"if your profession or occupation requires official registration, provide date and
particulars of registration”, if you are not in possession of such registration.
Noting there is limited space provided for Part E, F & G, applicants often
indicate "refer to Curriculum Vitae (CV) or see attached", this is acceptable as
long as the CV has been attached and provides the required information. If the
information required is not provided in the CV, the applicant may be
disqualified. It must be noted that a CV is an extension of the application of
employment Z83, and applicants are accountable for the information that is
provided therein. The question related to conditions that prevent re-
appointment under Part F must be answered (Applicants currently employed
by the public service do not need to complete the section). The application
must include only completed and signed Z83 form and a recently updated
comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience). Certified copies of
Identity Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as
well as a driver's license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the date of the interview date. The applicant
may submit additional information separately where the space provided on z83
form is not sufficient. Applicants who apply for more than one position are
150
requested to submit separate applications for each position they wish to apply
for. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only due to the
large number of applications we envisage to receive and if you have not heard
from us within 90 days of the closing date, please accept that your application
has been unsuccessful. However, should there be any dissatisfaction,
applicants are hereby advised to, within 90 days, request reasons from the
Department for any administrative action which has adversely affected them in
terms of section 5(1)(2) of the Promotion of Administrative Justice Act 3 of
2000. By virtue of applying, you are consenting that the department subject
you to personnel suitability checks e.g. the verification of educational
qualifications, previous experience, citizenship, reference checks, financial
checks and security vetting. Candidates with foreign qualifications are advised
to attach SAQA accreditation of their qualifications. As per DPSA directive on
human resources management and development for public service
professionalization volume 1, “All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and
the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment”. Note: Shortlisted
candidates for Senior Management Services (SMS) will be subjected to a
technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job,
the logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. Following the
interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in
compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-
based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
Assessment tool. In order to ensure that potential SMS members have a
background on processes and procedures linked to the SMS, a further
requirement for appointment at SMS level will be a successful completion of
the Senior Management pre-entry certificate/programme as endorsed by the
National School of Governance (NSC) with effect from 01st April 2020. This is
a Public Service specific training programme which will be applicable for
appointments at SMS level. The link for the completion of the SMS pre-entry
certificate is as follows: https://www.thensg.qov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entry-programme/. All short-listed candidates will be required to have
completed the pre-entry SMS certificate and submit such on the date of the
interview. Failure to comply with the above requirements will results in the
disqualification of the application. Successful incumbents will be expected to
sign a performance agreement within three months of the assumption of duty
and be required to disclose their financial interest in accordance with the
prescribed regulations. Failure to comply with the above requirements will
result in the disqualification of the application. The Department reserves the
right not to make any appointment for the advertised posts. The employment
decision shall be made by the Employment Equity Plan for the Department.
Note: Due to austerity measures, the department will not carry any related
costs (transport, accommodation, and meals) for candidates attending
interviews.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 42/219 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT AND FARMER
SUPPORT REF NO: LDARD 01/11/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), all-inclusive package to be structured in
terms of applicable rules and guidelines.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate Bachelor’s degree (NQF level 7) qualification in
Agriculture / Agriculture Extension or equivalent qualification as recognised by
the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). A Minimum of 5 years of
experience at a senior managerial level. A valid driver`s license (with exception
of people with disabilities). Proof of completion of SMS pre- entry certificate
must be submitted before appointed. Knowledge, Competencies, and Skills:
Extensive knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. In-depth knowledge and experience in
agricultural development management. Proven experience and thorough
understanding of Agriculture and Rural Development sector. Core
Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership. People Management and
empowerment. Programme and project management. Financial Management.
151
Change management. Process competencies: Knowledge Management.
Service delivery innovation. Problem solving analysis. Client orientation and
customer focus. Communication.
DUTIES : To manage, coordinate and provide strategic leadership and direction for the
provision of agriculture development and farmer support services. Provide high
level strategic leadership and direction on policy and programmes
development and implementation within the chief directorate. Coordinate and
promote the implementation of agricultural extension support, agricultural
development programmes and identified integrated food security strategy of
south africa initiatives. Manage and coordinate the provision of agricultural
advisory services to farmers within the districts. Establish and maintain good
relations within the department and all stakeholders. Manage and utilise
resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 42/220 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CORPORATE MANAGEMENT REF NO: LDARD
02/11/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with MMS dispensation.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate Bachelor’s degree (NQF level 7) qualification in
Business Administration / Public Administration / HRM or equivalent
qualification as recognised by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). A minimum of 5 years of experience at a senior managerial level.
Proof of completion of SMS pre- entry certificate must be submitted before
appointed. A valid driver’s licence (with exception of people with disabilities.
Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Extensive understanding and in-depth
knowledge of the legislative framework governing the Public Service. Proven
experience and knowledge in corporate services. Core Competencies:
Strategic capability and leadership, People Management and empowerment,
Programme and project management, Financial Management, Change and
management. Process competencies: Knowledge Management, Service
delivery innovation, problem solving analysis, client orientation and customer
focus, communication. Personal Attributes: Responsiveness; Pro-activeness;
Professionalism; Accuracy; Flexibility; Independent; Co-operative; Team
player; Supportive; Flexible. Willing to work under changing and difficult
circumstances.
DUTIES : To manage, coordinate and provide strategic leadership and direction for the
provision of corporate management services. Provide high level strategic
leadership and direction on policy and programmes development and
implementation within the Chief Directorate. Manage and coordinate the
provision of human resource management services. Manage and coordinate
the provision of human resource development and employee relations
services. Manage and coordinate the provision of employee health and
wellness services. Manage and coordinate the provision of security and
facilities management services. Establish and maintain good relations within
the department and all stakeholders. Manage and utilise resources (financial,
human and physical) in accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 42/221 : DIRECTOR: DISTRICT AGRICULTURAL ADVISORY SERVICES (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive package to be structured in
terms of applicable rules and guidelines.
CENTRE : Capricorn District Ref No: LDARD 03/11/2025 (X1 Post)
Waterberg District Ref No: LDARD 04/11/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate Bachelor’s degree (NQF level 7) qualification in
Agriculture / Agriculture Extension or equivalent qualification as recognised by
the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). A Minimum of 5 years of
experience at a middle/senior managerial level. A valid driver`s license (with
152
exception of people with disabilities). Proof of completion of SMS pre- entry
certificate must be submitted before appointed. Knowledge, Competencies,
and Skills: Extensive knowledge and understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service. In-depth knowledge and experience
in agricultural development management. Proven experience and thorough
understanding of agriculture and rural development sectors. Ability to work in a
highly pressured environment and driven by a sense of urgency to meet
deadlines. Core Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership People
Management and empowerment, Programme and project management.
Financial Management. Change and management. Process competencies:
Knowledge Management, Service delivery innovation, problem solving
analysis, client orientation and customer focus, communication. Willing to work
under changing and difficult circumstances.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate agricultural advisory services within the district. Ensure
management of agricultural extension and advisory services across the
agricultural development zones. Ensure provision of extension and advisory
services to promote livestock and crop development in the district. Ensure
provision and management of rural development facilitation and support
services. Manage the provision of corporate services. Ensure efficient and
effective implementation of financial management services in accordance with
relevant directives and legislation. Build sound and sustainable relationships
between the employer and the employees, representative bodies and all role-
players.
ENQUIRIES : Capricorn District: Ms Sebatjane LD Tel No: (015) 632 8609, Mr. Masera TN
Tel No: (015) 632 8625, Maredi RB (015) 632 8610
Waterberg District: Mr. Matjiu SK Tel No: (014) 717 4949 or Ms. Kekana RM
Tel No: (014) 717 1324
153
ANNEXURE T
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, LAND & ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS
DARDLEA is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. It is our intention to promote
representivity in DARDLEA through the filling of posts. Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
No Payment of any kind is required when applying for these positions.
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting relevant reference number should either be hand
delivered, posted or e-mailed to the following addresses:
For Head Office: to the Director: Human Resource Management &
Development, Samora Machel Building, Private Bag X11219, Riverside Park,
Mbombela, (1200) or Email: dardlearecruitment-ho@mpg.gov.za
For Nkangala District Office: to the District Director, Ebhudlweni Building,
Government Complex, Private Bag X4017, KwaMhlanga (1022) or Email:
dardlearecruitment-nka@mpg.gov.za Please ensure that you email your
application to the relevant email address.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : Applications must include only fully completed and signed new Z83 form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA web site link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ and a recent updated Curriculum
Vitae with full personal details, experience including three names of
contactable referees. Certified copies of Identity Document, Senior Certificate
and the highest required qualifications as well as a driver’s license where
necessary will only be submitted by shortlisted candidates to Human
Resources on or before the day of the interview date. Failure to do so will result
in the application being disqualified. Foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by SAQA. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to
provide proof of such evaluation (proof submitted only when shortlisted).
Applicants should ensure that they submit their applications on or before the
closing date as no late applications will be considered. If more than one
position is applied for, a separate application for each post should be
completed. Candidates on SMS and MMS posts will be subjected to a
competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments. All shortlisted candidates
shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment
method to determine candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and
generic requirements. The requirements for appointment at Senior
Management Service level include the successful completion of Senior
Management Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government. Candidate must provide proof of successful completion of the
course prior to appointment. Due to the large number of applications envisaged
to be received, applications will not be acknowledged. Should you not be
contacted within 3 months of the closing date of the advertisement, please
consider your application to be unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the
recruitment process, a moratorium is placed on the filling of posts or the
Department is affected by any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring
or reorganisation of posts, the Department reserves the right to cancel the
recruitment process and re-advertise the post at any time in the future. NB: The
Department reserves the right not to fill a position. Shortlisted candidates will
be required to be available for assessments and interviews at a date and time
to be determine by the Department. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected
to personnel suitability checks. The successful candidate will undergo security
vetting. DARDLEA will conduct reference checks which will include social
media profiles of the shortlisted candidates. Please note that by responding to
the advert, you consent to the collection, processing and storing of your
personal information in accordance with the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA). Your information will be used solely for the purpose of the
advertisement and will not be shared with third parties without prior consent
unless required by law. Applicants must declare any pending criminal,
disciplinary or any other allegations or investigations against them. Should this
be uncovered during / after the interview took place, the application will not be
considered and in the unlikely event that the person has been appointed such
appointment will be terminated. The successful candidate will be appointed
subject to positive results of the security clearance process. The successful
154
candidate will be required to enter into an employment contract and sign a
performance agreement with the Department.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 42/222 : DIRECTOR: ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/88
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : A Matric certificate with an appropriate Bachelor of Veterinary Science (BVSc/
BVMch) Degree NQF 7 or equivalent qualifications as recognised by South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Registered with the South African
Veterinary Council as a Veterinarian, and a Pre-entry certificate for senior
management service (Nyukela certificate) submitted prior to appointment. A
minimum of 5 years’ experience at middle management / senior managerial.
Valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of Public Service-
related Legislation. Implementation of Animal Diseases Act 35 of 1984, Animal
Welfare Act, Medicines and Related Substance Control Act 101 of 1965
Fertilizers, Farm feeds, Agricultural remedies and stock remedies Act 36 of
1947 and their relevant regulations. Implementation of Animal Identification
programme. Management of Animal Health programme and schemes.
Organising skills, programme and project management skills and financial
management skills. Good verbal and written communication skills. Must be
computer literate ((MS Word, Ms Excel, MS Power point).
DUTIES : Management of Animal Health Services in the Province. Management of
Animal Health Programmes including dipping, inspections, primary health care,
vaccination, disease surveillance and animal disease schemes. Ensuring
credible performance reporting of the Directorate. Management of Human
resource. Financial management of the Directorate. Ensuring all Facilities of
the Directorate are compliant with the South African Veterinary Council
Standards and Regulations. Management of import and Export function
rendered by the Directorate. Management of veterinary extension, liaison and
training. Management of logistics of the Directorate. Ensuring revenue is
collected and managed within the prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 42/223 : DIRECTOR: VETERINARY SPECIALISED SERVICES REF NO: DARDLEA
2025/11/89
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUREMENTS : A Matric certificate with an appropriate Bachelor of Veterinary Science (BVSc/
BVMch) Degree NQF or equivalent qualifications as recognised by South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Registered with the South African
Veterinary Council as a Veterinarian Pre-entry certificate for senior
management service (Nyukela certificate) submitted prior to appointment. A
minimum of 5 years’ experience at middle management / senior managerial
Valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: Understanding of Meat Safety
Act 40 of 2000, Animal Diseases Act 35 of 1984, Animal Welfare Act, Medicines
and Related Substance Control Act 101 of 1965 Fertilizers, Farm feeds,
Agricultural remedies and stock remedies Act 36 of 1947 and their relevant
regulations. Must have an understanding of accreditation and approval of
veterinary laboratories. Organising skills, project and programme management
skills and financial management skills. Good verbal and written communication
skills. Must be computer literate (MS Word, Ms Excel, MS Power point).
Knowledge of Public Service-related legislations.
DUTIES : Management of Veterinary Public Health, Veterinary Clinical Services,
Veterinary Laboratory Services and Veterinary Specialised. Ensure credible
performance reporting of the Directorates. Management of Human resource.
Financial management of the Directorate. Ensuring all Facilities of the
Directorates are compliant with the standards of the South African Veterinary
Council Standards and Regulation. Management of import and Export function
rendered by the Directorate. Management of veterinary extension, liaison and
training. Providing necessary support to other programmes in the Department.
Management of logistics of the Directorate. Ensuring revenue is collected and
155
managed within the prescripts. Management of Compulsory Community
Programme for Veterinary graduates in the province.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
OTHER POSTS
POST 42/224 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EVENTS MANAGEMENT REF NO: DARDLEA
2025/11/90
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate and an appropriate Bachelor’s Degree / Advanced
National Diploma or equivalent qualification in Communications Marketing/
Public Relations,/or Events Management. At least 3-5 years of junior
management experience at an Assistant Director level in an events
management or communications environment. Skills and Competencies:
Strong managerial skills: Planning, organizing, leading, and control. Excellent
communication (verbal and written), presentation, and facilitation skills. Project
and programme management skills. Problem-solving and analytical skills.
Computer literacy (advanced MS Office skills). Ability to work under pressure,
travel, and work irregular hours. A valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Plan, manage, and evaluate departmental strategic events in line with internal
policies and government protocols. Organise and mobilise all relevant internal
and external stakeholders for departmental activities and advocate for the
department's brand. Develop the annual events calendar and associated
procurement plans. Monitor and manage the budget and expenditure for all
events. Monitor and evaluate event outcomes and track progress of
stakeholder engagement. Provide written contributions to monthly, quarterly,
and annual departmental reports. Produce reports for events and outreach
programmes implemented. Ensure compliance with all relevant legislative and
regulatory frameworks. Manage human resources, including performance
assessment and development of staff within the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 42/225 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ANIMAL PRODUCTION REF NO: DARDLEA
2025/11/91
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUREMENTS : Grade 12 and an appropriate Bachelor’s Degree specialising in animal science,
a post graduate qualification in Animal Science will be an added advantage
Minimum 5 years experience at entry level management and experience in
project management, a valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies:
Demonstrate skills and knowledge of relevant legislation and regulations
governing the Public Service especially PFMA and Treasury regulations, Public
Service Act and the Labor relations Knowledge of relevant Acts, policies and
priories related to Animal Production/breeding, livestock development and food
security Understanding of poverty and food insecurity of the various
communities in the province Computer literacy and knowledge of basic
software like Ms Office (Ms Word, Ms Excel, Ms PowerPoint and Ms Outlook)
are required Excellent skills in communication, problem solving, people
management and capacity building Understanding and application Batho Pele
principles, Ability to work under pressure, work extended hours and undertake
travel
DUTIES : Planning, implementation and coordination of livestock development projects
to improve animal production in the province. Promote, support and monitor
ruminant production; and provide sustainable solutions for producers facing
challenges in their production Develop, review and implement policies relating
animal production and food security Liaison with internal and external
stakeholders including farmers and breeder societies to implement
departmental priorities aimed at improving the capacity of livestock farmers
Lead the sub directorate: Ruminants Production to achieve strategic objectives
and setting targets Manage the finances and human resources allocated,
mainly responsible for planning, budgeting, reporting and monitoring of
projects implemented Develop monthly, quarterly and annual reports for
156
Ruminants Productions Facilitate the commercialisation of livestock farming
and ensure support for relevant farmers with a potential to expand operations
Participation in various provincial structures that are addressing food security
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 42/226 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PROJECT MANAGEMENT SUPPORT UNIT REF
NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/92
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a SAQA recognized Bachelor's degree in
Agriculture / Agricultural Science/ Development studies/ Community
Development/ qualification in Public Administration/ Public management and
monitoring and evaluation/ Rural Development or any equivalent/ relevant
qualification. A minimum of 3 years’ experience in Agriculture/ project
management/ Rural Development. A valid driver’s license. Skills and
Competencies: Ability to plan, implement, monitor, and evaluate rural
development programs and projects. Excellent written and oral communication
skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Experience in managing project budgets,
financial performance, and allocating funds is essential. A strong
understanding of rural development dynamics, including agriculture, natural
resource management, and infrastructure development. Ability to analyse
challenges, identify solutions, and make informed decisions. Proficiency with
relevant software, such as MS Office and project management tools.
DUTIES : Develop and coordinate rural development plans. Ensure provision of support
to all departmental projects from inception until completion. Ensuring that
communities are well sensitized in the rural development space. Ensure that
there is proper alignment between projects implemented and the goal of the
directorate. Provision of necessary support to all rural development projects.
Coordinate the implementation of rural projects in the province, ensure that
beneficiaries are linked to different stakeholders, support beneficiaries of rural
development. Ensure that there is coordination between programs that work in
the rural space. Application of relevant legislations that talks to rural
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 42/227 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A: POLLUTION AND
WASTE MANAGEMENT REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/93
SALARY : R343 842 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala District
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate and an appropriate three-year tertiary qualification
in Environmental or Natural Sciences / Environmental Management/ Chemistry
/ Chemical Engineering. Bachelor of Science degree is added advantage.
Minimum of 2 years working experience in air quality management services or
environmental management. A valid drivers license. Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge and skills in formulating and writing of reports and scientific papers,
with specific reference to air quality related topics. Sound knowledge of air
quality or other environmental legislation, good knowledge of computer and
information systems as well as database management systems. Ability to work
under pressure and willingness to work long hours.
DUTIES : Provision of quality controlled and assured ambient air quality data and
information gathered by ambient air quality monitoring stations reporting to the
SAAQIS through the SAAQIS web site to government, business and industry,
academia, research institutes and the public. Development and presentation
of Air Quality Monitoring Reports to Mpumalanga Air Quality Officer’s Forum
and Highveld Priority Area Meetings. Compilation and submission of air quality
information for inclusion into the Annual Provincial State of the Air Report.
Prepare and present air quality management services information through
various projects including client liaison, research, development, equipment
installation, upgrading or maintenance of the scientific systems relevant to
specific Air Quality research fields. Report on the main issues, results and
recommendations emanating from the work done in a calendar month.
Participate in programs, projects or activities including training sessions and
157
seek opportunities for personal growth and development including but not
limited to publishing air quality-related articles.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. A Kekana at 079 6301770
POST 42/228 : LABOUR RELATIONS OFFICER REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/94
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate and an NQF Level 6 qualification in Labour
Relations/ BCom Law or equivalent. A minimum of 2 years’ experience in
Labour relations environment. An LLB qualification will be an added advantage.
A valid drivers license. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy and report
writing skills. Knowledge of prescripts and systems applicable in the Public
Service and Labour Relations Environment. Problem solving abilities. Conflict
management and good interpersonal relations. Ability to work under pressure
and willingness to work long hours.
DUTIES : Handling of matters pertaining to misconduct. Provide advice to management,
employees and organized labour. Investigate grievances and disputes.
Arrange grievance hearings and disciplinary hearings. Manage database of
grievances and dispute related matters. Write reports and provide statistics.
Implementation of the disciplinary code and procedures. Coordinate training of
employees on labour relations. Facilitate mandates for conciliations and
arbitrations. Strike management. Manage the resources of the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 42/229 : COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER: MEDIA LIAISON AND MONITORING REF
NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/95
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/ Degree in Communications /Journalism/Public Relations/ or
Equivalent qualification recognized by SAQA. The minimum of 1-2 years’ work
experience in the related field. Valid driver’s licence. Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of prescripts applicable in Public Service. Strong written and verbal
communication, and media relations expertise. Computer literacy, ability to
work under pressure and willingness to work long hours.
DUTIES : Conduct daily media monitoring and analysis and produce reports. Draft and
disseminate press releases. Write articles for publications and social media
platforms. Compile media coverage report after campaigns and events.
Organise media interviews. Invite various media houses and journalists to
events. Consolidate media attendance register after every event and update
the media database. Implement media plan for campaigns and events.
Organize and facilitate monthly editorial meetings. Increase social media
engagements through social media platforms.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 42/230 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/11/96
SALARY : R325 105 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala District
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification, such as a National Diploma or Degree, in
Accounting, Asset Management, or a equivalent field, this qualification must be
at a National Qualifications Framework (NQF) level 6 or higher. At least 2 years
of experience in a relevant financial role is generally required. Skills and
Competencies: Good communications and interpersonal skills, Computer
Literacy (Excel, Power Point and MS Word). Ability to work under pressure,
sense of responsibility and loyalty. Knowledge of transversal System: LOGIS
and BAS and Standard Chart of Accounts (SCOA).
DUTIES : Record new assets in the asset register and ensure they are bar-coded and
properly capitalized. Conduct regular physical asset verification, spot-checks,
and reconcile physical assets with the asset register. Manage the transfer of
assets between different organizational units. Maintain and update the
organization's asset registers, ensuring accuracy and data integrity. Ensure all
asset management activities comply with relevant legislation, policies, and
158
procedures. Manage the disposal of assets in line with organizational policies
and procedures, ensuring all steps are followed and documented. Compile
reports on the state of assets, including monthly verification reports and asset
tracking reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. A Kekana at 079 6301770
POST 42/231 : SECRETARY REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/97
Directorate: GITO
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Secretarial Diploma or equivalent qualification. Experience in rendering
secretarial/administrative support service will be an added advantage. Skills
and Competencies: Knowledge of Public Service legislative frameworks,
policies and processes. Good interpersonal and organizational skills. Good
communication skills (written and verbal). Advanced Computer literacy
packages such as Microsoft Excel, PowerPoint, MS Word, Group Wise Internet
etc.). Good research and analytical skills. Ability to work in a team and
independently. Willingness to occasionally work after hours when needed.
DUTIES : Overall management of the office administration functions in the Directorate.
Provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Senior Manager.
Compile realistic schedules of appointments. Provide administrative support
services in the Office of the Senior Manager. Provide support to senior
manager regarding meetings. Record minutes and communicates to relevant
role-players. Coordinate logistical arrangements for meetings when required.
Support the manager with the administration of the Office Budget. Collect and
coordinate all the documents that relate to the Director/Chief Director's budget.
Remain up to date with regard to the policies and procedures applicable to
senior manager work terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the
Senior Manager. Remain abreast with the procedures and processes that apply
in the office of the Director.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
POST 42/232 : SECRETARY REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/11/98
Directorate: Internal Audit
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Secretarial Diploma or equivalent qualification. Experience in rendering
secretarial/administrative support service will be an added advantage. Skills
and Competencies: Knowledge of Public Service legislative frameworks,
policies and processes. Good interpersonal and organizational skills. Good
communication skills (written and verbal). Advanced Computer literacy
packages such as Microsoft Excel, PowerPoint, MS Word, Group Wise Internet
etc.). Good research and analytical skills. Ability to work in a team and
independently. Willingness to occasionally work after hours when needed.
DUTIES : Overall management of the office administration functions in the Directorate.
Provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Senior Manager.
Compile realistic schedules of appointments. Provide administrative support
services in the Office of the Senior Manager. Provide support to senior
manager regarding meetings. Record minutes and communicates to relevant
role-players. Coordinate logistical arrangements for meetings when required.
Support the manager with the administration of the Office Budget. Collect and
coordinate all the documents that relate to the Director/Chief Director's budget.
Remain up to date with regard to the policies and procedures applicable to
senior manager work terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the
Senior Manager. Remain abreast with the procedures and processes that apply
in the office of the Director.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
DEPARTMENT OF CULTURE, SPORT AND RECREATION
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on the NEW prescribed Z83 application form
obtainable from any public service department. All section of the form must be
159
fully completed and duly signed. Please note the following important
guidelines: Z83 Form: All sections of the online Z83 form must be fully
completed also attach a detailed CV. Supporting Documents: Only shortlisted
candidates will be contacted. If shortlisted, you will be required to submit:
Certified copies of your qualifications, Your RSA ID document, Your Senior
Certificate and a valid driver’s license (where applicable). Application Details:
Applications must be sent in PDF format (maximum size: 5MB) only and
indicate in the email subject: Name of Post and Post Reference Number. One
post per application form. Failure to comply with the above instructions will lead
to automatic disqualification. Applications sent to the wrong e-mail address will
not be considered. Please note the following: The Department of Culture, Sport
and Recreation is an equal opportunity, Sport and Recreation to promote
representatives (race, gender and disability) in accordance with the
Employment Equity targets of the Department. Suitably qualified women and
persons with disabilities remain the targeted group and are encouraged to
apply. All appointments will be subjected to a personnel suitability check
processes (criminal record, qualification verification, citizenship and
employment reference). Applications received after the closing date or those
that do not comply with the requirements indicated above will not be
considered. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. For full details of the advertised posts, applicants are advised to
visit the Mpumalanga Department of Culture, Sport and Recreation, website:
https://dcsr.mpg.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 42/233 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SPORT & RECREATION GRANT MANAGEMENT
REF NO: DCSR/34/2025
(3 Year Contract)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : The candidate must be in a possession of a Matric and a Diploma or Bachelor’s
Degree in Public Administration, Business Administration, Financial
Management or equivalent qualification and a valid Driver’s license. Must have
3 years experience in the Grant Management, monitoring and evaluation, data
analysis tools. Knowledge of the PFMA, including their respective regulations.
Strong communication skills, interpersonal and organizational as well as the
ability to work independently and as part of a team and have knowledge of
supervision.
DUTIES : Managing the entire grant lifecycle, from application of Business Plan and
ensuring compliance with the grant terms / framework. Overseeing grant funds,
managing budgets and ensuring accurate and timely financial reporting.
Maintaining strong communication with program managers and stakeholders
including communicating grant updates, and outcomes. Tracking grant
performance, conducting monitoring visits, and evaluating the impact of grants
on sport and recreation initiatives. Contributing to the development of sport and
recreation programs, including identifying funding opportunities. Collection,
collating and analysing of data on relevant policies and regulations. Building
and maintaining relationships with Key Stakeholders including sport
organizations, government agencies and national government. Prepare
Departmental report on a monthly / Quarterly and Annual basis on the Grant
and program performance for reporting at National Level.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Samkelisiwe Lushaba-Mambane Tel No: (013) 766 5245
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 2, Mbombela or emailed to dcsrmborecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 42/234 : LANGUAGE PRACTITIONER: SISWATI REF NO: DCSR/35/2025
(Re-advert)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree/National Diploma in Languages or equivalent qualification with
specialization in Siswati as recognized by SAQA. Good command of English,
and Siswati (both written and verbal). Computer literacy. Competencies:
Knowledge of language rules, grammar and orthography. Knowledge of
160
Language Policies. Ability to work independently and under pressure. Capacity
to remain confidential. Computer Literacy. Written and verbal Communication
skills. Good interpersonal relations and ability to work as a team.
DUTIES : Translation and proof-reading of official documents. Provide interpreting
service when required. Conduct research on matters related to Translation,
Interpreting and Editing. Liaise with relevant stakeholders. Promote
multilingualism and indigenous languages including the South African Sign
Language. Support the Mpumalanga Provincial Language Committee.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Nontsikelelo Zwane Tel No: (013) 766 5085
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 2, Mbombela or emailed to dcsrmborecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 42/235 : SPORT & RECREATION - GRANT OFFICER REF NO: DCSR/36/2025
(3 Year Contract)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : The candidate must be in a possession of a Matric, a Diploma or degree in
Public Administration, Business Administration or B.Com in Management or
equivalent qualification and a valid driver’s license. Knowledge of Grant
management, monitoring and Evaluation, data analysis tools. Strong
communication skills, Interpersonal and organizational as well as the ability to
work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Track and monitor the performance of Sport and recreation program in line with
the target set. Prepare the Business plan and manage the consolidation of
operational plans, Management of performance information. Support
Managers with the development of activity Schedule and implementation
thereof, conduct reviews and evaluations on the implementation of Programs.
Provide support in the development /design of relevant indicators. Enforce
compliance of the DORA and PFMA within the program. Analyze report
data/report for accuracy, Link planning with programs; liaise with stakeholder’s
federations on matters of impact evaluations and compilation of the Conditional
Grant monthly /Quarterly reports. Conduct performance evaluations for the
Sport and Recreation programs.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Samkelisiwe Lushaba-Mambane Tel No: (013) 766 5245
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 2, Mbombela or emailed to dcsrmborecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 42/236 : CULTURAL OFFICER REF NO: DCSR/37/2025
(Re-advert)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree/National Diploma in Arts or equivalent qualification. Must
be Computer literate, willingness to travel extensively and a valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Identify, develop and promote (emerging) artists and crafters as well as
implanting projects related to performing and visual and craft. Create
awareness programmes for craft, performing and visual arts. Conduct needs
analysis and provide professional advice on performing, visual arts and crafts.
Render administrative functions in relation to the programmes that are
implemented.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Samkelisiwe Lushaba-Mambane Tel No: (013) 766 5245
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 2, Mbombela or emailed to dcsrmborecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 42/237 : SPORT PROMOTION OFFICER REF NO: DCSR/38/2025
(Re-advert)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Gert-Sibande Region
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree/National Diploma in Sport Management or equivalent
qualification and a valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Coordinate the establishment and provide support to sport and recreation
structures in schools, wards and local areas, in conjunction with stakeholders.
Facilitate sustainable capacity development programmes in sport within the
schools wards, local areas and districts. Implement sport and recreation
161
programmes in schools, wards and local areas for development of sport and
recreation. Monitor and evaluate the compliance with sport and recreation and
transformational policies. Render administrative function in relation to
programmes that are implemented.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Simon Shabangu Tel No: (017) 811 6196
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to 20A De Clerk Street Mutual & Federal
Building or emailed to dcsrgsrecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 42/238 : SPORT PROMOTION OFFICER REF NO: DCSR/39/2025
(Re-advert)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni Region
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree/National Diploma in Sport Management or equivalent
qualification and a valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Coordinate the establishment and provide support to sport and recreation
structures in schools, wards and local areas, in conjunction with stakeholders.
Facilitate sustainable capacity development programmes in sport within the
schools wards, local areas and districts. Implement sport and recreation
programmes in schools, wards and local areas for development of sport and
recreation. Monitor and evaluate the compliance with sport and recreation and
transformational policies. Render administrative function in relation to
programmes that are implemented.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Nqobile Tshuma Tel No: (013) 766 5656
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 2, Mbombela or emailed to dcsrmborecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 42/239 : MUSEUM HUMAN SCIENTIST REF NO: DCSR/40/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni Region: Pilgrim’s Rest Museum
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma/Bachelor’s Degree in Museum or Heritage studies. The
incumbent should have amongst other majors in History, Cultural History,
Anthropology or Cultural studies. A post graduate Diploma in Museum or
Heritage studies and a valid driver’s license will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Museum curation and collections management. Research into local history and
culture. Preservation of educational programmes, conversation and
preservation of historic building and artifacts, plan and maintain exhibitions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Nqobile Tshuma Tel No: (013) 766 5656
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 2, Mbombela or emailed to dcsrmborecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 42/240 : LIBRARY ASSISTANT/CYBER CADET REF NO: DCSR/41/2025
(Re-advert)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Ethandukhanya Public Library
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and Certificate in IT-related studies, good verbal and written
communication skills, understanding of troubleshooting and maintaining
Windows XP operating systems software. Experience in IT and of working in a
public library will be an added advantage. 190
DUTIES : To assist library users on how to do electronic information searches on CD and
DVD, encyclopaedia, Internet, do searches for school projects and assignment,
create e-mail accounts for library users, teach users how to connect to their
mail, teach users how to produce electronic documents and other documents
like CV’s, business cards. Monitor workstations usage by library users, help
users to do CV’s. Open files for projects, file them and update them.
Administration procedures relating to libraries; filing; shelving and storage of
library material; information retrieval processes; processing of library material
and assisting with other library functions as required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Simon Shabangu Tel No: (017) 811 6196
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to 20A De Clerk Street Mutual & Federal
Building or emailed to dcsrgsrecruit@mpg.gov.za
162
POST 42/241 : AUXILIARY SERVICE OFFICER (TOUR GUIDE) REF NO: DCSR/42/2025
(Re-advert)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni Region: Barberton Museum
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate and a Certificate in Tour Guide. The candidate should be a
registered Tour Guide with good communication skills and Valid driver’s
licence.
DUTIES : Conduct tours for tourist and learners. Be responsible for the preservation of
relevant historical collections. Supervise the maintenance of relevant historic
terrain. Participate in conducting museum outreach programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ncobile Tshuma Tel No: (013) 766 5656
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 2, Mbombela or emailed to dcsrmborecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 42/242 : ADMIN CLERK REF NO: DCSR/43/2025
(Re-advert)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande Region
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior certificate or equivalent qualification, computer literacy and a driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component. Provide personnel administration clerical
support services within the component. Provide financial administration
support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Simon Shabangu Tel No: (017) 811 6196
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to 20A De Clerk Street Mutual & Federal
Building or emailed to dcsrgsrecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 42/243 : CLEANER REF NO: DCSR/44/2025
(Re-advert)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Zithabiseng Public Library
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET level 4 certificate (Grade 9). Knowledge of cleaning equipment to be
use. Knowledge of health and safety requirements. Basic understanding of
applying safety rules. Basic understanding of applying or using chemicals
correctly. Good communication interpersonal relations. Corporate cleaning
experience will be an advantage.
DUTIES : The provision of cleaning services. Keep and maintain cleaning materials and
equipment. Dusting, waxing, sweeping, disinfecting, scrubbing, and vacuuming
of floors and doors. Emptying and cleaning dirty bins. Collecting and removing
of waste paper. Freshening up office areas. Clean the general kitchen basins
wash and keep stock of kitchen utensils. Cleaning the library offices and
boardrooms. Report broken machines. Request cleaning materials. Assist with
other duties as and when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Dina Ntuli Tel No: (013) 766 8339
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at Dr. Esther Nostokana Mahlangu
Building Government Complex, Nkangala or emailed to
dcsrnkangarecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 42/244 : CLEANER REF NO: DCSR/45/2025
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Regional Library
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET level 4 certificate (Grade 9). Knowledge of cleaning equipment to be
use. Knowledge of health and safety requirements. Basic understanding of
applying safety rules. Basic understanding of applying or using chemicals
correctly. Good communication interpersonal relations. Corporate cleaning
experience will be an advantage.
DUTIES : The provision of cleaning services. Keep and maintain cleaning materials and
equipment. Dusting, waxing, sweeping, disinfecting, scrubbing, and vacuuming
of floors and doors. Emptying and cleaning dirty bins. Collecting and removing
of waste paper. Freshening up office areas. Clean the general kitchen basins
wash and keep stock of kitchen utensils. Cleaning the library offices and
163
boardrooms. Report broken machines. Request cleaning materials. Assist with
other duties as and when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Simon Shabangu Tel No: (017) 811 6196
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to 20A De Clerk Street Mutual & Federal
Building or emailed to dcsrgsrecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 42/245 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: DCSR/46/2025
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Regional Library
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET level 4 Certificate (Grade 9). Knowledge of garden maintenance and
planting practices. Basic understanding of government legislations. Knowledge
and understanding of health and safety procedures.
DUTIES : Maintain gardening services in the premises and surrounding through watering
the gardening, prune, trim flowers and tree. Grass mowing, remove weeds and
garden fuse. Apply insecticide; cultivate the soil for trees and flowers. Maintain
gardening equipment’s and tools. Repair minor defect of gardening tools.
Assist with on/off loading of deliveries. Washing and cleaning of GG’s vehicle.
Empty dirty dustbin services in the Museum and assist with other tasks/duties
as and when required by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Simon Shabangu Tel No: (017) 811 6196
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to 20A De Clerk Street Mutual & Federal
Building or emailed to dcsrgsrecruit@mpg.gov.za
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions.
Candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a detailed Curriculum
Vitae. In order to alleviate the administration burden on HR Sections as well as
considering the cost for applicants, Departments are encouraged to request
certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents from shortlisted
candidates only which may be submitted to HR on or before the day of the
interview following communication from the relevant HR section of the
Department. All posts, health/engineering posts that are advertised within the
Department professional registration will be required from various statutory
councils for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of application documents
should be submitted separately for every post that you wish to apply for. Please
ensure that you clearly state the full post description and the relevant Post
Reference Number on your application. No fax applications will be considered.
Applicants must ensure that they fully complete and sign form Z 83, even if
they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or unsigned applications will not be
considered. If you are currently in service, please indicate your PERSAL
number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing internal processes, the
Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at any time. The
Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All
short-listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment.
If no response is received from the Mpumalanga Department of Health within
90 days after the closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume
that their application was not successful. Please quote the correct references
when applying and where possible the station / centre where the post is.
www.mpuhealth.gov.za Only online applications will be accepted. NB:
Candidates who are not contacted within 90 DAYS after the closing date must
consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. Please Note: The
Department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised
posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well served.
(People with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications). N.B. Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments.
164
OTHER POSTS
POST 42/246 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1-3: OBSTETRICS & GYNAECOLOGY REF
NO: MPDOH/NO/25/669
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 - R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 - R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Mapulaneng Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Obstetrics &
Gynaecology (2025). A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge
of current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience
after registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as
a Medical Specialist (Obstetrics & Gynaecology) for foreign qualified
employees. Grade: 2: A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration
with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of
six (6) years’ relevant experience after registration with a recognized foreign
health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist
(Obstetrics & Gynaecology) for qualified foreign employees. Grade 3: A
minimum of ten (10) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11) years’
relevant experience after registration with a recognized foreign health
profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Obstetrics &
Gynaecology) for qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, skills, Training and
Competences required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary
management and teamwork and experience in the respective medical
discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general clinical
domains. The ability to work independently and under pressure and beyond
normal working hours and work with diverse team. Good communication,
leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary. Knowledge of current
health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to
teach and guide junior staff within the department. Behavioural Attributes:
Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence and the ability to build
and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Obstetrics & Gynaecology and
coordinate services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to
support the aims and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards
of patient care. Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted
in a level 2/3 package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and
implementation of guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and
training programs. Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous
professional development. Provide support to hospital management towards
an efficient standard of patient care and services maintained. Comply with the
performance Management and Development System (conducting quarterly
reviews and final assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/247 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1-3: OPHTHALMOLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/NO/25/670
SALARY : R1 341 855 - R1 422 810 per annum
CENTRE : Themba Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Ophthalmology
(2025). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
165
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist (Ophthalmology) for foreign qualified employees.
Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of
medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency
and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work independently and
under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team.
Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Ophthalmology and coordinate
services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims
and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/248 : MANAGER NURSING (PN-A9): PHC REF NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/671
SALARY : R1 155 099 – R1 320 732 per annum
CENTRE : Mbombela Sub-district (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with SANC in
terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma / Degree in Nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional
Nurse (2025). A tertiary qualification in Health Sciences, preferably in Public
Health. A minimum of ten (10 years appropriate / recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse. At least 5 years of the period
referred to above must be appropriate / recognizable experience in
management level at Public Health Service. Competencies: Knowledge of the
District Health System, District Health Planning, District Health Expenditure
Reviews. A demonstrable understanding of the PFMA and Treasury
Regulations, Financial Management, People Management and Empowerment,
Client Orientation and Customer Care. Skills: Leadership, Excellent
Communication skills (verbal and written), Problem Solving, Computer Literacy
and Presentation Skills. Ability to work under pressure. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Manage and evaluate the implementation of policy frameworks for service
delivery by Primary Health Care facilities. Monitor and evaluate the
implementation of services by CHC’s and clinics, including mobile clinics.
Coordinate and evaluate implantation of the five streams for health system
strengthening. Facilitate transformation of nursing management. Coordinate
and manage NPO’s that provide PHC services. Monitor optimal functioning of
clinic committees. Monitor and evaluate the norms and standards for nursing
practice in Primary Health Care. Promote professionalism in Primary Health
Care.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
166
POST 42/249 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/680 (X9 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 001 349 - R1 078 116 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District:
Themba Hospital (X2 Posts)
Barberton Hospital (X1 Post)
Shongwe Hospital (X1 Post)
Tonga Hospital (X1 Post)
Mapulaneng Hospital (X4 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the Health
Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Practitioner (2025)
(Independent Practice). NB: The appointed Medical Officer must be able to
work shifts. A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: No experience required after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Practitioner (Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year relevant experience
after registration with a recognised Foreign Health Professions and / or the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice) for foreign qualified
employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competences Required: Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge,
competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work under
supervision as an efficient team member. Good communication, leadership,
interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability to manage patients independently,
diligently, responsibility and engage when necessary. Knowledge of current
health policies, legislation, programmes and priorities within the domain. Ability
to teach, guide and junior staff within the department. Behavioural Attributes:
Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence and the ability to build
and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Sound clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Ability to deal with all
medical emergencies. Knowledge of ethical medical practice. Assist with
clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/250 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1-3: GENERAL SURGERY REF NO:
MPDOH/NOV/25/681
(Re-advertisement)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 00 349 - R1 078 116 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 - R1 247 202 er annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 - R1 647 630 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner n Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
a Medical Practitioner (2025) (Independent Practice). A valid work permit will
be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public Service regulations
and policies. Additional experience in Obstetrics & Gynaecology,
Neurosurgery, Anaesthesiology, Urology and ENT will serve as
recommendation. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking, examination,
clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 1: No experience
required after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner
167
(Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognised Foreign Health Professions and / or the HPCSA
as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice) for foreign qualified
employees. Grade 2: A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration
with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). A minimum of
six (6) years relevant experience after registration with a recognised foreign
health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner
(Independent Practice) for foreign qualified employees. Grade 3: A minimum
of ten (10) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Practitioner (Independent Practice). A minimum of eleven (11) years relevant
experience after registration with a recognised foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice)
for foreign qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competences
Required: Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound
clinical knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical domains. The
ability to work under supervision as an efficient team member. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability to
manage patients independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when
necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and
priorities within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the
department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team,
self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Sound clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Ability to deal with all
medical emergencies. Knowledge of ethical medical practice. Assist with
clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/251 : PHARMACY SUPERVISOR GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/682
SALARY : R1 001 349 - R1 062 183 per annum
CENTRE : Sabie Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma Pharm/ BSc. Pharm/ B. Pharm.
Current registration with South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) (2025).
Minimum of seven (7) years’ appropriate experience after registration as a
Pharmacist with SAPC. Good communication, interpersonal and computer
skills (MS Word and Excel). Ability to work in a team. Good understanding of
the National Drug Policy and Good Pharmacy Practice. Sound knowledge of
the Pharmacy Act and the Medicine and Related Substance Control Act. A valid
code B driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Implement and monitor the procurement of medicines and medical devices
against the approved demand plan and stock levels. Authorize purchase orders
generated as per the SCM delegation. Monitor the receiving of purchased
goods and confirm that goods have been received and can be paid for (sign
completion certificate). Monitor and manage returns by facilities. Compile and
submit reports. Monitor stock upliftment and ensure proper credit allocation by
the supplier/s. Coordinate the transfer of stock from receiving to the warehouse
and from the warehouse to receiving. Monitor upliftment and batch recalls and
stock of poor quality or standard. Compile and submit reports of obsolete
(expired and damaged) and redundant stock. Monitor receipt of all stock
received on donation. Confirm stock issued to facilities (sign completion
certificate for the service rendered by the service provider). Compile stock
reports and analyse these reports. Capture receipt transactions on stock
management system. Attend Bid Evaluation and/or Bid Specific Committee
meetings. Perform quality assurance activities in the area of responsibility.
168
Maintain and uphold good warehousing practice standards and Good
Pharmacy Practice standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/252 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (PN-B4): PHC REF NO:
MPDOH/NO/25/683
SALARY : R755 355 – R863 667 per annum
CENTRE : Bushbuckridge Sub-district (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Nursing Council in Terms of Government Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma/
Degree in Nursing) that allows registration with the 'South African Nursing
Council' (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and Midwifery plus a post basic
nursing qualification, with duration of at least one (01) year accredited with the
SANC in above mentioned specialties in nursing. A Diploma in Clinical Nursing
Assessment, treatment and Care or Community Health Nursing Science. A
minimum of ten (10) years of appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing (2025).
At least six (6) years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/
recognisable experience in the relevant specialty after obtaining the 1-year
post-basic qualification in the specific specialty. At least three (3) years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/ recognisable experience at
management level. Experience and Knowledge of the District Health System.
Must have understanding of principles of Primary Health Care Re-engineering.
Demonstrate an in depth understanding of Nursing legislation and related legal
and ethical nursing practices and how these impacts on service delivery. A
valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Supervise and support allocated PHC facilities in line with the PHC Supervision
Policy. Conduct monthly red flags and regular reviews. Demonstrate
understanding of the District Health Information System (DHIS). Form part of
the quarterly programme in-depth reviews together with respective Programme
Co-ordinators and form part of the Sub-district and District review session to
monitor progress on set targets according to the District Health Plan (DHP).
Ensure that PHC facilities that she/he is responsible for are compliant with the
National Core Norms and Standards. Ascertain smooth implementation of the
referral system and address constraints related to continuity of care. Support
initiatives of the three streams of PHC Re-engineering. Implement the
Performance Management and Development System (PMDS) with
Operational Managers of PHC facilities that she/he is responsible for.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/253 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (PB-B4): TRAUMA AND EMERGENCY
REF NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/684
SALARY : R755 355 - R863 667 per annum
CENTRE : Tintswalo Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post-basic nursing qualification, with
a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in Trauma & Emergency
Nursing Science. A minimum of ten (10) years appropriate / recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in general nursing. At least six (6) years of the period referred to above must
be appropriate / recognisable experience in the Specific Specialty after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the Trauma & Emergency. At
least three (3) years of the period referred to above must be appropriate /
recognisable experience at management level. A valid driver’s licence. Skills:
Knowledge of nursing care process and procedures, nursing statutes and other
relevant legal framework such as Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational Health
169
and Safety Act 44 Patient’s Right Charter, Batho-Pele Principles, Sound
Knowledge and skills in implementing disciplinary code and procedure,
grievance procedure Leadership, Organisational decision-making solving
abilities within the limit of the public sector and Institutional policy framework.
Good interpersonal skills including public relation, negotiating, conflict handling
and counselling skills. Knowledge of financial and budgetary prescripts and
process pertaining to the relevant resources under management. Insight into
public health sector strategies and priorities, standard procedures and policies
pertaining to nurse care, computer skills in basic programs.
DUTIES : Provide effective management and professional leadership in the specialized
units and Trauma & Emergency Unit. Demonstrate effective communication
with patients, supervisors, other health professionals and junior colleagues
including more complex report writing when required. Effective management,
utilization and supervision of all resources. Display a concern for patients,
promoting advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care. Ensure that
the units adhere to the principles of clinical governance, including the Nursing
strategy. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and any labour related issues
in terms of laid down procedures. Provide supportive supervision and comply
with PMDS evaluation of staff, formulate training programs and participate in
training and development of staff and nursing students, monitor implementation
of PMDS.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/254 : HEAD OF NURSING SCHOOL (PN-D3): SHONGWE HOSPITAL CAMPUS
REF NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/685
SALARY : R713 253 - R838 326 per annum
CENTRE : Mpumalanga College of Nursing, Kabokweni
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus Basic qualification
accredited with the South African Nursing Council in Terms of Government
Notice 425, (i.e. Masters / Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse plus a post basic
qualification in Nursing Education registered with SANC (2025). A minimum of
nine (09) years appropriate / recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing (2025).
At least five (05) years of the period referred to above must be appropriate /
recognizable experience in Nursing Education after obtaining the 1 year post
basic Nursing Education qualification. Recommendations: Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Experience after registration with SANC in Nursing Education after
obtaining R118 in Nursing Education will be an added advantage. Excellent
written and verbal communication. Leadership skills, Presentation, Facilitation,
problem solving, conflict management, research, project management and
time management skills. Excellent written and verbal communication.
Leadership skills, Presentation, Facilitation, problem solving, conflict
management, research, project management and time management skills. A
valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Teaching of clinical nursing practices in accordance with the scope of practice
and nursing standards as determined by the relevant training facility. Provision
of quality nurse training through professional training programmes and
curricula as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards as
determined by the relevant health training facility. Demonstrate effective
communication with students, supervisors and other lecturers, including report
writing and presentation skills when required. Work as part of the education
team to ensure good nurse training. Work, effectively, co-operatively amicably
with students and other persons of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or
religious differences. Able to plan and organize own work and manage training
programmes in order to meet training outcomes as determined by the health
training facility. Demonstrate the ability to perform research work relevant to
nursing education and related subjects to enhance the quality of nursing
education. Able to apply computer technology and programmes to enhance the
level of educational programmes. Co-ordinate theory and practical for Health
170
Nursing Science for the basic program; Develop and design curricula; Conduct
research in own field; Guide, supervise and evaluate performance of academic
staff working under him/her and that of students; Compile, keep records and
reports of his/her span of control; Implement national, provincial and
institutional policies relevant to the discipline; Promote team work amongst
team members; Teach Health Nursing Science.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/255 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): OPERATING THEATRE
REF NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/687 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R693 096 – R789 861 per annum
CENTRE : Themba Hospital and Sabie Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/
Degree in Nursing) that allows registration with the 'South African Nursing
Council' (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing
qualification, with duration of at least one (01) year accredited with the SANC
in Operating Theatre Nursing Science. Diploma/Degree in nursing
management. Minimum of ten (09) years appropriate/recognizable experience
in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with South African Nursing
Council (SANC) in General Nursing At least six (05) years of period referred to
above must be appropriate/recognizable in the specific specialty after obtaining
the one (01) year post basic qualification in Operating Theatre Nursing
Science. At least three (03) years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience at Management Level Skills: Knowledge
of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing statutes and other relevant
legal frameworks such as Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational Health and
Safety Act Patient’s Rights Charter, Batho-Pele Principles. Sound knowledge
and skills in implementing disciplinary code and procedure, grievance
procedure Leadership, organizational, decision making and problem-solving
abilities within the limit of the public sector and institutional policy framework
Good interpersonal skills including public relations, negotiating, conflict
handling and counselling skills. Knowledge of financial and budgetary
prescripts and processes pertaining to the relevant resources under
management Insight into public health sector strategies and priorities including
the nursing strategy, standards procedures and policies pertaining to nursing
care, computer skills in basic programs.
DUTIES : Provide effective management and professional leadership in the specialized
units of Operating Theatre Unit. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors, other health professional and junior colleagues including
more complex report writing when required Effective management, utilization
and supervision of all resources Display a concern for patients, promoting,
advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care and ensure that the unit
adheres to the principles of Batho Pele Maintain clinical competence by
ensuring that scientific principles of nursing and clinical governance are
implemented. Implement maternal guidelines, demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practice. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and any labour related issues
in terms of laid down procedures. Provide supportive supervision and comply
with PMDS evaluation of staff, formulate training programs and participate in
training and development of staff and nursing students Monitor implementation
of Disaster management, monitor implementation of NCS and Ideal Hospital
Realization Framework and interpret its impact on service delivery thereof. Co-
ordinate and participate in health promotion activities and monitor and
evaluation of data Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a support tool to
enhance service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
171
POST 42/256 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): PAEDIATRIC REF NO:
MPDOH/NOV/25/689 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R693 096 – R789 861 Per annum
CENTRE : Themba Hospital and Mapulaneng Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/
Degree in Nursing) that allows registration with the 'South African Nursing
Council' (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing
qualification, with duration of at least one (01) year accredited with the SANC
in Paediatric Nursing Science. Diploma/Degree in nursing management.
Minimum of ten (09) years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with South African Nursing Council
(SANC) in General Nursing At least six (05) years of period referred to above
must be appropriate/recognizable in the specific specialty after obtaining the
one (01) year post basic qualification in Paediatric Nursing Science. At least
three (03) years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience at Management Level Skills: Knowledge
of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing statutes and other relevant
legal frameworks such as Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational Health and
Safety Act Patient’s Rights Charter, Batho-Pele Principles. Sound knowledge
and skills in implementing disciplinary code and procedure, grievance
procedure Leadership, organizational, decision making and problem-solving
abilities within the limit of the public sector and institutional policy framework
Good interpersonal skills including public relations, negotiating, conflict
handling and counselling skills. Knowledge of financial and budgetary
prescripts and processes pertaining to the relevant resources under
management Insight into public health sector strategies and priorities including
the nursing strategy, standards procedures and policies pertaining to nursing
care, computer skills in basic programs.
DUTIES : Provide effective management and professional leadership in the specialized
units of Paediatric Unit. Demonstrate effective communication with patients,
supervisors, other health professional and junior colleagues including more
complex report writing when required Effective management, utilization and
supervision of all resources Display a concern for patients, promoting,
advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care and ensure that the unit
adheres to the principles of Batho Pele Maintain clinical competence by
ensuring that scientific principles of nursing and clinical governance are
implemented. Implement maternal guidelines, demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practice. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and any labour related issues
in terms of laid down procedures. Provide supportive supervision and comply
with PMDS evaluation of staff, formulate training programs and participate in
training and development of staff and nursing students Monitor implementation
of Disaster management, monitor implementation of NCS and Ideal Hospital
Realization Framework and interpret its impact on service delivery thereof. Co-
ordinate and participate in health promotion activities and monitor and
evaluation of data Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a support tool to
enhance service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/257 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): ICU REF NO:
MPDOH/NOV/25/690
SALARY : R693 096 – R789 861 per annum
CENTRE : Themba Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/
Degree in Nursing) that allows registration with the 'South African Nursing
Council' (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing
qualification, with duration of at least one (01) year accredited with the SANC
in Intensive Care Nursing Science. Diploma/Degree in nursing management.
Minimum of ten (09) years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with South African Nursing Council
(SANC) in General Nursing At least six (05) years of period referred to above
172
must be appropriate/recognizable in the specific specialty after obtaining the
one (01) year post basic qualification in Intensive Care Nursing Science. At
least three (03) years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience at Management Level Skills: Knowledge
of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing statutes and other relevant
legal frameworks such as Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational Health and
Safety Act Patient’s Rights Charter, Batho-Pele Principles. Sound knowledge
and skills in implementing disciplinary code and procedure, grievance
procedure Leadership, organizational, decision making and problem-solving
abilities within the limit of the public sector and institutional policy framework
Good interpersonal skills including public relations, negotiating, conflict
handling and counselling skills. Knowledge of financial and budgetary
prescripts and processes pertaining to the relevant resources under
management Insight into public health sector strategies and priorities including
the nursing strategy, standards procedures and policies pertaining to nursing
care, computer skills in basic programs.
DUTIES : Provide effective management and professional leadership in the specialized
units of Intensive Care Unit. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors, other health professional and junior colleagues including
more complex report writing when required Effective management, utilization
and supervision of all resources Display a concern for patients, promoting,
advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care and ensure that the unit
adheres to the principles of Batho Pele Maintain clinical competence by
ensuring that scientific principles of nursing and clinical governance are
implemented. Implement maternal guidelines, demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practice. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and any labour related issues
in terms of laid down procedures. Provide supportive supervision and comply
with PMDS evaluation of staff, formulate training programs and participate in
training and development of staff and nursing students Monitor implementation
of Disaster management, monitor implementation of NCS and Ideal Hospital
Realization Framework and interpret its impact on service delivery thereof. Co-
ordinate and participate in health promotion activities and monitor and
evaluation of data Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a support tool to
enhance service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/258 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): TRAUMA AND
EMERGENCY REF NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/691
SALARY : R693 096 – R789 861 per annum
CENTRE : Tintswalo Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/
Degree in Nursing) that allows registration with the 'South African Nursing
Council' (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing
qualification, with duration of at least one (01) year accredited with the SANC
in Trauma & Emergency Nursing Science. Diploma/Degree in nursing
management. Minimum of ten (09) years appropriate/recognizable experience
in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with South African Nursing
Council (SANC) in General Nursing At least six (05) years of period referred to
above must be appropriate/recognizable in the specific specialty after obtaining
the one (01) year post basic qualification in Trauma & Emergency Nursing
Science. At least three (03) years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience at Management Level Skills: Knowledge
of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing statutes and other relevant
legal frameworks such as Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational Health and
Safety Act Patient’s Rights Charter, Batho-Pele Principles. Sound knowledge
and skills in implementing disciplinary code and procedure, grievance
procedure Leadership, organizational, decision making and problem-solving
abilities within the limit of the public sector and institutional policy framework
Good interpersonal skills including public relations, negotiating, conflict
handling and counselling skills. Knowledge of financial and budgetary
prescripts and processes pertaining to the relevant resources under
173
management Insight into public health sector strategies and priorities including
the nursing strategy, standards procedures and policies pertaining to nursing
care, computer skills in basic programs.
DUTIES : Provide effective management and professional leadership in the specialized
units of Trauma & Emergency Unit. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors, other health professional and junior colleagues including
more complex report writing when required Effective management, utilization
and supervision of all resources Display a concern for patients, promoting,
advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care and ensure that the unit
adheres to the principles of Batho Pele Maintain clinical competence by
ensuring that scientific principles of nursing and clinical governance are
implemented. Implement maternal guidelines, demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practice. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and any labour related issues
in terms of laid down procedures. Provide supportive supervision and comply
with PMDS evaluation of staff, formulate training programs and participate in
training and development of staff and nursing students Monitor implementation
of Disaster management, monitor implementation of NCS and Ideal Hospital
Realization Framework and interpret its impact on service delivery thereof. Co-
ordinate and participate in health promotion activities and monitor and
evaluation of data Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a support tool to
enhance service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/259 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): PHC REF NO:
MPDOH/NOV/25/697 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R693 096 – R789 861 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District:
Mbombela Mobile Clinic (X1 Post)
Bhuga CHC (X1 Post)
Boschfontein Clinic (X1 Post)
Mbangwane Clinic (X1 Post)
Rolle Clinic (X1 Post)
Maviljan Clinic (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus Basic qualification
accredited with the South African Nursing Council in Terms of Government
Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma / Degree in Nursing) or Equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025) plus a post
basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice No R212 in Primary Health Care. A
minimum of nine (09) years of appropriate / recognizable experience in nursing
after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
At least five (05) years of the period referred to above must be appropriate /
recognizable experience in Primary Health Care after obtaining the 1 year post
basic PHC Nursing Science qualification. Experience and knowledge of the
District Health System. Demonstrate an in-depth understanding of nursing
legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices and how these impact
on service delivery. Demonstrate a basic understanding of HR and finance and
practices. Knowledge of relevant legal framework such as Nursing Act, Health
Occupational and Safety Act, Patients Right Charter, Batho Pele Principles,
Operational Management Skills. Problem Solving, planning and Organizing
Skills. Expected to work under pressure and on night duty. Leadership.
Supervisory, problem-solving, conflict resolution, inter-personal and
communication and communication skills. Demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of legislation and related ethical nursing practices and how this
impact on service delivery. Computer literacy will be an added advantage (MS
Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Manage and provide PHC facility supervisory in line with the PHC Supervision
Guideline. Ensure clinical nursing practice by the nursing team in the facility in
accordance with the scope and practice and nursing standard as determined
by the relevant health facility. Promote quality nursing care as directed by the
professional scope of practice and standard in accordance with the PHC
174
delivery package. Ensure the implementation on National Core Norms and
Standards including Six Priority Areas. Advocate for patients through ensuring
adherence to Batho Pele Principles. Coordinate community involvement and
participation. Manage and monitor effective use and maintenance of assets
and infrastructure of the facility. Monitor information management and
documentation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/260 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: THERAPEUTIC AND MEDICAL SUPPORT
GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/698
SALARY : R638 856 – R707 625 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree in Medical Technology in
the category Clinical Pathology or Blood Transfusion that allows with the
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
(2025). A minimum of three (3) years appropriate experience in the relevant
profession after registration with the Health Profession Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as independent practice (where applicable) of which five (5) years
must be appropriate experience in Management. Knowledge of the Health
Care Act, PFMA and its regulations, PPPFA, Public service Act and LRA. Good
interpersonal skills and report writing skills. Skills in facilitation and project/
programme management. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide necessary support to the district leadership in formulating appropriate
local district policies and guidelines regarding economical, effective and
efficient utilization of both Laboratory and Blood transfusion services. Liaise
with key partners in establishing guidelines for quality institutional services.
Establish reporting systems. Keep records and ensure standard adherence as
part of Service Level Agreement management. Ensure the appropriate
utilization of the Laboratory and Blood products by developing and
implementing a continuous learning programme at all levels of care.
Coordinate, audit and monitor the functionality of hospital transfusion and
laboratory committees in the district. Advice the District hospitals on any
Clinical Pathology and Blood transfusion related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/261 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR GRADE 1 (PN-A5): HAST REF
NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/699
SALARY : R549 192 – R629 121 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Nursing Council in Terms of Government Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A minimum of seven (7) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Diploma / Degree in
Nursing Administration and Management or Post-graduate qualification in
Health Management / Health Leadership will be an added advantage. At least
three (3) years minimum experience in Clinical Health Programmes
Coordination or Supervision. Training in HIV management, NIMART and or
project management will be an added advantage. Valid driver’s licence.
Computer literacy. Required Skills and Competencies: Effective planning and
organisation. Good communication, interpersonal and coordination skills.
Proficiency in English and any of the other South African official languages,
preferably spoken local languages. Ability to work with and lead teams. Sound
knowledge, and ability to monitor and evaluate the performance of health
programmes. Excellent verbal and written communication skills. Ability to work
175
independently and under pressure. Knowledge of the DHIS and TIER.NET
systems is recommended.
DUTIES : Plan and coordinate HAST programme activities in the sub-district. Provide
technical support to facilities on integrated HAST programmes. Monitor and
provide mentorship on HAST clinical guidelines and policies. Provide
mentorship to NIMART-trained nurses. Liaise with the multidisciplinary team
and track programmes on integrated HAST programme performance. Conduct
periodic audits and ensure HAST programmes performance data is reconciled
across all data sources, monthly. Provide periodic reports to the districts. Liaise
and build partnerships with stakeholders within the sub-district. Ensure
integration of HAST programmes, TB and other programmes. Ensure efficient
use of the resources allocated to HAST programmes in the sub-district.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/262 : LECTURER GRADE 1 (PN-D1): THEMBA HOSPITAL SUB-CAMPUS REF
NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/702 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R476 367 - R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Mpumalanga College of Nursing, Kabokweni
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Masters /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional nurse plus post basic
qualification in Nursing Education registered with the SANC. A minimum of four
(4) years appropriate / recognisable nursing experience after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing (2025).
Recommendations: Ability to function independently and to prioritize work.
Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-
making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills. Experience after
registration with SANC in Nursing Education after obtaining R118 in Nursing
Education will be an added advantage. Excellent written and verbal
communication. Leadership skills, Presentation, Facilitation, problem solving,
conflict management, research, project management and time management
skills. Excellent written and verbal communication. Leadership skills,
Presentation, Facilitation, problem solving, conflict management, research,
project management and time management skills.
DUTIES : Planning, co-ordination, implementation, and facilitation of training
programmes for nurses in the health establishment. Mentoring and coaching
of nursing staff. Co-ordinate the activities of Clinical Education and Training
Unit (CETU). Facilitate the implementation of Continuous Professional
Development (CPD) Framework. Liaise between Nursing Education and
Nursing Practice (Hospital & Nursing College). Provide Skills and competency
updates and facilitation of in-service training. Monitoring, evaluation and
analysis of training programmes/activities/competencies and skills to ensure
quality health service delivery. Internal and External Collaboration on training
programmes to ensure effective capacity building. Effective Management, co-
ordination, administration, and reporting of Teaching Programmes.
Demonstrate an understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and
ethical nursing practices. Effective and efficient management of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/263 : LECTURER GRADE 1 (PN-D1): ROB FERREIRA HOSPITAL SUB-CAMPUS
REF NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/703
SALARY : R476 367 - R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Mpumalanga College of Nursing, Kabokweni
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Masters /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional nurse plus post basic
qualification in Nursing Education registered with the SANC. A minimum of four
176
(4) years appropriate / recognisable nursing experience after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing (2025).
Recommendations: Ability to function independently and to prioritize work.
Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-
making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills. Experience after
registration with SANC in Nursing Education after obtaining R118 in Nursing
Education will be an added advantage. Excellent written and verbal
communication. Leadership skills, Presentation, Facilitation, problem solving,
conflict management, research, project management and time management
skills. Excellent written and verbal communication. Leadership skills,
Presentation, Facilitation, problem solving, conflict management, research,
project management and time management skills.
DUTIES : Planning, co-ordination, implementation, and facilitation of training
programmes for nurses in the health establishment. Mentoring and coaching
of nursing staff. Co-ordinate the activities of Clinical Education and Training
Unit (CETU). Facilitate the implementation of Continuous Professional
Development (CPD) Framework. Liaise between Nursing Education and
Nursing Practice (Hospital & Nursing College). Provide Skills and competency
updates and facilitation of in-service training. Monitoring, evaluation and
analysis of training programmes/activities/competencies and skills to ensure
quality health service delivery. Internal and External Collaboration on training
programmes to ensure effective capacity building. Effective Management, co-
ordination, administration, and reporting of Teaching Programmes.
Demonstrate an understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and
ethical nursing practices. Effective and efficient management of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/264 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 (PN-B1): PHC REF NO:
MPDOH/NOV/25/710 (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District:
Kanyamazane CHC (X1 Post)
Matsulu CHC (X1 Post)
Nelspruit CHC (X1 Post)
Kabokweni CHC (X1 Post)
Shabala Clinic (X1 Post)
Mangweni CHC (X1 Post)
Jim Brown Clinic (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2025), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Primary Health Care
Science. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC. Ability to
function independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound
interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-making skills. Good
supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Primary Health Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability
to prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to
protocols. Able to plan and organize your own work and that of support
personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and
177
performance management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and
deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with
people of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure
adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/265 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): PHC REF NO:
MPDOH/NOV/25/713 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District:
Kanyamazane CHC (X1 Post)
Arthurstone Clinic (X1 Post)
Islington Clinic (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2025), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Primary Health Care
Science. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC. Ability to
function independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound
interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-making skills. Good
supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Primary Health Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability
to prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to
protocols. Able to plan and organize your own work and that of support
personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and
performance management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and
deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with
people of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure
adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/266 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): CASUALTY REF NO:
MPDOH/NOV/25/714
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Shongwe Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/
Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing qualification with
of at least 1year, accredited with the SANC in terms Government Notice R212
in Casualty Nursing Science. A minimum of four (4) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
178
skills. Demonstrate an understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice of
Casualty Nursing Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management of
resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards.
Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient
care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with
the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stakeholders.
Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that
equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize, coordinate
activities of patient management according to protocols. Able to plan and
organize own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing
care. Participate in staff development and performance management. Report
patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies within the unit. Work
effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural,
racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and
Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/267 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
REF NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/715
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Mapulaneng Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/
Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing qualification with
of at least 1year, accredited with the SANC in terms Government Notice R212
in Occupational Health Nursing Science. A minimum of four (4) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Demonstrate an understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice of
Occupational Health Nursing Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stakeholders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to
prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to protocols.
Able to plan and organize own work and that of support personnel to ensure
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of
diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence
to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/268 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): OPERATING THEATRE REF
NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/717 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Barberton Hospital and Shongwe Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
179
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/
Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing qualification with
of at least 1year, accredited with the SANC in terms Government Notice R212
in Operating Theatre Nursing Science. A minimum of four (4) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Demonstrate an understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice of
Operating Theatre Nursing Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stakeholders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to
prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to protocols.
Able to plan and organize own work and that of support personnel to ensure
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of
diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence
to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/269 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): MATERNITY REF NO:
MPDOH/NOV/25/722 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District:
Rob Ferreira Hospital (X1 Post)
Mapulaneng Hospital (X1 Post)
Tintswalo Hospital (X2 Posts)
Shongwe Hospital (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/
Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing qualification with
of at least 1year, accredited with the SANC in terms Government Notice R212
in Advanced Midwifery Nursing Science. A minimum of four (4) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Demonstrate an understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice of
Advanced Midwifery Nursing Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stakeholders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to
prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to protocols.
Able to plan and organize own work and that of support personnel to ensure
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of
180
diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence
to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/270 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): CASUALTY REF NO:
MPDOH/NOV/25/723
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Shongwe Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/
Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing qualification with
of at least 1year, accredited with the SANC in terms Government Notice R212
in Casualty Nursing Science. A minimum of four (4) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Demonstrate an understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice of
Casualty Nursing Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management of
resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards.
Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient
care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with
the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stakeholders.
Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that
equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize, coordinate
activities of patient management according to protocols. Able to plan and
organize own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing
care. Participate in staff development and performance management. Report
patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies within the unit. Work
effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural,
racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and
Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/271 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): ORTHOPAEDIC REF NO:
MPDOH/NOV/25/724
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Tintswalo Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/
Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing qualification with
of at least 1year, accredited with the SANC in terms Government Notice R212
in Orthopaedic Nursing Science. A minimum of four (4) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Demonstrate an understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice of
Orthopaedic Nursing Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management of
resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards.
Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient
care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with
181
the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stakeholders.
Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that
equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize, coordinate
activities of patient management according to protocols. Able to plan and
organize own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing
care. Participate in staff development and performance management. Report
patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies within the unit. Work
effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural,
racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and
Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/272 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): OPHTHALMOLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/NOV/25/725
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Shongwe Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/
Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing qualification with
of at least 1year, accredited with the SANC in terms Government Notice R212
in Ophthalmology Nursing Science. A minimum of four (4) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Demonstrate an understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice of
Ophthalmology Nursing Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management
of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards.
Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient
care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with
the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stakeholders.
Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that
equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize, coordinate
activities of patient management according to protocols. Able to plan and
organize own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing
care. Participate in staff development and performance management. Report
patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies within the unit. Work
effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural,
racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and
Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/273 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): PAEDIATRIC REF NO:
MPDOH/NOV/25/728 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District:
Tintswalo Hospital (X2 Posts)
Mapulaneng Hospital (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/
Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing qualification with
of at least 1year, accredited with the SANC in terms Government Notice R212
in Paediatric Nursing Science. A minimum of four (4) years
182
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Demonstrate an understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice of
Paediatric Nursing Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management of
resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards.
Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient
care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with
the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stakeholders.
Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that
equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize, coordinate
activities of patient management according to protocols. Able to plan and
organize own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing
care. Participate in staff development and performance management. Report
patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies within the unit. Work
effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural,
racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and
Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/274 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): OPD REF NO:
MPDOH/NOV/25/729
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Tintswalo Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/
Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing qualification with
of at least 1year, accredited with the SANC in terms Government Notice R212
in OPD Nursing Science. A minimum of four (4) years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing. Ability to function independently and to prioritize work.
Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-
making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills. Demonstrate an
understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice of
OPD Nursing Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management of
resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards.
Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient
care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with
the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stakeholders.
Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that
equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize, coordinate
activities of patient management according to protocols. Able to plan and
organize own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing
care. Participate in staff development and performance management. Report
patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies within the unit. Work
effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural,
racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and
Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
183
POST 42/275 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): OPHTHALMOLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/NOV/25/730
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Mapulaneng Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/
Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing qualification with
of at least 1year, accredited with the SANC in terms Government Notice R212
in Ophthalmic Nursing Science. A minimum of four (4) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Demonstrate an understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice of
Ophthalmic Nursing Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management of
resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards.
Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient
care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with
the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stakeholders.
Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that
equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize, coordinate
activities of patient management according to protocols. Able to plan and
organize own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing
care. Participate in staff development and performance management. Report
patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies within the unit. Work
effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural,
racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and
Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/276 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): ICU REF NO:
MPDOH/NOV/25/731
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Themba Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/
Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing qualification with
of at least 1year, accredited with the SANC in terms Government Notice R212
in Intensive Care Nursing Science. A minimum of four (4) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Demonstrate an understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice of
Intensive Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management of resources.
Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards. Participate in quality
improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient care standards.
Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with the statutory
laws governing the nursing profession, labour and health care. Implement
constructive working relations with nurses and other stakeholders. Ensure
compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that equipment
is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize, coordinate activities of
patient management according to protocols. Able to plan and organize own
work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate
in staff development and performance management. Report patient safety
incidence, challenges and deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-
184
operatively amicably with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or
religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and
Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/277 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/735
SALARY : R397 233 - R454 191 per annum
CENTRE : Mapulaneng Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus appropriate qualification that allows for the
registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable).
Current registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist (2025)
(Independent Practice). A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Grade 1: No experience required after registration with the HPCSA
as an Occupational Therapist (Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year
relevant experience after registration with a recognised Foreign Health
Professions and / or the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist (Independent
Practice) for foreign qualified employees. Clinical experience in general adult
and pediatric assessment and treatment is required. Knowledge in the fields of
mental health, vocational rehabilitation, neurology, hand injuries, burns,
amputations, developmental delays, etc. is expected. Clinical experience in
these fields will be beneficial.
DUTIES : To provide optimal and evidence-based occupational therapy in individual and
group settings for patients in, out and clinics. To administer standardized and
clinical assessments to patients requiring FCEs and other clinical reports. To
perform and complete administrative functions including record keeping,
statistics, participate in various meetings and awareness campaigns. To plan
for and participate in internal and external audits and ensure departmental
standards and effective service delivery. To participate in the performance
management and training and development programs within the department.
To supervise junior level staff. To supervise allocated students and learners.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/278 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/736
(Re-advertisement)
SALARY : R397 233 - R454 191 per annum
CENTRE : Tonga Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus appropriate qualification that allows for the
registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable).
Current registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist (2025)
(Independent Practice). A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Grade 1: No experience required after registration with the HPCSA
as an Occupational Therapist (Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year
relevant experience after registration with a recognised Foreign Health
Professions and / or the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist (Independent
Practice) for foreign qualified employees. Clinical experience in general adult
and pediatric assessment and treatment is required. Knowledge in the fields of
mental health, vocational rehabilitation, neurology, hand injuries, burns,
amputations, developmental delays, etc. is expected. Clinical experience in
these fields will be beneficial.
DUTIES : To provide optimal and evidence-based occupational therapy in individual and
group settings for patients in, out and clinics. To administer standardized and
clinical assessments to patients requiring FCEs and other clinical reports. To
perform and complete administrative functions including record keeping,
statistics, participate in various meetings and awareness campaigns. To plan
for and participate in internal and external audits and ensure departmental
standards and effective service delivery. To participate in the performance
185
management and training and development programs within the department.
To supervise junior level staff. To supervise allocated students and learners.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/279 : ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 REF NO:
MPDOH/NOV/25/737
SALARY : R397 233 – R454 191 per annum
CENTRE : Agincourt CHC (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus an appropriate
qualification that allows for the required registration with the Health
Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in the relevant profession (where
applicable) (2025). Grade 1: SA Qualified employees: None after registration
with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable) in respect of
employees who performed Community Service, as required in SA. Foreign
Qualified employees: One (1) year relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable) in respect of
employees of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in SA. Hospital experience and extensive knowledge in Occupational
Health and Safety will be an added advantage. Good interpersonal Skills,
written, verbal and presentation Skills. Accuracy and attention to detail. Ability
to work under pressure. Ability and willingness to travel. Good interpersonal
relationship, Leadership skill. Valid drivers’ licence.
DUTIES : Waste management (ensure proper handling and monitor of general waste and
health care risk waste). Safety health environment risk and quality (SHERQ)
management. Waste quality monitoring (collection of water samples and
analysing results). Food control (collection of food samples, inspection of food
premises and training of staff). Vector control within the facility (organize pest
control programme). Disease surveillance (from part of the outbreak response
team, investigate outbreaks and liaise with relevant stakeholders). Monitor
Environmental health indicators and provide reports to management. Pollution
control. Environmental health hygiene. Occupational hygiene surveillance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/280 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PATIENT ADMINISTRATION REF
NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/732
(Re-advertised)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Themba Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus six (6) years’ experience in Patient
Administration or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public Administration /
Public Management as recognized by SAQA with three (3) years’ relevant
experience in the post of an Administrative Officer / Chief Administration Clerk
(Level 7). Extensive knowledge of outpatient administration, reception in and
help desk functions. Extensive knowledge of PEIS, Billing system and UPFS
user guide/procedure book. Knowledge of Revenue policies and
understanding of sector financial administration and the provisions of PFMA.
Knowledge of relevant prescripts such as Government Gazette. Good
communication skill, report writing skills be computer literate and have ability
to work under pressure. Be available to work extra hours in a 24-hour shift
environment and be part of the hospital’s multidisciplinary committees. A valid
driver licence will serve as an added advantage.
DUTIES : Manage patient admin in 24 hours shift system, manage and sustain internal
control for collection of revenue, process debtors account, banking of revenue
collected, excising control over the maintenance and application of the filing
system for medical records, facilitate proper classification and re-classification
of patients, compile management, reports, manage archiving of patient
records, evaluation of staff in terms of the performance management system.
186
Prepare on / off duties for staff including ward clerk. Control overtime, stand-
by and Sunday/public holiday claims. Control queue Marshall, porter and
mortuary services. Handle enquiries relating to patient admin, assist with case
management and compile daily, weekly and monthly statistics and reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/281 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: RISK & SECURITY MANAGEMENT
REF NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/733
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Barberton Hospital (Ehlanzeni District).
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus six (6) relevant experience in Risk & Security
Management or Diploma or Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Security Management
/ Law / Criminal Justice as recognized by SAQA with three (3) years relevant
experience in the post of an Administrative Officer / Chief Administration Clerk
(Level 7). Valid PSIRA Grade B Certificate or equivalent qualification.
Experience in the relevant security related environment. Knowledge of security
Strategies / Guidelines. Knowledge of Minimum Information Standards (MISS).
Knowledge of Protection of Information Act (POPIA). Computer Literacy. Valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Record, Report and attend security incidents. Monitor access in the premises.
Prevent any unauthorized access and report security breaches. Conduct
awareness sessions. Ensure implementation and fully compliance to MISS.
Conduct patrols of the premises using CCTV. Note all results in the daily
Occurrence Book (OB) for further handling with supervisors. Provide advice in
terms of equipment to be procured for the Control Room function so as to
ensure that the building remains secured and suspicious activity is dealt with.
Compile reports of all incidents that occurred and how they were resolved and
advise the Management on what measures to be taken to prevent repeat.
Develop the Security Operational Plan of the facility.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/282 : HEALTH INFORMATION OFFICER REF NO: MPDOH/NO/25/734
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) years’ experience in DHIS or
Diploma / Degree in Statistic / Information Management as recognized by
SAQA with three (3) relevant experience. Advanced computer literacy.
Presentation and data analysis skills. Extensive knowledge of Health
Information systems. Ability to work under pressure. Knowledge of public
health indicators and data elements. Advanced knowledge in the management
of registers and all relevant source documents. Knowledge of data quality
assessment tools and methods. Skills in data consolidation, verification and
validation process. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Conduct database management of DHIS in the hospital and other relevant
systems. Conduct facility data and performance review meetings. Conduct
data verification, validation and consolidation of hospital data from all sources.
Timeously capture data on the Web-DHIS and upload into the system. Support
DHIS version updates and workshops relating to new versions. Support
implementation of National, Provincial and District Health Information systems.
Conduct data quality audit for the facility and quality improvement plans.
Monitor implementation of health information policies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
187
POST 42/283 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: AUXILIARY SERVICES REF NO:
MPDOH/NOV/25/738
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Shongwe Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus six (6) years’ experience in Auxiliary Services
or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public Administration / Management
as recognized by SAQA with three (3) years’ experience in the post of
Administrative Officer / Chief Administration Clerk (Level 7). Knowledge of
PFMA, Public Service Act, regulations and other prescripts. Knowledge of
office management. Computer literacy or Certificate with practical knowledge
of Microsoft programs (Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Internet). Must possess
the ability to plan, organize, supervise, inspect and evaluate work of
subordinates. Knowledge of OHS and infection Control. Valid driver’s licence
is essential. Good communication skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : Implement policies and processes on office support services. Facilitate and
render general office support services (Porter, Mortuary, Switchboard services,
Security services and Messenger Services). Ensure compliance with National
Core Standards and ideal assessment tools. Leave matters and overtime
management. Provide advice to floor supervisors. Ensure security services are
in their post 24/7, and the Control Room is always active. Make rounds and
monitor security services, mortuary, porter, switchboard and messenger
services are performing the required duties and meeting deadlines. Take
responsibility for movement or transfer of corpses from various referral facilities
in collaboration with the wards and your supervisor. Be actively involved in
budgeting and budgetary control for these units. Ensure saving measures are
put in place. Apply disciplinary measures when necessary. Order, receive and
distribute materials and equipment for the units under your control. Manage
performance and development of staff. Attend meetings and give feedback.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/284 : CHIEF PERSONNEL OFFICER REF NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/740 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit) and Mapulaneng Hospital
(Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/ Grade 12 plus six (6) years’ relevant experience in Human
Resource Management or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Human
Resource Management, Public Administration / Management as recognised by
SAQA with three (3) years’ experience in the post of Personnel Practitioner /
Principal Personnel Officer (Level 7). A least a minimum of three (3) PERSAL
courses is inherent requirement. Extensive knowledge of PERSAL including
interpreting PERSAL reports. Skills and competencies: In-depth knowledge of
policies, systems, processes, procedures and best practices pertaining to
Recruitment and Selection, Condition of Services, Employees Benefits,
Administration, Performance Management, Human Resource Development
and Skills development. A good understanding and knowledge of the PFMA,
Public Service Regulations, Basic Conditions of Employment and Employment
Equity Act. Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA), Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulations and 245 Treasury Regulations. Computer literacy
particularly MS, Excel, Outlook & Word. Good interpersonal relationship,
networking, written and verbal communication skills at levels. Logical and
innovative thinking abilities and leadership skills. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Co-ordination and compilation of reports regarding the filing of posts. Monitor
the development and review of the system of administering processes in the
area of HR strategy and the management of demand and supply of human
resources. Monitor and advise the process of recruitment and selection within
the Department. Development of service in the standards in the area of
responsibility. Monitor the implementation of Operational Plan of the unit.
Manage staff in terms of the approved Performance Management and
Development system: Conduct performance midterm reviews and annual
performance assessment of staff. Ensure compliance and effective
implementation of employment equity and skill development. Facilitate
188
processing of pension benefits and leave payouts. Create and maintain the
complete and accurate Human Resource records. Approve PERSAL
Transactions captured. Utilize resources effectively, adhere to Batho Pele
Principle and service standard.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/285 : HEALTH PROMOTION PRACTITIONER REF NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/744 (X4
POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District:
Agincourt CHC (X1 Post)
Mgobodzi CHC (X1 Post)
Rob Ferreira Hospital (X1 Post)
Thulamahashe CHC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate and recognized National
Diploma in Health Promotion. At least three (03) years’ appropriate experience
in the field of health promotion. Good interpersonal skills. Good written and
verbal communication skills. Ability to work under pressure. Sound
communication and interpersonal skills. Analytical skills on problem solving,
decision making and organizational skills. Computer literacy particularly MS,
Excel, outlook & Word. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Implement health promotion programmes, strategies, interventions and
campaigns at facility and community level. Plan and provide information,
education and communication activities. Promote community, inter-sectoral
and non-governmental participation in health promotion programmes and
interventions. Establish household community components of integrated
management of childhood illness, healthy lifestyle interventions and health
promoting schools. Participate in Local forums to build relationships across
sectors and to identify opportunities for health advocacy. Distribute IEC
materials and resources within the sub-district. Support health sector initiatives
in the sub-district, including those initiated by local authorities, schools,
workplaces and other settings. Submit reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/286 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO:
MPDOH/NOV/25/746 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni Distinct:
Mapulaneng Hospital
Matikwana Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 Certificate plus three (3) years relevant
experience in Finance or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) Finance / Logistic
/ Management Accounting / Financial Management as recognized by SAQA.
Knowledge of relevant legislation/ regulations and policies as well as
transversal financial system in Government such as BAS and LOGIS. Sound
interpersonal and communication skills. Computer literacy. Self-driven, result
orientated, motivated, meet deadlines and acceptance of responsibility.
DUTIES : To render provisioning services. Maintain sound provisioning and logistical
systems and processes. Maintain updated provisioning records. Manage and
maintain the logistical and warehouse administration systems. Maintain and
control consumable stores. Issuing of consumable store items. Monitor and
control of the adherence to sound accounting. Monitor and control all payments
on the transversal systems. Knowledge of legal framework and any other
policies. Ensure correct allocation of expenditure and revenue. Draw financial
reports as well as preparing financial statement, projections and provide
meaningful interpretation reports. The incumbent will be expected to assist in
189
the budget formulation, compiling of cash flow budget as well as the monthly
reports. Attend monthly meetings and operational meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/287 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HEALTH TECHNOLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/NOV/25/747
(Re-advertisement)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Nkangala District Clinical Engineering Workshop, Emalahleni
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) years’ relevant experience or
Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public Administration / Management.
Good interpersonal and communication skills (verbal and written). Knowledge
of PFMA, National Treasury Regulations, BBBEE, PPPFA, procurement
policies and procedures. Must have Experience on Government systems (BAS
& LOGIS), excellent interpersonal relations, good communication skills. Valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Monitor incoming and outgoing of medical equipment. Manage the stock in the
Clinical Engineering (C.E) Workshop. Keep the electronic and manual filling of
information for the C.E Workshop. Compile and capture requisitions for C.E
Workshop. Facilitate the process of issuing purchase orders for repairs and
services to medical equipment and stores related items.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/288 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PATIENT ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
MPDOH/NOV/25/748
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) years’ experience in Patient
Administration or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public Administration /
Public Management as recognized by SAQA. Extensive knowledge of
outpatient administration, reception in and help desk functions. Extensive
knowledge of PEIS, Billing system and UPFS user guide/procedure book.
Knowledge of Revenue policies and understanding of sector financial
administration and the provisions of PFMA. Knowledge of relevant prescripts
such as Government Gazette. Good communication skill, report writing skills
be computer literate and have ability to work under pressure. Be available to
work extra hours in a 24-hour shift environment and be part of the hospital’s
multidisciplinary committees. A valid driver licence will serve as an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Manage patient admin in 24 hours shift system, manage and sustain internal
control for collection of revenue, process debtors account, banking of revenue
collected, excising control over the maintenance and application of the filing
system for medical records, facilitate proper classification and re-classification
of patients, compile management, reports, manage archiving of patient
records, evaluation of staff in terms of the performance management system.
Prepare on / off duties for staff including ward clerk. Control overtime, stand-
by and Sunday/public holiday claims. Control queue Marshall, porter and
mortuary services. Handle enquiries relating to patient admin, assist with case
management and compile daily, weekly and monthly statistics and reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
190
POST 42/289 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PATIENT ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
MPDOH/NOV/25/749
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Mapulaneng Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) years’ experience in Patient
Administration or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public Administration /
Public Management as recognized by SAQA. Extensive knowledge of
outpatient administration, reception in and help desk functions. Extensive
knowledge of PEIS, Billing system and UPFS user guide/procedure book.
Knowledge of Revenue policies and understanding of sector financial
administration and the provisions of PFMA. Knowledge of relevant prescripts
such as Government Gazette. Good communication skill, report writing skills
be computer literate and have ability to work under pressure. Be available to
work extra hours in a 24-hour shift environment and be part of the hospital’s
multidisciplinary committees. A valid driver licence will serve as an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Manage patient admin in 24 hours shift system, manage and sustain internal
control for collection of revenue, process debtors account, banking of revenue
collected, excising control over the maintenance and application of the filing
system for medical records, facilitate proper classification and re-classification
of patients, compile management, reports, manage archiving of patient
records, evaluation of staff in terms of the performance management system.
Prepare on / off duties for staff including ward clerk. Control overtime, stand-
by and Sunday/public holiday claims. Control queue Marshall, porter and
mortuary services. Handle enquiries relating to patient admin, assist with case
management and compile daily, weekly and monthly statistics and reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/290 : CHIEF ACCOUNTING CLERK: EXPENDITURE REF NO:
MPDOH/NO/25/750
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) years relevant experience or
Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Finance / Accounting Management /
Financial Management as recognized by SAQA. Knowledge and experience in
expenditure management, main focus in the following areas: Logis,
Preferential Procurement Policy Framework (PPFMA) Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) Treasury Regulations and general knowledge of
Basic Accounting System (BAS) Computer literacy, sound interpersonal and
communication skills (written and verbal) Good management and supervisory
skills. Ability to work independently and adhere to deadlines. Knowledge of
financial prescripts and valid drivers’ licence will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Supervise and control the work of sub-ordinate in the expenditure management
unit. Authorize payments on Bas and Logis system. Understanding of all
aspects of supply chain processes. Ensuring compliance with departmental
and treasury regulations. Establish and enforce internal control measures.
Manage all open orders report (Accruals) and reconciliation of NTSG accounts.
Deal with Human resources matters such as leave and perform development
system of quarterly evaluation reports. Attend and respond to audit queries.
Prepare NTSG reports. Manage human resource.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/291 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): GENERAL NURSING REF
NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/781 (X31 POSTS)
SALARY : R324 384 – R382 107 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District:
191
Bongani TB Specialized Hospital (X1 Post)
Rob Ferreira Hospital (X1 Post)
Themba Hospital (X1 Post)
Barberton Hospital (X1 Post)
Kaapmuiden Clinic (X1 Post)
Shongwe Hospital (X5 Posts)
Jeppes Reef Clinic (X1 Post)
Tonga Hospital (X2 Posts)
Kiwi Clinic (X1 Post)
Mapulaneng Hospital (X5 Posts)
Tintswalo Hospital (X2 Posts)
Matikwana Hospital (X4 Posts)
Kildare Clinic (X1 Post)
Thokozane Clinic (X1 Post)
Cottondale Clinic (X1 Post)
Islington Clinic (X1 Post)
Ludlow Clinic (X1 Post)
Hluvukani CHC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the SANC
in terms of Government Notice R425 and R171 depending on the level of care
at each facility (I.E. Diploma/ Degree in General Nursing) equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as Professional Nurse (2025). Ability to function independently and to
prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and
decision-making skills.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho- Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/292 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): WITH MIDWIFERY REF NO:
MPDOH/NOV/25/784 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R324 384 – R382 107 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District: Tonga Hospital (X2 Posts)
Lydenburg Hospital (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the SANC
in terms of Government Notice R425 (I.E. Diploma/ Degree in General Nursing)
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing
Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse (2025). Ability to function independently
and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem
solving and decision-making skills.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
192
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho- Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/293 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): GENERAL NURSING (ARV)
REF NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/785
SALARY : R324 384 – R382 107 per annum
CENTRE : Tintswalo Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the SANC
in terms of Government Notice (I.E. Diploma/ Degree in General Nursing)
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing
Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse (2025). Ability to function independently
and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem
solving and decision-making skills.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho- Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/294 : ARTISAN (PRODUCTION) GRADE A: PAINTER REF NO:
MPDOH/NO/25/786
SALARY : R243 597 – R270 357 per annum
CENTRE : Mapulaneng Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum of Grade 10-12 or equivalent qualifications plus Trade Test Certificate
in Painting / Decoration. Valid driver’s licence. Knowledge and experience of
painting repairs, maintenance, and new paint works. Knowledge of painting
codes and standards. Knowledge of Occupational Health & Safety Regulation.
In physical sound and healthy condition. Prepared to perform overtime and
standby duties, including weekends and public as well as over peak periods,
as and when needed. Requirements and skills: Proven experience as a painter.
Excellent knowledge of painting material and how to select, mix and apply
them. Solid knowledge of commercial and/or construction painting techniques.
Aptitude in using appropriate tools (brushes, caulking guns etc.). Good basic
math skills. Manual dexterity with excellent balance to work on scaffolding,
ladders etc. Conscientious with great attention to detail. High school diploma;
successful completion of an apprenticeship. Frequently asked questions.
DUTIES : To maintain the painting at Health facilities by inspecting and undertaking
painting jobs including reporting thereon. Preparation and Painting of Health
facilities. Preparation and Repairs and maintenance of Painting to Health
facilities. Identifies sources of painting deterioration and complete repairs
according to the job cards. Selection and specification of materials and
materials estimates. Maintains accurate records on materials and labour used.
Maintains inventory of tools. equipment, and materials. Inspects jobs upon
completion and ensure areas are kept clean at all times. Works with
193
supervisors to complete projects at hand. Identify need for repairs &
maintenance to facilities following established inspection procedures.
Timeously responds to emergency calls as needed. Performs preventative
maintenance on tools and equipment. Carry out work and operates tools and
equipment according to Occupational Health and Safety regulations. Perform
Standby and/overtime duties when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/295 : EMERGENCY CARE OFFICER GRADE 3 REF NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/792 (X6
POSTS)
SALARY : R217 983 - R286 521 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District:
EMS Lydenburg Station (X2 Posts)
EMS Bongani Station (X2 Posts)
EMS Barberton Station (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an Ambulance Emergency Assistant.
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
an Ambulance Emergency Assistant. Current registration with the HPCSA
(2025). Unendorsed driver’s licence (C1) and valid professional drivers permit
(PrDP) for transporting patients. Candidates are expected to write an
assessment test and test driving. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: The
incumbents of these posts will report to the EMS Station Manager: Emergency
Medical Services and will be responsible to provide pre-hospital treatment
within the scope of Intermediate Life Support and transport patients to an
appropriate health facility in order to minimize the loss of life. The ideal
candidates must: Possess knowledge of Intermediate Life Support Protocols.
Have understanding of EMS and its line of business. Possess knowledge of
basic Medical Rescue. Possess knowledge of Rules and Regulations of Road
Traffic Ordinance. Possess good communication skills. Have practical patient
management skills. Have the ability to implement emergency procedures.
Have the ability to work under pressure. Be able to operate in any EMS
environment i.e. Emergency ambulance, Obstetric ambulance, inter-facility
ambulance, communication centres and Patient Transport Services as per the
allocation or deployment by EMS management.
DUTIES : Treat, stabilize and transport patients according to the Intermediate Life
Support scope of practice as per HPCSA Protocols. Respond to all calls as
dispatched by the Communication Centre or as requested by other medical
professionals to assist with Intermediate Life Support of patient treatment.
Maintain best clinical practice in accordance with quality standards and
maintaining Continuous Professional Development (CPD). Maintain vehicle
and medical equipment, check the allocated vehicle and equipment and
complete the checklist, report all losses, damages and discrepancies to the
Shift Leader. Wash, clean and disinfect the interior/exterior of the vehicle and
maintain the vehicle in a clean condition and good working order at all times.
Change and replenish surgical sundries and medical gases and ensure that all
items are used before expiry date. Assist in maintaining a clean and tidy station.
Complete and submit all paperwork to the Shift Leader before the termination
of the shift or as required. Hand over the vehicle and equipment to the next
shift/relevant authority fully replenished, clean and in good working order.
Abide by the EMS Standard Operational Procedures. Actively participate in
training and quality assurance programs. Perform any other duties as
delegated by the supervisor. Candidates are expected to work shifts, they
should be mentally and physically fit to perform their duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
194
POST 42/296 : EMERGENCY CARE OFFICER GRADE 3 REF NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/803
(X11 POSTS)
SALARY : R217 983 - R286 521 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala District:
EMS KwaMhlanga Station (X5 Posts)
EMS Witbank Station (X3 Posts)
EMS Middelburg Station (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an Ambulance Emergency Assistant.
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
an Ambulance Emergency Assistant. Current registration with the HPCSA
(2025). Unendorsed driver’s licence (C1) and valid professional drivers permit
(PrDP) for transporting patients. Candidates are expected to write an
assessment test and test driving. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: The
incumbents of these posts will report to the EMS Station Manager: Emergency
Medical Services and will be responsible to provide pre-hospital treatment
within the scope of Intermediate Life Support and transport patients to an
appropriate health facility in order to minimize the loss of life. The ideal
candidates must: Possess knowledge of Intermediate Life Support Protocols.
Have understanding of EMS and its line of business. Possess knowledge of
basic Medical Rescue. Possess knowledge of Rules and Regulations of Road
Traffic Ordinance. Possess good communication skills. Have practical patient
management skills. Have the ability to implement emergency procedures.
Have the ability to work under pressure. Be able to operate in any EMS
environment i.e. Emergency ambulance, Obstetric ambulance, inter-facility
ambulance, communication centres and Patient Transport Services as per the
allocation or deployment by EMS management.
DUTIES : Treat, stabilize and transport patients according to the Intermediate Life
Support scope of practice as per HPCSA Protocols. Respond to all calls as
dispatched by the Communication Centre or as requested by other medical
professionals to assist with Intermediate Life Support of patient treatment.
Maintain best clinical practice in accordance with quality standards and
maintaining Continuous Professional Development (CPD). Maintain vehicle
and medical equipment, check the allocated vehicle and equipment and
complete the checklist, report all losses, damages and discrepancies to the
Shift Leader. Wash, clean and disinfect the interior/exterior of the vehicle and
maintain the vehicle in a clean condition and good working order at all times.
Change and replenish surgical sundries and medical gases and ensure that all
items are used before expiry date. Assist in maintaining a clean and tidy station.
Complete and submit all paperwork to the Shift Leader before the termination
of the shift or as required. Hand over the vehicle and equipment to the next
shift/relevant authority fully replenished, clean and in good working order.
Abide by the EMS Standard Operational Procedures. Actively participate in
training and quality assurance programs. Perform any other duties as
delegated by the supervisor. Candidates are expected to work shifts, they
should be mentally and physically fit to perform their duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 42/297 : EMERGENCY CARE OFFICER GRADE 3 REF NO: MPDOH/NOV/25/818
(X15 POSTS)
SALARY : R217 983 - R286 521 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District:
EMS Communication Centre (X5 Posts)
EMS Balfour Station (X2 Posts)
EMS Leandra Station (X2 Posts)
EMS Lothair Station (X3 Posts)
EMS Volksrust Station (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an Ambulance Emergency Assistant.
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
an Ambulance Emergency Assistant. Current registration with the HPCSA
(2025). Unendorsed driver’s licence (C1) and valid professional drivers permit
(PrDP) for transporting patients. Candidates are expected to write an
195
assessment test and test driving. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: The
incumbents of these posts will report to the EMS Station Manager: Emergency
Medical Services and will be responsible to provide pre-hospital treatment
within the scope of Intermediate Life Support and transport patients to an
appropriate health facility in order to minimize the loss of life. The ideal
candidates must: Possess knowledge of Intermediate Life Support Protocols.
Have understanding of EMS and its line of business. Possess knowledge of
basic Medical Rescue. Possess knowledge of Rules and Regulations of Road
Traffic Ordinance. Possess good communication skills. Have practical patient
management skills. Have the ability to implement emergency procedures.
Have the ability to work under pressure. Be able to operate in any EMS
environment i.e. Emergency ambulance, Obstetric ambulance, inter-facility
ambulance, communication centres and Patient Transport Services as per the
allocation or deployment by EMS management.
DUTIES : Treat, stabilize and transport patients according to the Intermediate Life
Support scope of practice as per HPCSA Protocols. Respond to all calls as
dispatched by the Communication Centre or as requested by other medical
professionals to assist with Intermediate Life Support of patient treatment.
Maintain best clinical practice in accordance with quality standards and
maintaining Continuous Professional Development (CPD). Maintain vehicle
and medical equipment, check the allocated vehicle and equipment and
complete the checklist, report all losses, damages and discrepancies to the
Shift Leader. Wash, clean and disinfect the interior/exterior of the vehicle and
maintain the vehicle in a clean condition and good working order at all times.
Change and replenish surgical sundries and medical gases and ensure that all
items are used before expiry date. Assist in maintaining a clean and tidy station.
Complete and submit all paperwork to the Shift Leader before the termination
of the shift or as required. Hand over the vehicle and equipment to the next
shift/relevant authority fully replenished, clean and in good working order.
Abide by the EMS Standard Operational Procedures. Actively participate in
training and quality assurance programs. Perform any other duties as
delegated by the supervisor. Candidates are expected to work shifts, they
should be mentally and physically fit to perform their duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
196
ANNEXURE U
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the Department.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z83 of
the Public Service Act, obtainable from any Public Service Department or any
Public Service Administration website. Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must
submit a fully completed Z83 and a detailed/comprehensive Curriculum Vitae,
indicating positions held, dates and key performance responsibilities. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of their
qualifications and relevant documents on or before the day of the interview
proceedings following communication from the Human Resource Management
Recruitment and Selection Unit. Failure to submit the requested documents or
information will result in your application not being considered. The
employment decision shall be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the
Northern Cape Department of Health. Should an applicant wish to apply for
more than one post, separate applications must be submitted for all posts. If
you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal
record, residential address, qualification verification and employment
verification). Where applicable, candidates will be subjected to a
skills/knowledge test. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the above post. The successful candidate will be expected
to sign a performance agreement. The Department of Health is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be
informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the
Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through
the filling of this post(s) with a candidate whose transfer / promotion /
appointment will promote representavity in line with the numerical targets as
contained in our Employment Equity Plan.
OTHER POSTS
POST 42/298 : PHARMACIST REF NO: NCDOH 145/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R848 862 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
Grade 2: R917 634 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
Grade 3: R1 001 349 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Springbok Hospital (Oncology Unit)
REQUIREMENTS : Basic qualification accredited with the South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC)
that allows registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist. Registration with the
SAPC as a Pharmacist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as
Pharmacist with the SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration as Pharmacist with a recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience after registration as a
Pharmacist with the SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 6 years’
relevant experience after registration as Pharmacist with a recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years’ relevant experience after registration as
Pharmacist with the SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 14 years’
relevant experience after registration as Pharmacist with a recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to perform relief duties at
pharmacies in the sub-structure. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge
of oncology protocols. Knowledge of National and Provincial Health Policies
and Pharmaceutical Acts and Laws. Ability to work accurately under pressure
and maintain a high standard of professionalism. Ability and willingness to train
197
staff. Good communication and interpersonal skills. Computer literacy. Valid
Driver’s Licence. Experience in cytotoxic reconstitution or oncology pharmacy
would be advantageous.
DUTIES : Dispense and validate cytotoxic and high-risk oncology medications in
accordance with GPP and institutional protocols. Collaborate with oncologists,
nurses, and allied health professionals to optimize pharmacotherapy. Monitor
adverse drug reactions and implement pharmacovigilance measures. Maintain
accurate records for oncology drug usage, stock levels, and cold chain
compliance. Participate in oncology audits, formulary reviews, and clinical
governance initiatives. Provide patient counselling and education on
chemotherapy regimens and supportive care. Perform relief duties. Provide
quality pharmaceutical care to patients by monitoring work procedures,
ensuring compliance to provincial code list and ensuring clinical service
delivery. Assist with medicine management in the sub-structure by ensuring
safe and reliable procurement, storage, control and distribution of quality
pharmaceuticals. Assist with managing pharmaceutical expenditure which
includes monitoring, evaluation and analysis of expenditure trends and
implement strategies to control expenditure within financial prescripts. Assist
with collating and interpreting pharmaceutical data for the sub-structure and
ensure representation of pharmacy services at all relevant meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D. Grootboom, Ms. EA Cloete Tel No: (027) 712 1601 / (027) 712 1078
(Namakwa District)
APPLICATIONS : Applications for Namakwa District: Application must be e-mailed to
namakwaapplications@gmail.com and hand delivered or couriered via postal
services to 7 Rivierstreet, Springbok, Postal address: Private Bag X10,
Springbok, 8240.
NOTE : Applicants must complete an application register when an application is hand
delivered.
POST 42/299 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER SPECIALTY REF NO: NCDOH 146/2025 (X1
POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Springbok Hospital (Oncology Unit)
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing
qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in
Oncology. Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/ recognisable experience in the specific specialty after obtaining
the 1-year post basic qualification in the relevant specialty. Valid Driver’s
Licence. Knowledge and training in Chemotherapy will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Coordination of optimal, holistic specialised nursing care provided within the
set standards and professional/legal framework. Manage effectively the
utilisation and supervision of resource both physical and human resources.
Coordination of the provision of effective training and research. Provision of
effective support of nursing services. Maintain professional growth/ethical
standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D. Grootboom, Ms. EA Cloete Tel No: (027) 712 1601 / (027) 712 1078
(Namakwa District)
APPLICATIONS : Applications for Namakwa District: Application must be e-mailed to
namakwaapplications@gmail.com and hand delivered or couriered via postal
services to 7 Rivierstreet, Springbok, Postal address: Private Bag X10,
Springbok, 8240.
NOTE : Applicants must complete an application register when an application is hand
delivered.
POST 42/300 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 & 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING) REF NO:
NCDOH 147/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 – R490 767 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 – R713 253 per annum
CENTRE : Springbok Hospital (Oncology Unit)
REQUIREMENTS : Professional Nurse Grade 1 and 2 (Specialty Nursing) In the following
specialties: Oncology; a Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in
198
nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a
Professional Nurse, post-basic/advanced nursing qualification, with duration of
at least 1 year accredited with the SANC in one of the specialties referred to
above. Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit current proof of registration with SANC
as a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period
referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific
specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant
specialty.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialised nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. To assist in planning/organising and
monitoring of the objectives of the specialised unit in consultation with
subordinates. To provide a therapeutic environment for staff, patients and the
public. To provide comprehensive, quality nursing care as a member of the
multi-disciplinary team according to the identified needs of the patient, based
on scientific principles. To delegate duties and support staff in the execution of
patient care delivery. To provide direct and indirect supervision of all nursing
staff / housekeeping staff and to give guidance. To ensure continuity of patient
care on all levels e.g. work book, handover rounds. To liaise and communicate
with the multi-disciplinary team as well as other departments within the hospital
e.g. during operational meetings with nursing supervisor and subordinates.
Participation in training and research. To assist in orientation, induction and
mentoring of all nursing staff and orientation of other staff. To assist in the
planning and co-ordination of training and promote learning opportunities for
all nursing categories i.e. on the job training. To complete patient related data
and partake in research. Provision of Support to Nursing Services. To assist
with relief duties of the supervisor and act as junior shift-leader on both day
and night shift. To partake in overall specialized unit functions, i.e. team
building. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
To maintain the Code of Conduct in Public Service, Professional Body. Seek
learning opportunities. In-service training.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D. Grootboom, Ms. EA Cloete Tel No: (027) 712 1601 / (027) 712 1078
(Namakwa District)
APPLICATIONS : Applications for Namakwa District: Application must be e-mailed to
namakwaapplications@gmail.com and hand delivered or couriered via postal
services to 7 Rivierstreet, Springbok, Postal address: Private Bag X10,
Springbok, 8240.
NOTE : Applicants must complete an application register when an application is hand
delivered.
199
ANNEXURE V
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTH WEST
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
The North West Provincial Treasury is an Equal Opportunity, Affirmative Action Employer and is
committed to the achievement and maintenance of diversity and equity in employment, especially in
respect of race, gender, and disability. Women, People with Disabilities and Youth are encouraged to
apply as the targeted groups as per our employment equity plan. The Employment Equity Plan for the
Department will be considered when filling vacant positions. It is our intention to promote representivity
of women in our SMS echelon.
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be forwarded to: The Director: Human Resource
Management, North West Provincial Treasury, Private Bag X2060, Mmabatho
2735, marked for attention: JM Moheta, K Chuma, or N Marengwa, 2nd Floor,
Garona Building. You can also email your application to
ptvacancies@nwpg.gov.za. The maximum limit is 35MB for applications to be
transmitted successfully, otherwise you will have to send more than one email.
When you submit by email, please put the reference number and post job title
in the subject line. The reference number should be indicated on the
application. If you apply for more than 1 post, please submit separate
applications for each post that you apply for. Applications should be submitted
on time. Applications received after the closing date will not be accepted and
considered.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025 at 16h00
NOTE : Applications must quote the relevant reference number and be submitted on
the NEW Z83 form, obtainable from any Public Service Department or the
DPSA website at https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ Should an
application be received using the incorrect application for employment (old
Z83), it will not be considered. The Z83 must be fully completed and signed
and accompanied by a comprehensive/ detailed recent Curriculum Vitae
(including full particulars of training, qualifications, certificates, skills,
competencies, and knowledge, specific starting and ending dates in all relevant
positions and clarity on the levels and ranks pertaining to experience as
compared to the Public Service). At least two contactable referees should be
provided. (Telephone numbers and email addresses must be indicated).
Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a detailed curriculum
vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
Identity Document, Qualifications, and training certificates as well as a driver’s
license where necessary. This must be submitted on or before the day of the
interviews. Non-SA citizens who are shortlisted must submit a copy of proof of
permanent residence in South Africa on or before the day of the interviews.
Failure to do so will result in your application being disqualified. Foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by a SAQA evaluation report on the
qualification. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications
evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such an evaluation report (only
when shortlisted). It will be expected of candidates to be available for interviews
and assessments on the date and time and at a place as determined by the
Department. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability
checks. The successful candidate will be subjected to undergo security vetting.
The Department will conduct reference checks which may include social media
profiles of the shortlisted candidates. The successful candidate will be
appointed subject to positive results of the security clearance process. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into an employment contract and
sign a performance agreement with the Department. All applicants are required
to declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and Directorships that they may be associated with and declare any
business they had or are conducting with an Organ of State. It will be required
by employees who fall within the designated groups to do financial disclosures
and submit such within three months of their appointment. Failure to comply
with the above requirements will result in the disqualification of the application.
Due to the large number of applications, we envisage receiving, applications
will not be acknowledged. Should you not be contacted within three (3) months
of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your application to be
unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment
process and not fill a position or re-advertise the posts at any time in the future.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. Requirements
200
for senior management posts (SL13-16): The requirements for appointments
at SMS level include the successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-
entry Programme as endorsed by the NSG. Prior to appointment, a candidate
would be required to complete the Nyukela Programme: Pre-entry Certificate
to Senior Management Services which is an online course, endorsed by DPSA
and the National School of Government (NSG). The course is available at the
NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS. The full details can be
sourced at the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-
pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course please visit
the NSG website at: www.thensg.gov.za. No appointment to an SMS post will
take place without the successful completion of the pre-entry certificate and
submission of proof thereof. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be
subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job, the logistics of which will be communicated by the
department. Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection
committee will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment (in compliance with DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments.) The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA competency assessment tools. Please note that women will
be targeted for SMS posts as per the Department’s Employment Equity Plan.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 42/301 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: SRM REF NO: NWFIN/2025/04
Programme: Sustainable Resource Management
Branch: Sustainable Resource Management
SALARY : R1 813 182 - R2 042 535 per annum (Level 15), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum an Honours Degree or Post Graduate Diploma in Finance/
Accounting/ Economics, or equivalent NQF 8 qualification (as recognised by
SAQA). Pre-entry Certificate for SMS submitted prior appointment. No
appointment will be made without such a certificate. Ten (10) years’ experience
of which a minimum of eight (8) years must be at senior management level.
Must have a valid driver’s license as it will be expected to travel. Sound
analytical, interpretive, and high-level communication skills. A proven track
record of the ability to multi - task and manage change, strategic planning,
business processes and efficiency, development and implementation of
monitoring and evaluation systems. Policy formulation and analysis, research,
report writing, co-ordination, leadership, facilitation skills, problem solving.
Organization skills, people management, financial management and systems
management. Planning, organization, and stakeholder relationship
management including the ability to liaise and operate within intergovernmental
context. Knowledge of Public Service Act, 1994 as amended and Public
Financial Management Act (PFMA). Deep understanding of intergovernmental
system and budgeting process in government.
DUTIES : Ensure policy formulation and implementation of adequate fiscal resources for
the utilization of the provincial government. Promote the effective and efficient
management of the provincial resources by developing, implementing,
monitoring, and evaluating systems for speed- up service delivery. Manage the
province’s fiscal resources actively and ensuring responsive, credible, and
sustainable budget and distribution of financial resources throughout the
provincial departments and public entities. Promote and ensure
budgetary/expenditure alignment to plans and priorities between the different
spheres of government. Oversee the provision of effective technical and
strategic support to infrastructure development and implementation processes
within the Departments. Ensure development of the economic analysis for both
the local and provincial spheres which will inform planning, decision making
and equitable resource allocations. Ensure the development, implementation,
and monitoring of the provincial revenue enhancement/collection strategies as
well as coordination of credible revenue budget. Ensure the development and
implementation of appropriate supply chain management strategies for the
provincial administration. Provide strategic and business planning leadership
to internal and external clients including directorates within the division.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. NI Kunene Tel No: (018) 388 4441
201
ANNEXURE W
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference.
OTHER POSTS
POST 42/302 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (ANAESTHESIOLOGY) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R 1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R 1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R 1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Registration with the professional
council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Grade 3: A minimum of
10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with
the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s license and willingness to travel
as part of the outreach program. Willingness to work after-hours to meet
operational requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Evidence of
cross-disciplinary teamwork and excellent interpersonal relationships.
Evidence of planning and execution of clinically relevant and impactful
research projects as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Evidence of
ability to supervise registrars in Anaesthesiology, including preparation for their
Fellowship examination in Anaesthesiology. Excellent communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide Perioperative Patient Care in the operating rooms and critical care
units at the standards required of a Specialist Anaesthesiologist. Teaching and
Lecturing of Anaesthesiology and Critical Care to Undergraduate students,
Postgraduate students and Peers. Evaluation of students and peers. Staying
abreast of latest developments in the field of Anaesthesiology and Critical Care.
Administration: Hospital and University related administrative tasks. Research
related to Anaesthesiology and Critical care, and related topics, which includes
facilitating the research component required by registrars by the HPCSA for
specialty registration and publishing in peer reviewed, accredited journals.
ENQUIRIES : Prof S Chetty, email: seanchetty@sun.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time registration as
Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
202
POST 42/303 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (UROLOGY) (TYGERBERG
HOSPITAL, PAARL HOSPITAL, WORCESTER REGIONAL HOSPITAL)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Urology. Registration with the professional council:
Registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Urology. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Urology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical
Specialist in Urology. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience
as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a
Medical Specialist in Urology. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s licence, willingness to travel between Tygerberg, Paarl, and
Worcester Hospitals, and participation in after-hours commuted overtime.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge and clinical expertise in
all aspects of Urology, including emergency, inpatient, outpatient, and theatre-
based care. Ability to work across multiple facilities within the Metro East and
Rural West/Central ecosystems, ensuring equitable access to specialist
urology services. Strong leadership, teaching, training, and mentoring skills for
undergraduate and postgraduate students, interns, and medical officers.
Capacity for service planning, clinical governance, and development of
protocols and SOPs. Administrative and communication skills to effectively
manage a clinical department across more than one facility. Research interest
and willingness to participate in quality improvement and academic activities.
Computer literacy, including use of electronic health record platforms (SPV,
HECTIS, ECCR, NHLS, etc.).
DUTIES : Provide inpatient, outpatient, emergency, and surgical urology services at Paarl
Hospital and Worcester Hospital per week with Commuted overtime performed
at Tygerberg Hospital according to the jointly funded service model. Perform
specialist-level urology services, including ward rounds, OPD, emergency
cover, surgical procedures, and after-hours work. Ensure effective clinical
governance: morbidity and mortality reviews, adverse event reporting, audits,
and protocol development in line with provincial guidelines. Support outreach
services to district hospitals within the Rural West and Rural Central
ecosystems. Participate in teaching and training of registrars, medical officers,
interns, and students rotating in urology. Collaborate with other surgical units
and hospital management to strengthen access, quality, and efficiency of
surgical care. Participate in clinical research, academic activities, and
continuous professional development (CPD). Contribute to the development of
sustainable urology services across the Metro and Rural platforms, ensuring
continuity of care when on leave and supporting skill transfer to junior staff.
ENQUIRIES : Prof A van der Merwe Tel No: (021) 938-4141 or email: arvdm@sun.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. This post will
be established on the Tygerberg Hospital staff establishment, with service
commitments shared between Paarl and Worcester Hospitals according to the
jointly funded governance agreement. Candidates must be willing to accept
allocation and rotation across the three hospitals. “Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time registration as Medical Specialist in
Urology with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
203
POST 42/304 : DEPUTY MANAGER NURSING (LEVEL 1 AND 2 HOSPITALS)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R1 028 091 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs)
CENTRE : Southern Cape TB Centre (Harry Comay Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
degree/diploma in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse.
Registration with the professional council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 9 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least 4 years of the period referred
to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience at management level.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Ability to
be on call and availability for Emergency situations. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Strategic nursing leadership, knowledge, ability to plan and
apply management processes for required outcomes. Clinical governance,
knowledge of quality assurance, infection control and occupational health and
safety issues. Corporate governance, knowledge of Human Resource
Management and Financial Management. Good communicate skills (verbal
and in written). MS packages (Word, Excel, Power Point and Outlook).
DUTIES : Provide strategic management and leadership within the nursing component
of Harry Comay Hospital and Uniondale. Provide Clinical Governance and
manage quality assurance and improvement of nursing care. Manage financial
resources and consumable resources for the designated areas. Manage
Human Resources in the relevant designated areas. Manage Nursing research
and both professional and nursing practice development.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Z North Tel No: (044) 814 -1126
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical and competency assessment. The
pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within Garden Route
District, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/305 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (ORTHOPAEDICS) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with the professional council: Registration
with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of who is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
204
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: Participate in the after-hours call system.
Competent and willing to work across disciplines if required. A valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s license. Research experience, presentations and publications
and having passed the FCS(SA)primaries. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Sufficient appropriate clinical experience in the management of Orthpaedic in-
and outpatients, since obtaining the degree of MBChB and after completion of
Orthopaedic rotations. Good work etiquette; excellent communication skills;
conflict management; cost-conscious care provision. Good technology and
computer skills; problem-solving experience; leadership and mentoring
experience. Performances of research or audits. Valid ATLS Certificate. Proven
knowledge of public health policies, guidelines, and related prescripts to
manage resources effectively.
DUTIES : Clinical service provision: Provide efficient and cost-effective clinical service of
high quality with a patient centered focus, addressing the burden of disease in
the Rural East Geographical Service area (GSA). Effective clinical
administration in maintaining high quality clinical patient records and reports.
Financial management by effective and efficient use of resources. Adhere to
requirements for all HR matters and Code of Conduct. Participate in the
teaching program. Be able to do Outreach clinics and theatre list on own. Active
participation in Research and Professional Development and clinical
governance activities in the unit. The desired candidate will be required to set
an appropriate example of an exemplary medical practitioner and serve as a
role model and clinical mentor to junior doctors and associated clinical staff,
supervising and teaching community service medical officers, interns and
medical students and liaise with consultants daily.
ENQUIRIES : Dr GGA Cappaert Tel No: (044) 802-4466
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time registration in a
specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within George Regional Hospital, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/306 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (ORTHOPAEDICS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Officer. Registration with the professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of who is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
205
recognised foreign Health Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: Participate in the after-hours call system.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Proven experience in principles of planning,
organizing and implementation. Proven knowledge of public health policies,
guidelines and related prescript to manage resources effectively. Competent
and willing to work across disciplines if required.
DUTIES : Ensure an efficient and cost-effective clinical service of high quality with a
patient centered focus and addressing the burden of disease in the Worcester
healthcare ecosystem. Ensure compliance by means of maintaining high
quality clinical records. Financial management by effective and efficient use of
resources. Adhere to requirements for all HR matters and Code of Conduct.
ENQUIRIES : Dr AJ Troskie Tel No: (023) 348-1121
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be required to complete a practical test. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Worcester Regional Hospital for a
period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/307 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (PLASTIC SURGERY)
(5-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs). (It will be expected of the successful
candidate to participate in a system of remunerated commuted overtime).
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirement of the job:
Commuted overtime is compulsory. Emergency and after hour call cover. FCS
(SA) part 1A and part 1B. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge,
expertise and experience with regards to providing services in Plastic Surgery.
Appropriate and sufficient clinical experience since obtaining the degree of
MBChB and after completion of internal rotations. Ability to work in a team
under pressure. Research experience. Experience in registrar General Surgery
or as a medical officer in Plastic Surgery.
DUTIES : Leadership. Teaching. Research. Clinical Governance. Clinical Service:
Patient care. Clinical Service: Operative.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Alexander, email: rabia.alexander@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post. Please ensure that you attach an updated CV.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
206
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as a Registrar will be
for a maximum contract period of 5 years. Employees in service who opt to
continue with their pension benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after
completion of their registrarship should they not be successful for advertised
Specialist positions. Should registration with the HEI as a student be
discontinued for any reason the appointment of Registrar also discontinues.
Applicants must indicate whether they have bursary obligations. Groote Schuur
Hospital has adopted the department’s ecosystem framing of its training
platform. Accordingly, all registrar appointments may be called upon to work
across this platform and may include rotations at Metro West and Rural East
hospitals. This includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, New
Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and
George Provincial Hospital. The Department of Health is guided by the
principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with disability are encouraged to
apply and an indication in this regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar
posts within the Department will be identified as part of the Affirmative Action
programme to create a representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable
procedures. Preference will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with
a valid identity document. Registrars will be required to register as post-
graduates with University of Cape Town according to the yearbook and
guidelines.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/308 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (6/8TH POST)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R751 011 per annum
Grade 2: R856 914 per annum
Grade 3: R991 764 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Hermanus Hospital, Overstrand Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualifications that allow
registration with the Health Professions Council (HPCSA)as a Medical Officer.
Registration with the professional council: Registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Officer. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Medical
Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees,
of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner
after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA
qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after
registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: A valid driver’s license (B/EB/C1). Availability
to travel to sub-district facilities to offer a service. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to function/make decisions independently and as part
of a multi-disciplinary team. Good communication, interpersonal relationships,
exceptional leadership and conflict resolution skills. Knowledge of relevant
legislation and policies of the Department of Health Western Cape. Knowledge
applicable to South African chronic diseases and care guidelines. Provision of
evidence-based care to the sub-district. Computer literacy. Competence in
performing district level procedures including (but not limited to): caesarean
207
sections. Competence in administering spinal and general anesthesia. Sound
knowledge of infectious and non-communicable diseases management,
maternal and child health care as well as emergency medical care including
adult, child and neonatal resuscitations. Knowledge in the management of
obstetric and gynecological emergencies, general medicine, general pediatrics
and district-level surgical cases. Knowledge in Primary Health Care services.
DUTIES : Deliver a general clinical service to Hermanus Hospital and PHC clinics and
healthcare facilities in the Overstrand sub-district. Provide outreach support to
PHC facilities in the sub-district. Responsible use of resources, including
laboratory and blood products and rational prescription of Medicines. Active
participation in the implementation of clinical governance strategies. Following
local guidelines and policies to practice evidence-based medicine. Display
good ethical conduct and professional and personal integrity. Actively
participate in good clinical practice, skills transfer, teaching and academic
opportunities related to the post. Deliver a general clinical service to a District
Hospital and PHC clinics. Ensure high-quality patient care including treatment
of patients in accordance with provincial protocols.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Perold Tel No: (028) 313-5203
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Overberg District, for a period of 3 months
from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/309 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Bergsig Clinic, Langeberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse with
Midwife. Post-basic qualification with duration of at least 1 year in Clinical
Nursing Science: Health Assessment: Treatment and Care, accredited with the
SANC (R48). Registration with the Professional Council: Registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A minimum of 9 years
appropriate/recognisable experience after registration as Professional Nurse
with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred to
above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the 1 year
post-basic qualification as mentioned above. Inherent requirements of the job:
Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
function independently in a multi-disciplinary team and the ability to direct the
team to ensure quality nursing care. Demonstrate an in-depth knowledge of
nursing and public service legislation. Knowledge of Human resource and
Financial policies and principles. Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel).
DUTIES : Manage, control, act in all the following facets of Health, support, security,
cleaning/infection control and ground services, personnel matters, including
supervision and Performance Management, Finances and Procurement.
Implement policies, prescripts, and protocols regarding the mentioned facets.
Plan and manage to practice a holistic health service on a short/medium/long
term basis. Render Clinical Services and organise a cost-effective service
daily. Ensure that all personnel undergo training according to their Individual
Development and Performance Plan and to meet the operational requirements
of the health facility and participate in Community awareness and health
screening activities. Recording, collection, verification and timeous submission
of accurate data and continuous positive support to the Primary Health Care
Manager.
208
ENQUIRIES : Ms. MP Williams Tel No: (023) 626-8542
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subject to a practical test. Candidates will be subjected to a
competency-based assessment. “The pool of applications will be considered
for vacancies within Langeberg Sub-district, for a period of three months from
the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/310 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (AREA CHRONIC WARD
MANAGEMENT)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Winelands TB Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse.
Registration with the Professional Council: Current registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 8 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 3 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience at
management level. Inherent requirements of the job: A Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Ability to perform compulsory stand-by duty. Willingness to
work overtime and assist with shifts when operationally required.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel) and
report writing skills. Excellent communication skills (verbal and written).
Knowledge of legislation relative to the Health Care Service and policies of the
Department of Health. Ability to manage own work, and that of the units which
report to the post, and to ensure appropriate interventions to enhance the
nursing service at the institution.
DUTIES : Ensure the delivery of high-quality patient care through the implementation of
different health programs. Participation in the analysis, formulation and
implementation of nursing guidelines, practices, standards and procedures.
Involvement in training programs in conjunction with Human Resources
Department for skills development. Collect, validate and interpret statistical
data. Manage Financial and Human resources in relevant nursing
departments. Co-ordinate and monitor critical hospital support function after
hours in collaboration with relevant role players and relieve Head of Nursing.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Van Rooyen Tel No: (023) 348-1309
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A practical and
a competency test will form part of the selection process. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Cape Winelands TB
Centre, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/311 : EMS SUB-DISTRICT MANAGER GRADE 2 TO 4
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : Grade 2: R562 119 per annum
Grade 3: R624 288 per annum
Grade 4: R690 465 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services, Garden Route District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 2: Successful completion of the
Emergency Care Technician Course (ECT) that allows registration with HPCSA
as Emergency Care Technician (ECT). Grade 3: Successful completion of the
Critical Care Assistant course (CCA) or National Diploma that allows
registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic. Grade 4: Successful completion
of the B-Tech Degree that allows registration with HPCSA as an Emergency
Care Practitioner (ECP). Registration with the professional council: Grade 2:
209
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as an ECT.
Grade 3: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as a
Paramedic. Grade 4: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa as an ECP. Experience: Grade 2: Minimum of 3 years' experience after
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as Emergency
Care Technician (ECT). Grade 3: Minimum of 3 years' experience after
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as a
Paramedic. Grade 4: Minimum of 3 years' experience after registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa as Emergency Care Practitioner
(ECP). Inherent requirements of the job: Valid code C1 driver’s license. Valid
professional driver’s permit (PrDP). Current registration as an ECT, Paramedic
or ECP. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of all levels of
emergency care protocols. Good communication and interpersonal skills.
Proven supervisory skills and competencies.
DUTIES : Effective management of emergency medical services for the Sub-District.
Effectively manage the Human Resource and Labour Relations function of the
District in relation to staff management. Manage the budget and the facilitation
of account payments for goods and services in line with the financial prescripts.
Maintain responsibility for the audit compliance with regards to Financial
Management and Supply Chain Management matters. Ensure effective
management of Emergency Fleet and equipment. Ensure effective
communication with regards to meetings, workshops, debriefs, compiling stats
and report writing and forging sustainable relationships with external
stakeholders. Effective support to District Manager and act in management
capacity when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J Jansen (District Manager – Garden Route) Tel No: (044) 802-2521 / Ms.
L Jacobs Tel No: (044) 802-2500
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates are
subjects to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Emergency Medical Services, for a period of three months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/312 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING:
OPERATING THEATRE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Hope Street Dental CDC (Oral Health), Southern Western Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma
/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post basic
nursing qualification with the duration of at least 1 year accredited with SANC
in Medical and Surgical Science: Operating Theatre Nursing. Registration with
the Professions Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate /recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate /recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/ recognisable experience in an Operating Theatre Unit after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification referred to above. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to carry small kids. Willingness to work in
Operating Theatre and Recovery room. Willingness to assist Dentist in surgery
when needed. Valid drivers’ licence. Willingness to provide oral service at
210
Wesfleur Hospital and other PHC facilities within the Southern Western
Substructure when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of
relevant legislation and policies of the Department of Health Western Cape.
Leadership towards realization of strategic goals and objectives of the theatre
with regards to emergency and non-emergency operating nursing as well as
day patient care.
DUTIES : Provide an optimal, holistic, specialised Nursing Care within set standards and
within a professional, legal framework as a Professional Nurse in an Operating
Theatre. Provision of a Quality Dental Service. Periodically supervise and
support effective utilization of Human Resources. Effective Supply Chain,
Asset and Data Management. Participate in training and Oral Health Promotion
activities. Practice Nursing and health care in accordance with the laws and
regulations relevant to nursing and health care. Support outreach services
done.
ENQUIRIES : Ms BF Gontsana Tel No: (021) 465-4017
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the required qualifications will be appointed into
the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary
qualifications within a predetermined period of time. “Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification: Medical and Surgical Nursing Science in Operating Theatre
Nursing.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/313 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Diazville Clinic, Saldanha Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
midwife. A post-basic qualification with a duration of at least 1 year Diploma in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited
with the SANC (i.e. R48). Registration with the Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and midwife. Experience:
Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing
after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific speciality after obtaining
the one-year post-basic qualification with the SANC. Inherent requirements of
the job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to work at other
Clinics, Satellites, mobiles within the sub-district, when required.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the Nursing Act and relevant
regulations. Knowledge of the Medicines Control Act, Mental Health Care Act,
Child Health Act and other relevant legislation.
DUTIES : Effective execution and assist with management of relevant Curative
Programmes within the scope of practice and to be an advocate for the patient
to ensure the provision of necessary health care. Effective execution and assist
with management of relevant Child Health within the scope of practice and to
be an advocate for the patient to ensure the provision of necessary health care.
Effective execution and assist in management of relevant Woman’s Health
Services within the scope of practice and to be an advocate for the patient to
ensure the provision of necessary health care. Effective execution and assist
in management of relevant HAST programmes within the scope of practice and
to be an advocate for the patient to ensure the provision of necessary health
211
care. Effective provision of high-quality services measured by outcomes of all
the quality assurance activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Louw Tel No: (022) 709-5057
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification: Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science, Health Assessment,
Treatment Care with the South African Nursing Council. The pool of applicants
will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the Saldanha-bay Sub-
District, for a period of three months from the date of advert, provided that the
job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same
as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/314 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING:
MATERNITY)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Swartland Hospital, Swartland Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 (Degree/Diploma in nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with SANC as Professional
Nurse and Midwife. A post-basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least
1 year, accredited with the SANC in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatology
Nursing. Registration with the Professional Council: Registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum
of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with
the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with
the SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing and at least 10 years of
the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in
the specific specialty after obtaining the1 year post basic qualification as
mentioned above. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts
and after hours (weekends, public holidays and night duty). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to function/make decisions independently and as part
of a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialised nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework: Effective utilisation of resources.
Participation in training and research. Provision of Support to Nursing Services.
Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Smeda Tel No: (022) 487-9331
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment.
“Candidates who are not in possession of the required qualifications will be
appointed into the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the
necessary qualifications within a predetermined period of time. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Advanced Midwifery and Neonatology Nursing. The pool
of applications will be considered for vacancies within Swartland Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
212
POST 42/315 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING:
PSYCHIATRY)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Ceres Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 Qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with (SANC) as a Professional Nurse with Psychiatry. A post basic nursing
qualification with a duration of at least 1year accredited with the SANC in
Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science. Registration with the Professional
Council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Psychiatry.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/ recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in Psychiatric after obtaining the 1- year
post basic qualification as mentioned above. Inherent requirement of the job:
Willingness to work overtime when necessary. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication, planning and interpersonal skills.
Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of the Department of Health
Western Cape Government. Skills to plan, organise and coordinate the service
by analysing, problem solving and decision-making. Leadership towards the
realisation of strategic goals and objective of Psychiatric Department.
DUTIES : Actively participate as a specialist nurse in the provision of acute and chronic
mental health care to clients of all age groups at Ceres Hospital. Make bio-
psychosocial health assessments that are culturally sensitive. Design and
implement treatment plans and critically evaluate outcomes. Promote and
maintain mental health and manage the effects of mental illness through
education, counselling and psycho-social rehabilitation. Participate in the
training and clinical supervision support of other health care providers.
Coordination of mental health forms and ensuring adherence to the prescribed
timeframes according to law.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GH Vermeulen Tel No: (023) 316-9600
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the required qualifications will be appointed into
the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary
qualifications within a predetermined period of time. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science with the South
African Nursing Council. “The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within Ceres Hospital, for a period of three months from the date of
the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/316 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HEALTH SUPPORT (QUALITY ASSURANCE)
Directorate: Assurance
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : (Head Office, Cape Town)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate National Diploma/ Degree
or equivalent in Health Sciences registerable with a South African Statutory
Health Professions Council or South African Nursing Council. Experience:
Appropriate administrative and health data management experience within a
health service environment. Appropriate experience in Quality Assurance
programme management in a health facility/sub-district/district or provincial
213
level will be an added advantage. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (Code
B/EB) driver's licence and willingness to travel throughout the Western Cape.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Relevant Acts & Regulations (National &
Provincial). Relevant Policies and Guidelines (National & Provincial). Excellent
interpersonal, communication and organisation skills. Excellent writing and
grammatical skills, such as editing and formulating of documents. Ability to
function independently and with confidence. Good team building skills within
and outside the Quality Assurance Component and Directorate Assurances.
Client and task orientated. Ability to efficiently operate computer programmes
such as Microsoft Word, Excel, Power Point and E-mail. Ability to communicate
eloquently (both verbal/Written).
DUTIES : Coordinate and facilitate the Implementation of QA strategies, policies,
practices and procedures. Facilitate the implementation of QA
programs/initiatives in health facilities which have been developed to address
identified gaps and those required by legislation. Assist health facilities with
achieving compliance with the Norms and Standards Regulations. Assist
facilities to comply with ideal health facility realization and maintenance
(IHFRM) programme elements. Improving the patient experience. Provision of
support with technical Quality of Care. Provide technical support to facilities
with the implementation of the Patient Safety Incident and Learning Guideline.
Draw annual reports from the web-based system. Monitor trends in patient
safety incidents. To provide a support service to the Deputy Director Quality
Assurance and management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Mnyapa Tel No: (021) 483-4205/ (081) 238-9118
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/317 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PEOPLE AND FACILITY MANAGEMENT
Garden Route District
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Oudtshoorn Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in all aspects of human resource
management and/or appropriate experience /exposure to Facility
Management/Support Service Management in a Hospital setting. Appropriate
management & supervisory experience. Appropriate PERSAL experience.
Appropriate experience in Contract Management and performance
management of Outsource Services. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
Code(B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound
knowledge of Human Resource policies, procedures, prescripts, HR audit
compliance prescripts, management of the Approved Post Lists (APL),
establishment control, Human Resource Development and Labour Relations.
Good communication skills (written and verbal). Strong managerial and
supervisory skills. Complex problem-solving skills. Judgement and decision-
making skills. Excellent computer skills in MS Office packages.
DUTIES : Ensure effective and efficient management and implementation of all aspects
of People Management, including People Development and Labour Relations.
Strategic, operational and financial management of all Support Services
including: Waste Management, Linen, Transport, Porters, Telecommunications
and Outsourced Services (Catering, Cleaning, Security, Waste Removal and
Pest Control) ensuring compliance with the applicable legislative frameworks.
Strategic, operational and financial management of Technical Services, Facility
Maintenance and Capital Infrastructure Projects. Provide strategic
management and leadership as member of the Executive Committee Team
and participate in executive management decision-making and planning.
Management of all aspects on Infrastructure and Estate Management from
conducting Risk Assessments and Disaster Management, to the development
of Business Plans to Project Management and the delivery of Infrastructure
Projects. Support to Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Dr CA Dreyer Tel No: (044) 203-7203
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical and competency assessment. The
214
pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within Garden Route
District, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/318 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (SYSTEM
MANAGER – BILLING AND MATERIALS)
Directorate: Health Information Technology
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town – HIS Application Support Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree IT or Finance. Experience: Appropriate experience of patient
administrative and billing procedures. Advanced experience working
experience on patient admin and billing systems. Appropriate working
experience and knowledge of the AR Billing system. Appropriate experience in
training and supporting system users. Appropriate knowledge/experience of
Hospital Fees and patient administration policies. Appropriate experience of
materials management. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s licence.
Willingness to travel within WCGHW health institutions. Willingness to work
overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication and
interpersonal skills. Ability to provide user training and support. Accurate data
capturing skills. Advanced computer literacy, including MS Office. Knowledge
of Accounts Receivable System, Clinicom, Materials Management.
Understanding of Business Process Re-engineering. In-depth understanding
of system maintenance and enhancement process flow. Understanding and
developing quality control processes. Proven ability to manage a team.
DUTIES : Manage and control the Billing System at all hospitals in the Western Cape.
Maintain and update master files, documentation, access control and print
management. Manage and ensure update of annual or ad-hoc tariff increase.
Liaise with HIS management, hospital IT, and other stakeholders. Provide end-
user support and resolve system problems. Update and maintain user manuals
and system procedures. Develop quality control script for system changes and
manage test process with formal outcome reporting. Develop system release
notices for system changes and ensure user awareness. Identify training needs
and provide training to users and core trainers. -Assist with data quality
assurance. Manage compliance of system release logs and exception reports.
Drive business process re-engineering in core systems across hospitals.
Support development and administration of new modules. Manage System
Controllers. Collaborate with the Finance teams to ensure compliance of
system to hospital fee and patient admin policy and manage new enhancement
requests to deployment where accepted. Provide ad hoc support to the Deputy
Director: eHealth Systems.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Maharaj Tel No: (021) 938-6513
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to undergo competency assessments/proficiency
tests, and no payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/319 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPORT SERVICES
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Winelands TB Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in a supervisory or managerial
position. Appropriate experience in contract management. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid Code B/EB drivers’ licence. Willingness to travel
and work overtime if needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent
written and verbal proficiency. Leadership capabilities, managerial and
organisational skills. Ability to manage conflict and function under pressure.
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and Internet). Good
interpersonal skills.
215
DUTIES : Effectively manage and supervise all Infrastructure maintenance and planning,
including the grounds and public areas. Manage all Support Services including
transport, telecommunications, linen & laundry and porter services. Contract
management of cleaning, security, grounds, pest control, linen & laundry and
waste management. Nurses Home residential management Responsible for
effective Food services rendering of the hospital Effective and efficient
management of Human and Physical Resources.
ENQUIRIES : Dr D Theron Tel No: (023) 348-1301
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisting
candidates may be subjected to a practical and competency test as part of the
interview process. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Cape Winelands TB Centre, for a period of three months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/320 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PROJECT MANAGEMENT (INFORMATION
MANAGEMENT)
Directorate: Information Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (Based at Tygerberg Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year Degree or diploma.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Willingness to travel. Experience: Appropriate experience and In-depth
knowledge in Information Management. Appropriate experience in
implementation of Systems in WCG. Advanced experience in Project
management and methodologies. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of Information Technology and computer hardware. Knowledge of
BMC call logging system. Advance knowledge in Project Management.
Advance Computer literacy (MS office suite) including MS Project. Familiar with
health information systems. Experience in systems training to individual and
large groups. Experience in governance management. Experience with
working with Project Management Office. Excellent numerical, analytical
communication, interpersonal and teamwork skills. Knowledge of Change
management. Knowledge of health services in the Western Cape. In Depth
Knowledge of system implementation. Excellent leadership skills. Excellent
report writing skills. Teamwork. Excellent time management.
DUTIES : Initiate, plan and monitor deliverables of the project. Oversee the
implementation of the project. Identify and mitigate risks in time for the project
to be successfully implemented. Participate in health Information Co-ordination
activities as a member of the information management team. Updating open
calls via BMC. Conduct and participate in meetings with facilities and other
stakeholders. Manage hardware rollout to facilities. Facilitate and assist with
Change Management and document all changes. Assist with work process
mapping and re-engineering. Manage governance processes to ensure
compliance, accountability, and effective implementation of eHealth systems.
Facilitate training to end users. Facilitate and provide hands on support to
eHealth systems, including assisting with access management, feedback to
managers and users, updating Project plans and writing reports. Provide end
user support for hardware, applications and systems. Provide regular update
to Project management office. Provide facilities with telephonic and online
support when needed.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Maharaj Tel No: (021) 938-6513
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates will be required to undergo competency assessments/proficiency
tests.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/321 : RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 TO 3 (DIAGNOSTIC)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
216
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Radiographer in Diagnostic Radiography. Registration with the Professional
Council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Radiographer
in Diagnostic Radiography in respect of RSA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession
(where applicable) in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2:
A minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA
as Radiographer in Diagnostic Radiography in respect of SA qualified
employees. A Minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable) in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Radiographer in Diagnostic
Radiography in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 21 years
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession
(where applicable) in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent
requirement of the job: Render a 40 - hour service as determined by the
department. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of protocols,
radiation protection, quality assurance and equipment safety. Good
interpersonal skills and perform effectively as part of a multidisciplinary team.
Knowledge of Patient Archiving and Communication Systems and Radiology
Information Systems.
DUTIES : Provide a Radiographic service. Produce diagnostic images of high quality.
Optimal patient care. Safe use and care of equipment. Accurate record
keeping. Assist with training of community service Radiographers and
students. Participate in continuing professional development activities.
Participate in a after hour service of the department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Arendse Tel No: (021) 799-1173: Roger.Arendse@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted with their job application/on appointment. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/322 : CLINICAL TECHNOLOGIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (NEUROPHYSIOLOGY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Clinical Technologist in Neurophysiology. Registration with the Professional
Council: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as a Clinical Technologist in Neurophysiology. Experience: Grade 1:
None after registration with the HPCSA in Clinical Technology in respect of RSA
qualified employees. One-year relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA in Clinical Technology in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South
Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience after registration
with HPCSA in Clinical Technology in respect of SA qualified employees.
Minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Clinical Technology in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
217
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3:
Minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Clinical Technology in respect of RSA qualified employees. Minimum of 21
years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in Clinical
Technology in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required
to perform community service as required in South Africa. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Excellent team player. Excellent interpersonal,
administrative, communication, analytical and problem-solving skills.
Advanced Knowledge in Neurophysiology, including objective
electrophysiological diagnostic assessment in EEG, NCS, LTM, Evoke
potentials (BAER/VEP/ERG) and Sleep investigations.
DUTIES : Perform various quality diagnostic procedures e.g. awake EEG, sleep EEG,
awake/sleep EEG, day telemetry and Nerve conduction studies,
electroretinograms, visual evoked potentials and auditory brainstem evoked
response on in patients and outpatients. Providing accurate interpretation and
reporting of neurodiagnostic procedures. Operate equipment and ensure the
correct function thereof as well as to trouble shoot. Liaise and collaborate with
the multi-disciplinary team, to support the delivery of best practice for patient
care. Management of all resources which included Assisting with maintenance
of equipment. Provide Professional education and training to staff. Contribute
and involvement with relevant research within the department.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Salie Tel No: (021) 658-5430; or email:
Moegamad.Salie@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/323 : DIETICIAN GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : False Bay Hospital, Southern Western Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions council of South Africa (HPSCA) as a
Dietician. Registration with the Professional Council: Registration with the
HPCSA as Dietician. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
HPCSA in respect of RSA-qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as a Dietitian in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service, as
required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as a Dietitian in respect of RSA-qualified
employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA as a Dietician in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it
is not required to perform community service, as required in South Africa.
Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as a Dietitian in respect of RSA-qualified employees. A minimum of 21
years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Dietician in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
community service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job:
Willingness to work as a Dietician within the multidisciplinary team at False Bay
Hospital. Valid (Code B/EB) drivers’ licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Thorough knowledge and exposure to all aspects relating to clinical Dietetics.
Good interpersonal, communication and organizational skills. Computer
literacy (MS Word/Excel/Powerpoint).
DUTIES : Clinical nutrition management of patients. Implement priority health
programmes. Development and implementation of training programmes.
Provide support to Food Services Department. General administration
including assisting with planning, reporting activities conducted, and monitoring
of nutritional programmes.
218
ENQUIRIES : Dr K Adamson Tel No: (021) 832-5265
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short-listed
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.”
This concession is only applicable to health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for a change in registration status). The
pool of applicants will be considered for other similar post within Metro Health
Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/324 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCE (DICU) (X10 POSTS)
Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3 - year National
Diploma/Degree in SCM, Finance, Accounting or Auditing with experience in
the key performance areas of the job. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Internal Control, Finance and Supply Chain Management environment.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) manual driver’s license.
Willingness to travel across the province. Competencies (knowledge/ skills):
The ability to interpret and apply financial and SCM policies, procedures, and
prescripts. Ability to compile reports and presentation thereof. Knowledge of
inventory, assets, irregular expenditure, commitments, and accruals
Knowledge of transfer payments Computer literacy (Microsoft Excel, Word,
PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Evaluate Accounting and Supply Chain transactions for correctness and
compliance with the legislative framework and financial prescripts. Evaluate
inventory within the institutions and ensure that all inventory/warehouse items
reconcile on the Accounting Systems of the department. Evaluate the use and
management of all assets in the institution and ensure that all assets are
correctly accounted for on accounting systems of the department. Report any
discrepancies found and assist Institutional management to implement
corrective measures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A. Moya, email address (Anele.Moya@westerncape.gov.za)
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/325 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate supervisory experience. Appropriate experience
within a support services component. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
(code B/EB) drivers’ licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication, interpersonal, organising skills and Computer literacy in MS
Office (Excel, Word and Power point) and MS Outlook and be able to supervise
multi-disciplinary teams, able to work under pressure and work in a very
physically demanding environment. Knowledge of government procurement
systems and contract management. Extensive knowledge of the Treasury
Regulations, Contract Management, PFMA, OHS and Public Service Acts as
well as extensive knowledge of Western Cape Government maintenance
protocols. Knowledge of SCM procedures, knowledge of LOGIS and working
knowledge of support services management or facilities management.
219
DUTIES : Effective and efficient management of Transport Services (Fleet), Porters &
Mortuary Services and Switchboard Service. General Support Services (key
control, parking control, fire equipment maintenance). Management of staff and
support to supervisor. Policy implementation and compliance (Occupational
Health & Safety, Ideal Hospital Framework, regulated norms & standards).
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Cornelius Tel No: (021) 834-5897
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for vacancies within (the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services), for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical, and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/326 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING) (X3
CONTRACT POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. Registration with the Professional
Council: Registration with SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1:
None after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience
in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience
in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, day and
night duty, weekends, and public holidays to meet the operational
requirements. Must be prepared to assist in all departments according to
operational requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Extensive
knowledge of Acts, policies, protocols and procedures with regards to quality
and legislative practices. Extensive knowledge of practices or regimes within
the relevant disciplines. Excellent verbal and written communication skills as
well as sound interpersonal skills. Ability to work effectively within a multi-
disciplinary team. Application of knowledge, skills and behaviour to complete
tasks accurately as well as maintaining high standard of care in managing care.
Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provision of Quality Nursing Care. Practice nursing and health care in
accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health care.
Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Cost Effective utilization of all human, financial and material
resources. Promote and participate in research. Provision of effective control
and utilization of equipment and stock.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Stanley: email: Liezel.Stanley@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status). Shortlisted candidates may be subjected to a
compulsory competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
220
POST 42/327 : PARAMEDIC GRADE 1 TO 4 (X5 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : Grade 1: R321 372 per annum
Grade 2: R397 308 per annum
Grade 3: R487 014 per annum
Grade 4: R570 267 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services, Metropole and Rural Districts
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 1: Successful completion of the
Critical Care Assistant (CCA) programmes that allows registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Paramedic. Grade 2:
Successful completion of the Critical Care Assistant programme or a
Recognized National Diploma that allows registration with the HPCSA as
Paramedic. Grade 3: Successful completion of the Critical Care Assistant
(CCA) programme or a Recognized National Diploma that allows registration
with the HPCSA as Paramedic or B Tech Degree that allows registration with
the HPCSA as Emergency Care Practitioner. Grade 4: Successful completion
of the Critical Care Assistant (CCA) programme or a Recognized National
Diploma that allows registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic or B Tech
Degree that allows registration with the HPCSA as Emergency Care
Practitioner. Registration with the professional council: Grade 1: Registration
with the HPCSA as Paramedic (CCA). Grade 2: Registration with the HPCSA
as Paramedic with CCA or National Diploma. Grade 3: Registration with the
HPCSA as Paramedic with CCA or National Diploma or ECP. Grade 4:
Registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic with CCA or National Diploma or
ECP. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as
Paramedic (CCA). Grade 2: 7 years after registration with the HPCSA as
Paramedic (CCA). None after registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic with
National Diploma. Grade 3: Registered Paramedic (CCA) - 14 years after
registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered Paramedic (NDip) - 7
years after registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic. Registered ECP–
None. Grade 4: Registered Paramedic (CCA) - 24 years after registration with
the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered Paramedic (NDip) - 17 years after
registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered ECP’s -10 years after
registration with the HPCSA as an ECP. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
code C1 driver’s license. Physical and mental fitness. Valid professional
driver’s permit (PrDP). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication
and interpersonal skills. Excellent knowledge of all levels of emergency care
protocols within the scope of registration category. Computer literacy and skills.
DUTIES : Provide quality and efficient roadside to bedside definitive emergency care
within defined emergency time frames within and across geographic and
clinical service platforms. Make use of all communication tools as provided by
the Employer to facilitate safe communication in relation to patient care
protocols. Effectively maintaining Admin Function: complete manual and
electronic patient care reports and trip authority log sheets. Maintenance of
Emergency Vehicles and Equipment. Ensure effective communication with
regards to patients, colleagues, other services and members of the Public.
Provide effective support to the supervisor and participate in own wellbeing.
ENQUIRIES : EMS Northern District Office – Mr. A Hickey Tel No: (021) 830-1150 / Mr. M
Solomons Tel No: (021) 830-1149
EMS Western District Office – Mr. A Lund Tel No: (021) 508-4508 / Mr. J Calvert
Tel No: (021) 508-4507
EMS Southern District Office – Mr. M Mdzeke Tel No: (021) 374-2316 / Mr. K
Ndiki Tel No: (021) 374-2316/7
EMS Eastern District Office – Mr. M Petersen Tel No: (021) 361-6568 / Ms N
Mlatsha Tel No: (021) 816-8807
EMS West Coast District Office – Mr E. Pedro Tel No: (022) 433-8853 / Ms S.
Andrew Tel No: (022) 433-8853
EMS Winelands District Office - Mr I. Naidoo Tel No: (023) 346-6000 / Ms A.
Botha Tel No: (023) 346 6022
EMS Overberg District Office – Ms Y Avontuur Tel No: (028) 312-3219/ Mr M
Jacobs Tel No: (028) 284-9100
EMS Garden Route District Office – Mr J Jansen Tel No: (044) 802-2517 / Ms
L. Jacobs Tel No: (044) 802-252
EMS Central Karoo District Office – Mr J. Jansen Tel No: (023) 449-8202 / Ms
L. Fortuin Tel No: (023) 449-8209
221
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates are
subjects to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Emergency Medical Services, for a period of three months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/328 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST BASIC) GRADE 1 TO 3
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R264 750 per annum
Grade 2: R306 411 per annum
Grade 3: R330 540 per annum
CENTRE : Matzikama Sub-district (Roving Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: A qualification that allows registration with
the SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) Institutional or Pharmacist
Assistant (Post Basic), as required by the training facility and the South African
Pharmacy Council (SAPC). Registration with the Professional Council:
Registration with the South African Pharmacy Council as Pharmacist Assistant
(Post-Basic) or as Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) (Institutional).
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the SAPC as Pharmacist
Assistant (Post-Basic). Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience
as Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) after registration with the SAPC. Grade
3: A minimum of 13 years appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant
(Post-Basic) after registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license.
Willingness to travel daily between all Clinics and satellite Clinics in the Sub-
district and provide relief duties as Pharmacist Assistant (Post Basic).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel,
PowerPoint and Outlook). Ability to perform duties accurately under pressure,
maintain a high standard of professionalism, work independently and as part
of a multi-disciplinary team. Excellent communication skills and interpersonal
relationships. Knowledge of National and Provincial Health policies, Medicines
Act (101 of 1965), Pharmacy Act (53 of 1974) and appropriate clinical and
pharmaceutical knowledge.
DUTIES : Manage drug supply in the Clinic. Dispensing and issuing of medicine.
Collection of all pharmacy related data for M&E purposes. Support to
supervisor and colleagues in the Sub-district. Quality Assurance.
ENQUIRIES : Dr JE Eygelaar Tel No: (027) 213-4070
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Matzikama Sub-district, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
222
POST 42/329 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A TO C (PAINTER)
SALARY : Grade A: R243 597 per annum
Grade B: R285 816 per annum
Grade C: R332 061 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Trade Test Certificate.
Experience: Grade A: No experience required. Grade B: At least 18 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in the area after obtaining the relevant
Trade Test Certificate. Grade C: At least 34 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in the area after obtaining the relevant Trade Test Certificate.
Inherent requirements of the job: A valid vehicle driver’s license. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Conversant with the requirement of the Machinery and
Occupational Health and Safety Act. Ability to plan-ahead (pro-active). Must
comply with in-house systems and procedures.
DUTIES : Responsible for the exterior and interior preparation and painting works of the
building and premises. Responsible for the control over equipment, stock and
other tools used within the workshop. Render assistance to Artisan Foreman
with regard to all functions (including admin work) of the division. Give
feedback to supervisor on building and painting maintenance issues. Assist in
supervising, training and development of staff. Perform standby duties when
necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Johnson Tel No: (021) 658-5481
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind will be required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/330 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (PHARMACY SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Southern Western Sub-Structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administration experience in a Health Care
environment. Experience as a support clerk to the Manager. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (Ms Office package) Word, Excel,
PowerPoint & MS TEAMs. Good Planning and organisational skills. Knowledge
about & practical experience in Pharmacy Information Systems. Good
interpersonal skills & the ability to maintain professional relationships with
clients. and external stakeholders like Private providers, Old Age Homes and
NPO’s.
DUTIES : Effectively renders an administrative support service to the Pharmacy
Manager. Rendering administrative support with regards to Pharmacy
Information. Management Systems, Private Providers administrative, ordering
of consumables. (pharm & non-pharm) using MEDSAS, Supply Chain LOGIS,
etc. Effective and efficient utilization of all resources (Placement of Roving staff,
locum budget, etc.) Effective and efficient support to the Pharmacy Manager,
Primary Health Care facilities Pharmacy Supervisors. Ensure and maintain
professional relationships with Staff, internal and external service providers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. A Joseph Tel No: (021) 2020 981
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/331 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT SERVICES (LINEN MANAGEMENT)
Directorate: Facilities Management
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Sub-Directorate: Laundry Services (Head Office, Cape Town)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
experience/competencies that focuses on the Key Performance Areas (KRA’s)
of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in general office administration
functions. Appropriate experience in the accurate counting and auditing.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid EB drivers’ licence. Willingness
223
travelling away from home. Willingness to work long hours sometimes.
Industrial Laundry and linen management experience essential. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in MS Word and Excel. Good written and
communication skills. Ability to work under pressure and to meet deadlines.
Knowledge of the Western Cape linen management and Control Policy.
DUTIES : Conduct regular linen audits at hospitals and health institutions with-in the
Western Cape Province. Administrative functions – compile linen shortage and
surplus reports, Update linen inventories of facilities. Provisioning
administration - Assist with ordering and control of linen stocks and other office
related requirements/materials. Contact functions - Liaise with the laundries
and institutions to ensure effective linen control.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J van der Riel Tel No: (021) 918-1626
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/332 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (QUALITY ASSURANCE (IPC)
Directorate: Assurance
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administrative and data management experience
within a health service and/or business Environment. Inherent requirement of
the job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver's licence and willingness to travel throughout
the Western Cape. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Acts & Regulations
(National & Provincial). Policies and Guidelines (National & Provincial).
Excellent interpersonal, communication and organisation skills. Excellent
writing and grammatical skills, such as editing and formulating of documents.
Ability to function independently and with confidence. Good team building skills
within and outside the Quality Assurance Component and Directorate
Assurances. Client and task orientated. Ability to efficiently operate computer
programmes such as Microsoft Word, Excel, Power Point and E-mail. Ability to
communicate eloquently (both verbal/written).
DUTIES : Office administration, good financial record keeping and stock control. Ensure
supplies and resources are available. Prioritization of delegated tasks. Easy to
follow and neat filling system. Maintain the electronic filing system. Maintain an
inventory of office equipment. Update the ASD diary. Arranging and
rescheduling appointments. Prepare documents required for appointments.
Ensure meetings and appointments do not overlap. Know the organogram of
the Department (At National, Provincial and Districts) to understand the line of
authority. Keep the supervisor informed of any changes and pressing matters
or urgent matters. Prioritize meetings Keep detailed messages to ensure
proper feedback Confirms meetings with relevant stakeholders and meeting
attendees. Prepare notes and paperwork needed for the meetings and have it
ready for the supervisor. Ordering of stationery and supplies and completion
for relevant forms e.g. Logis. Complete ST claims and keep record. Stock well
controlled, no wastage or stockout. Plan and organize meetings, compile
agendas and minutes: Arrange transport and accommodation as needed.
Organize and arrange virtual meetings and Teleconferences. Prepare
supporting documents for the meetings. Contacting attendees and
stakeholders to attend meetings. Prepare minutes of the last meeting and
ensure that the draft is sent to supervisor timely and distribute final minutes to
meeting attendees. Send out request for agenda items and send out finalized
agenda. Keep attendance registers and distribute when required. Keep
record/minutes of all meetings. Arrange the venue and needed equipment and
have knowledge of operating equipment. Prepare draft presentations. Typing
general correspondence and keep a filling system: Follow the policy of the
department- filing of hard and soft copies. Know when to destroy or send
documents for archiving in line with departmental policies. Keeps a backup
system for all the files. Maintains a good filling system. Drafting of Quarterly
reports, requests and prepare monthly and quarterly statistics: Type and format
draft monthly, quarterly and annual reports. Keep an updated database of all
IPC related: Provincial reports categorized into Districts/Substructures/Facility
etc. Maintain an annual plan for reports due date and activities. Develop and
maintain a data system for the province. Keep an updated IPC Provincial health
224
facility human resource register. Follow up on monthly and random reports
submissions. To provide a support service to the ASD QA(IPC) and Deputy
Director Quality Assurance/management: Execution of tasks as delegated by
the ASD QA (IPC) and/or DD QA/management. Follow up on queries with
NDoH and other stakeholders. Draw reports from the Ideal Health Facility
Website, Sinjani, OHSC etc. Follow up on parliamentary enquiries and
requests from the HOD as directed by your supervisor or DD.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Mnyapa Tel No: (021) 483-4205/ (081) 238-9118
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/333 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (STORES)
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape Health Warehouse (Head Office, Cape Town)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimal Education Qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate experience within a warehouse environment. Inherent requirement
of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to collate, verify data, work accurately and methodically. Good
interpersonal and organisational skills. Computer skills (MS Word, Excel and
Outlook). Knowledge and practical experience in LOGIS and Basic Accounting
System (BAS). Knowledge of administrative and/or support duties in a
store/warehouse. Knowledge in administration and rendering support services
in a store or warehouse. Appropriate experience in handling stock in a
store/warehouse environment.
DUTIES : Render an effective and efficient administrative support service in the Western
Cape Health Warehouse. Render effective and efficient Warehouse related
support functions. Render an effective and efficient inventory management
service. Keeping abreast and record relevant and Departmental
prescripts/policies and procedures, and any other ad-hoc administrative tasks
as required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Y Fisher Tel No: (021) 833-7600
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates will
be required to do a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/334 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in facilities management. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication, both verbal and written and good
interpersonal and negotiation skills. Innovative, hardworking and ability to
organise and manage time. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint
and e-mail) and basic knowledge of LOGIS capturing, Treasury Instructions,
Departmental Instructions and Management of waste.
DUTIES : Act as liaison officer between Hospital and workshops regarding maintenance
of building, equipment and machinery. Responsible for obtaining quotations for
building and ground maintenance and services, including liaising with
contractors, facilitate site meetings, research and compile specifications for
advertising through data bases or IPS. Responsible for entry level LOGIS
capturing as well as keeping of registers and databases. Monitor buildings and
grounds for Health and Safety risks. Assist the division with general support
service functions, including key control, servicing of the equipment and
systems, and IT administration.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Basson Tel No: (021) 918-1976
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
225
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The
pool of applicants will be considered for vacancies within (the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services), for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/335 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS (PATIENT ADMINISTRATION)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent
qualification). Experience: Appropriate experience in a Patient Administration
environment. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts
including weekends, public holidays and night shift including overtime as per
operational needs. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy.
Knowledge of Hospital Fees policies and procedures. Good interpersonal and
communication skills. Ability to work both independently and within a team.
DUTIES : Clinicom patient reception functions that include attendances & disposals as
per PGWC Hospital Fees policies and procedures Booking of appointments &
patients transport on Healthnet. Attending to patient queries (both verbal and
written). Responsible for receiving, handling and safekeeping of state money
Various Reception tasks or duties assigned to you by immediate supervisor as
required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Sedres Tel No: (021) 799-1144
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the department, for a period
of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/336 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (CLINICAL
PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as passed subject or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with appropriate experience that focuses on the Key Performance
Area's (KRA's) of post. Experience: Appropriate experience in Supply Chain
Management (the procurement and provisioning of goods and services in the
Public Sector) or appropriate experience and knowledge of using the Electronic
Procurement System (EPS) quotation tool. Appropriate experience and
understanding of clinical consumables and services within a healthcare
environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Physical ability to pick up heavy
boxes. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and
communication skills. Ability to communicate effectively (verbal and written).
Must have computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook). Knowledge of,
and exposure to the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), AOS, PT, NT
instructions and regulations. Knowledge and experience of the EPS, Syspro/
Logis procurement system. Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines.
Good organizational skills. Attention to detail. Reading and writing skills very
vital. Must be able to carry out written and verbal instructions and apply
common sense and logic.
DUTIES : Assist end users with complaints. Record and file all complaints. Update and
maintain the Complaints Register. Capture and type equipment list from
Nursing staff. Assist end users with completing specification templates. Provide
admin support in preparing specifications. Provide representatives names to
head office for BSC committees. Assist CPS with evaluation process of EPS
and tender samples. Complete tender and EPS sample spreadsheets. File
EPS evaluation forms and keep proper records. -Record and store samples
safely. Keep storeroom neat and tidy. Keep updated records of all contracts
226
(Institutional, Transversal, and National). Arrange and schedule meetings.
Arrange venues and transport for meetings. Capture and update stock codes
for buyout items. Assist in the disposal of not awarded samples. Obtain
quotations for consumables via the EPS procurement system. Place orders at
companies using the SYSPRO system. Complete entries on all kinds of
procurement documents, registers and purchasing schedules. Keep
department filing system up to date.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Solomons Tel No: (021) 938-4938
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/337 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (ASSETS)
Overberg District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Overberg District Office, Caledon
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competences that focus on the key
performance areas of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in Supply
Chain Management environment. Appropriate experience in LOGIS and the
EPS. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid B/C/C1/EB driver’s license. Ability
to work in a physically demanding environment. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the LOGIS System, Asset Management
functions and functional experience in obtaining quotations on an electronic
purchasing system (EPS). Computer literacy (MS Excel and Word). Good
communication skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : Perform tasks related to procurement administration, such as inviting quotes
on EPS, placing of orders, preparing quotes for Quotation Committee and
follow-up with suppliers. Asset Management to be performed in the Overberg
District which includes proper management of assets pertaining to annual
asset count, updating asset register, disposals, capturing relevant
documentation on LOGIS and keeping updated filling of all relevant
documentation. Support and Compliance Monitoring within the Overberg
District Receive services and preparing batches for payment. Ensure
compliance with all relevant laws and prescripts related to the Supply Chain.
Handle all telephone and written queries from relevant suppliers and end users.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Honeyabll Tel No: (028) 214-5800
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/338 : EMERGENCY CARE OFFICER GRADE 1 AND 3 (BAA/AEA) (X7 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : Grade 1: R187 488 per annum
Grade 3: R217 983 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services, Metropole & Rural Districts
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 1: Successful completion of an
appropriate Basic Life Support (BLS) course that allows registration with the
HPCSA as Basic Ambulance Assistant (BAA). Grade 3: Successful completion
of an appropriate Intermediate Life Support (ILS) course that allows registration
with the HPCSA as Ambulance Emergency Assistant (AEA). Registration with
the professional council: Grade 1: Registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa as an BAA. Grade 3: Registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa as an AEA. Experience: None after
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
BAA or AEA. Inherent requirements of the job: Physical and mental fitness.
Valid professional driver’s permit (PrDP). Valid code C1 driver’s license.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent knowledge of all levels of
emergency care protocols. Good communication and interpersonal skills.
227
DUTIES : Provide quality and efficient roadside to bedside definitive emergency care
within defined emergency time frames within and across geographic and
clinical service platforms. Make use of all communication tools as provided by
the Employer to facilitate safe communication in relation to patient care
protocols. Effectively maintaining Admin Function: complete manual and
electronic patient care reports and trip authority log sheets. Maintenance of
Emergency Vehicles and Equipment. Ensure effective communication with
regards to patients, colleagues, other services and members of the Public.
Provide effective support to the supervisor and participate in own wellbeing.
ENQUIRIES : EMS Northern District Office – Mr. A Hickey Tel No: (021) 830-1150 / Mr. M
Solomons Tel No: (021) 830-1149
EMS Western District Office – Mr. A Lund Tel No: (021) 508-4508 / Mr. J Calvert
Tel No: (021) 508-4507
EMS Southern District Office – Mr. M Mdzeke Tel No: (021) 374-2316 / Mr. K
Ndiki Tel No: (021) 374-2316/7
EMS Eastern District Office – Mr. M Petersen Tel No: (021) 361-6568 / Ms N
Mlatsha Tel No: (021) 816-8807
EMS West Coast District Office – Mr E. Pedro Tel No: (022) 433-8853 / Ms S.
Andrew Tel No: (022) 433-8853
EMS Winelands District Office - Mr I. Naidoo Tel No: (023) 346-6000 / Ms A.
Botha Tel No: (023) 346-6022
EMS Overberg District Office – Ms Y Avontuur Tel No: (028) 312-3219/ Mr M
Jacobs Tel No: (028) 284-9100
EMS Garden Route District Office Mr J Jansen Tel No: (044) 802-2517 / Ms L.
Jacobs Tel No: (044) 802-2521
EMS Central Karoo District Office – Mr J. Jansen Tel No: (023) 449-8202 / Ms
L. Fortuin Tel No: (023) 449-8209.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be expected to undergo a practical assessment. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status. The pool of applicants will be considered
for other similar vacant posts within Emergency Medical Services for a period
of 3 months from the date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/339 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Michael Mapongwana CHC and Kleinvlei CHC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Registration with the professional council:
Registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Staff Nurse with the SANC. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as Staff Nurse
with the SANC. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work overtime,
shifts and do night duties. Willingness to rotate within the Sub Structure as per
operational requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic
communication skills (both written and verbal). Ability to function as part of a
team. Good human relations. The ability to render nursing care of an
acceptable and safe standard.
DUTIES : Develop and implementation of basic patient care plans. Provide basic clinical
nursing care. Effective health promotion and information to patient/client and
community. Effective utilization of physical and financial resources. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self- development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Jacobs Tel No: (021) 363-2814
228
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration with the
SANC (including individuals who must apply for change of registration status).
The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within Khayelitsha
Eastern Sub-structure, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/340 : STERILIZATION OPERATOR: PRODUCTION (DENTAL NURSING
SUPPORT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Service
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Oral Health Centre, Tygerberg/Mitchell’s Plain
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC) or Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in Sterilization
department in a hospital setting. Inherent requirement of the job: Ability to
handle heavy objects e.g. transporting packs and instruments trays to various
areas. Ability to understand infection control procedures. Ability to operate
equipment according to instructions. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication skills with staff and students. Good interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Receive, control, clean, pack and sterilize instruments. Selecting, combining
and packing of sets. Monitor, test and operate sterilizers and instrument
washing machines correctly. Ensure the effective functioning of equipment.
Effective and efficient rotation of sterile supplies. Report shortage, broken and
faulty instruments. Provide an effective and efficient support to supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Xhanti Tel No: (021) 370-4500 or Thembisa.Xhanti@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates will be subjected to a written and oral assessment. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/341 : GROUNDSMAN
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic numeracy and literacy. Must be able
to read and write. Experience: Appropriate experience in keeping Engineering
Plantrooms and Service Yards neat and tidy. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work Team player with a responsible attitude. Must be of sober
habits. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work independently and
under pressure. Ability to plan ahead (pro-active), work independently as well
as in a team and it would be required to learn and comply with in-house
systems and procedures. Strict adherence to the Occupational Health and
Safety Act. Familiarity with general cleaning equipment and maintenance
practices.
DUTIES : Perform duties to maintain the Engineering Plantrooms and Service Yards.
Clean drains, gutters, and outdoor areas to also ensure a safe and tidy
environment. Assist in relocating Engineering plant machines and equipment.
Assist to the removal and management of general and domestic waste.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Johnson Tel No: (021) 658-5481
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
229
NOTE : No payment of any kind will be required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/342 : DRIVER (LIGHT DUTY VEHICLE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Helderberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic reading, writing and numeracy skills.
Experience: Appropriate experience as driver in an hospital environment.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) drivers’ license with PDP.
Willingness to perform standby and overtime to meet the operational
requirements. Good knowledge of road network in the Peninsula. Access to
lock-up garage at residence or behind locked gates. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer Literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel, Outlook). The
ability to communicate effectively. Applied knowledge of the Transport
Handbook 1 of 2009.
DUTIES : Perform standby duties after-hours (including weekends). Responsible for
completion of vehicle log sheets. Assist Transport Officer with basic
administrative and general tasks. Responsible for basic maintenance of
vehicles (cleaning, reporting of defects, take vehicles for services and repairs,
etc). Transport goods/personnel and services from one point to another.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D. Brecht Tel No: (021) 850-4750
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/343 : CLEANER (X2 POSTS)
Overberg District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Hermanus CDC; Overstand Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate cleaning experience in a hospital/ clinic/hospitality environment.
Inherent requirements of the job: Physically able to lift and move heavy objects.
Ability to operate machinery and equipment. Relief duties in other departments.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the correct methods of
handling and disposal of refuse/waste products and adherence to policy and
cleaning practices. Excellent communication Skills (verbal and written). Good
interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Maintain a high standard of neat and hygienic environment in facility as stated
in a weekly/daily/quarterly and six-monthly schedule according to IPC Policy.
Maintain cleaning and maintenance of equipment. Ensure the correct waste
containers are used according to the correct waste. Effective and correct
handling of suppliers, equipment and cost-effective use of
resources/consumables. Provide support during outreaches and campaigns.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Magele Tel No: (028) 313-5700
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
POST 42/344 : MESSENGER
Garden Route District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Mossel Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience:
Appropriate messenger experience in hospital environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work in different departments when
needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic computer literacy skills. A
strong sense of confidentiality and trustworthiness. Appropriate knowledge of
folder management procedures. Good communication and interpersonal skills.
Ability to work independently and follow instructions.
230
DUTIES : Deliver and collecting of post and packages from different departments. Assist
with general office support tasks. Assist patient administration and records. Ad
hoc duties as when required from your supervisor. Support to supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Jacobs Tel No: (044) 604 - 6103
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written assessment. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 28 November 2025
231