PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 39 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 24 OCTOBER 2025
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge
and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH
IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative
action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied.
Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the
filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment
in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENT : PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC
WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE: Kindly note that the emails addresses provided on
the vacant posts which were advertised in DPSA Public Service Vacancy Circular 37 of
2025 posted on 10 October 2025 have been correctly re-captured in the following manner
hereunder: The Post: Assistant Director: Labour Relations Directorate: Legal Services
And Labour Relations: Ref: Pwi 25/33 e-recruitmentfsdpwi02@fsworks.gov.za and Post:
State Accountant: Debt And Loss Control Directorate: Finance: Ref No: PWI 25/34 E-
Recruitmentfsdpwi02@Fsworks.Gov.Za and Post: Secretary: Director Research Ref No:
PWI 25/35 e-recruitmentfsdpwi01@fsworks.gov.za and Post: Supervisor: Cleaning
Services Directorate Operational Property And Housekeeping Centre: Motheo/Xhariep
(X3 Posts): Ref No: PWI 25/36 and Thabo Mofutsanyane: (X3 Posts): Ref No.: Pwi 25/37
E-Recruitmentfsdpwi01@Fsworks.Gov.Za and Post: Cleaner Directorate Operational
Property And Housekeeping Centre: Motheo/Xhariep (X20 Posts): Ref No: PWI 25/38
and Thabo Mofutsanyane: (X3 Posts): Ref No.: PWI 25/39 and Fezile Dabi X3 Posts:
Ref No.: PWI 25/40 e-recruitmentfsdpwi@fsworks.gov.za Closing Date extended to 07
November 2025
2
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
BASIC EDUCATION A 04 - 05
CIVILIAN SECRETARIAT FOR POLICE SERVICE B 06 - 07
COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE C 08 - 13
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR D 14 - 16
FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT E 17 - 25
GOVERNMENT TECHNICAL ADVISORY CENTRE F 26 - 28
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING G 29 - 30
HOME AFFAIRS H 31 - 33
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT I 34 - 38
LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT J 39 - 42
NATIONAL TREASURY K 43 - 52
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE L 53 - 67
PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE M 68 - 72
SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT N 73 - 74
WATER AND SANITATION O 75 - 81
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
EASTERN CAPE P 82 - 129
FREE STATE Q 130
LIMPOPO R 131 - 157
MPUMALANGA S 158
NORTHERN CAPE T 159 - 160
NORTH WEST U 161 - 200
WESTERN CAPE V 201 - 230
3
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF BASIC EDUCATION
The Department of Basic Education is committed to providing equal opportunities and practicing
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote equity through the filling of all numeric
targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication
of race, gender and disability status is required. Preference will be given to underrepresented groups as
per the DBE Employment Equity Targets. Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Submitted via post to: Private Bag X895, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-deliver to: The
Department of Basic Education, 222 Struben Street, Pretoria or you can email
your application at Recruitment@dbe.gov.za. Please visit the Department of
Education’s website at www.education.gov.za or the Department of Public
Service and Administration vacancy circulars at www.dpsa.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr M Segowa Tel No: (012) 357 4291 or Ms N Monyela Tel No: (012) 357 3294
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the most recently approved Z83 Application
for Employment Form, obtainable from the DBE Website or any Public Service
Department/Webpage. Use of the old Z83 Form will result in disqualification.
The Z83 must be completed in full and page 2 duly signed. A clear indication
of the post and reference number that is being applied for must be indicated
on your Z.83. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 with a
detailed Curriculum Vitae (only). Certified copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents will be requested from shortlisted candidates on or before
the day of the interview. Successful candidates will be subjected to Personnel
Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset record checks,
qualification and employment verification including social media profiles).
Appointment is subject to positive results of the security clearance process.
The successful candidate will be required to sign an annual performance
agreement and, where applicable, annually disclose his/her financial interests.
All applicants are required to declare any conflict or perceived conflict of
interest, to disclose memberships of Boards and directorships that they may
be associated with. Applicants who do not comply with the requirements
outlined above, will not be considered. Applications received after the closing
date and faxed applications will not be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 39/01 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (MR6) REF NO: DBE/15/2025
Branch: Finance and Administration
Chief Directorate: Legal and Legislative Services
Directorate: Legal Services
SALARY : R586 956 – R1 386 972 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : The applicant must be in possession of an appropriate recognised LLB degree
and must be admitted as an Attorney or Advocate; At least eight (8) years
appropriate post qualification experience in the legal field with specific focus
on litigation, drafting of contracts and drafting of opinions; Applicant must have
a credible management experience in the legal field with specific focus on
litigation; Knowledge of the Public Service and applicable legislation, including
the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations,
Promotions of Administrative Justice Act; Knowledge of civil procedure, law of
contracts; Problem solving, good presentation, good communication (verbal
and written) and strong analytical skills; Willingness to work irregular hours and
skills in interpretation of statues and conducting research.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing and administering
legal advice/opinions in the Department, conducting research on policy,
legislation and legal principles; Providing legislative support to provincial
education departments; Providing legal education to departmental officials;
Providing legal advice, guidance and opinions on legal matters to the Minister,
Senior Management and the rest of the Department; Drafting and/or amending
legal documents including primary and secondary legislation that is
administered by the Department, and piloting such legislation through
Parliament; Commenting on draft legislation of other departments, when so
4
requested; Monitoring, coordinating and evaluating the effective
implementation of education legislation; Assisting project managers with legal
support in regard to contracts; Ensuring compliance with PAIA, PAJA and
POPI; Assisting with contract drafting and litigation; Drafting and editing legal
correspondence on all administrative enquiries; Conducting awareness on
legal matters and legal intervention and carry out any other relevant duties as
instructed.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Segowa Tel No: (012) 357 4291 or Ms N Monyela Tel No: (012) 357 3294
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise to
demonstrate their skills in a short task as part of the interview, and will be
subjected to a security clearance. The successful candidate have to sign an
annual performance agreement, annually disclose his/ her financial interests
and be subjected to a security clearance
POST 39/02 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BIDS AND CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION REF
NO: DBE/16/2025
Branch: Finance and Administration
Chief Directorate: Financial Management Services
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Three year Degree or Diploma in Public Administration, Supply Chain
Management, Procurement, Logistics (Minimum NQF Level 6) or a relevant
qualification; Minimum of three years relevant Supply Chain Management
experience in Bids Management and Acquisition Management; Knowledge of
procurement policies, regulations and relevant legislations governing the Bids
Administration and Acquisitions Management; Communication skills (Verbal
and Written), Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint and MS
Outlook) and BAS; Ability to work as a team; Good interpersonal relations and
problem-solving abilities; Attention to details and excellent numeric skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for managing the Acquisition
process effectively; Attending and advising during the Bid Specification
Committee (BSC) or Bid Evaluation Committee (BEC) meetings; Attending and
responding to the audit findings; Providing secretariat function/ support to the
bid committees (BSC/BEC); Compiling submissions after the BAC has made
recommendations to the Director General; Compiling the bid committees
reports; Compiling the monthly reports; Administering contracts’ compliance;
Assisting the Deputy Director by providing Secretariat function/ support to the
Bid Adjudication Committee (BAC) whenever the Deputy Director is not
available; Drafting letters to Bidders informing them about the outcome of the
bid after the finalisation of the bidding process; Facilitating the finalisation of
the contracts/ SLA in consultation with Legal Services; Facilitating and ensuring
that payments of Suppliers/ Service Providers are done within 30 days;
Notifying the Suppliers/ Service providers/ Contractors regularly on the status
or expiry of contracts; Updating the Commitment Register when payments are
processed; Coordinating and monitoring the Contracts; Ensuring proper record
keeping of all contracts and relevant documentations; Reviewing modifications,
extensions, and contract close-out documents for further action; Facilitating
and ensuring that payments of Suppliers/ Service Providers are done within 30
days; Performing any other duty as required by the managers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Segowa Tel No: (012) 357 4291 or Ms N Monyela Tel No: (012) 357 3294
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise to
demonstrate their skills in a short task as part of the interview and will be
subjected to a security clearance. The successful candidate have to sign an
annual performance agreement, annually disclose his/ her financial interests
and be subjected to a security clearance
5
ANNEXURE B
CIVILIAN SECRETARIAT FOR POLICE SERVICE
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be mailed timeously to Private Bag X922, Pretoria, 0001 or
hand delivered or couriered to 258 Lilian Ngoyi Street, Pretorius Street,
Fedsure Building 2nd floor, Pretoria at the Reception Desk. No late applications
will be accepted.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z.83 of
the Public Service Act, obtainable from any Public Service Department or any
Public Service and Administration website or Recruitment Office within the
Secretariat for Police Service. Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit a
fully completed Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (e.g. indicating positions
held, dates and key performance areas/responsibilities). Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day
of the interviews following communication from the Department. Failure to
submit the requested documents/information will result in your application not
being considered. Failure to comply with this requirement will result in the
candidate being disqualified. If you have not been contacted within a month
after the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application
was unsuccessful. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates
only and applications that do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements will not be considered. The applicants must not have previously
participated in an internship programme in the Public Service. The
qualifications must be from an accredited institution of higher learning.
Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of race,
gender and disability will receive preference.
INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME 2025 - 2027
The Civilian Secretariat for Police Service invites unemployed South African graduates to apply for the
2025 To 2027 Internship Programme. Graduates must be in possession of a completed National Diploma /
Bachelor’s degree/ Honour’s degree in the below-mentioned disciplines/ fields. The Programme will be
for non-renewable contract period of twenty-four (24) months.
OTHER POSTS
POST 39/03 : INTERN: LEGISLATION REF NO: CSP/14/2025
STIPEND : R7860.39 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification in LLB and LEAD certificate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NM Sefiti Tel No: (012) 4931 388
APPLICATIONS : Can also be emailed to Recruitment42@csp.gov.za
POST 39/04 : INTERN: OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY REF NO: CSP/15/2025
STIPEND : R7860.39 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma or Degree in Internal Auditing.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NM Sefiti Tel No: (012) 4931 388
APPLICATIONS : Can also be emailed to Recruitment42@csp.gov.za
POST 39/05 : INTERN: OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY REF NO: CSP/16/2025
STIPEND : R7860.39 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma or Degree in Public Administration/Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Maiko Tel No: (012) 4931 390
APPLICATIONS : Can also be emailed to Recruitment52@csp.gov.za
POST 39/06 : INTERN: OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY REF NO: CSP/17/2025
STIPEND : R7860.39 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
6
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma or Degree in Public Administration/Management (Only for
candidates with disability)
ENQUIRIES : Mr MD Mashifane Tel No: (012) 4931 435
APPLICATIONS : Can also be emailed to Oratile.Phomane@csp.gov.za
POST 39/07 : INTERN: CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER REF NO: CSP/18/2025
STIPEND : R7860.39 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma or Degree in Supply Chain Management/Logistics.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MD Mashifane Tel No: (012) 4931 435
APPLICATIONS : Can also be emailed to Recruitment72@csp.gov.za
POST 39/08 : INTERN: POLICY AND RESEARCH REF NO: CSP/19/2025 (X2 POSTS)
STIPEND : R7860.39 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Social Science (Criminology/Developmental Studies/Political
Science).
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Maiko Tel No: (012) 4931 390
APPLICATIONS : Can also be emailed to Recruitment52@csp.gov.za
POST 39/09 : INTERN: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO: CSP/20/2025
STIPEND : R7860.39 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Industrial Psychology.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MD Mashifane Tel No: (012) 4931 435
APPLICATIONS : Can also be emailed to Recruitment72@csp.gov.za
POST 39/10 : INTERN: CIVILIAN OVERSIGHT MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF
NO: CSP/21/2025
STIPEND : R7860.39 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/ Degree in Data Analytics/ Statistics
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Maiko Tel No: (012) 4931 390
APPLICATIONS : Can also be emailed to Oratile.Phomane@csp.gov.za
POST 39/11 : INTERN: CIVILIAN OVERSIGHT MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF
NO: CSP/22/2025
STIPEND : R7860.39 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/ Degree in Policing/Criminal Justice.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Maiko Tel No: (012) 4931 390
APPLICATIONS : Can also be emailed to Recruitment52@csp.gov.za
7
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE
The vision of the Department of Cooperative Governance is one of having a well co-ordinated system of
Government consisting of National, Provincial and Local spheres working together to achieve
sustainable development and service delivery. The Department intends to invest in human capital,
increase integrated technical capacity directed at service delivery and promote representivity in the
Department through the filling of this posts. The candidature of persons whose
appointment/transfer/promotion will promote representivity will therefore receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
NOTE : Applicants are advised that a new application for employment (Z83) has been
in effect since 1 January 2021. The new application for employment form can
be downloaded at http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applications
submitted using the old Z83 form will not be accepted. Applications must be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV, with specific starting and ending dates
in all relevant positions and clarity on the levels and ranks pertaining to
experience, as well as current remuneration package, as well as at least 2
contactable references. Only shortlisted candidates will be requested to submit
certified documents/ copies on or before the interviews. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Incomplete applications or applications
received after the closing date will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to a technical exercise (or exercises/follow-up
engagements/second round interviews/or any other method) that intends to
test relevant technical elements of the job. Following the interview and
technical exercise(s), the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend
a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA
directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The
competency assessment will test generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Core competencies:
Strategic capacity and leadership. People management and empowerment.
Advanced programme and project management. Change management.
Financial management. Process Competencies: Knowledge management.
Service Delivery Innovation. Advanced problem-solving and analysis. Client
orientation and customer focus. Advanced communication skills (written and
verbal). The successful candidate will be appointed to positive results of a pre-
employment screening process which includes criminal, credit, citizenship
checks and verification of educational qualification certificates. The successful
candidate will be appointed to probation for a period of 12 months and will be
required to sign a performance agreement. It is important to note that it is the
applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments in
support of the application are submitted by the due date. Correspondence will
be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within
three months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application has been unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right to make
an appointment. The below post is a senior management post. The
requirements for appointment at Senior Management Service level include the
successful completion of Senior Management Pre-entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government, which can be accessed using
the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/. Candidates must provide proof of successful completion of the
course prior to appointment. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 39/12 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CORPORATE PLANNING AND INTERNAL
MONITORING, REPORTING AND EVALUATION REF NO:CD: CORP_M&E
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (an all-inclusive remuneration package).
The package includes a basic salary (70% of package) and a flexible portion
that may be structured in terms of the applicable guidelines. Candidates
earning more than the first notch of the Salary Level will be treated according
to provisions in PSR 44.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Monitoring and Evaluation/ Business
Administration Management/ Public Administration or equivalent qualification
8
(NQF 7 as recognised by SAQA) A minimum of 5 years’ experience at senior
management level in strategic planning/ monitoring and evaluation. Proficiency
in MS Excel, MS Word. The Nyukela Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme is to be completed before appointment to the post. A valid driver’s
license. Intensive travelling. Additional Requirements (Advantage): MS
PowerPoint, MS Project. Core Competencies: Strategic capacity and
leadership. People Management and Empowerment. Programme and project
management. Financial management. Change management. Knowledge
management. Service delivery innovation. Problem solving and analysis. Client
orientation and customer focus. Communication (verbal and written). Technical
Competencies: Extensive knowledge in Policy Framework for the Government
wide Monitoring and Evaluation Systems, 2005. Framework for Managing
Programme Performance Information, 2007. Service Delivery Improvement
Plan Directive, 2019. Public Service Regulation, 2016. Public Finance
Management Act, No. 1 of 1999. Framework for Managing Programme
Performance Information 2007. Revised Framework for Strategic Plans and
Annual Performance Plans. Strategic plan research, development and
reviewing skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Provide strategic
direction and guidance on strategic planning and M&E processes. Oversee the
development and implementation of strategic documents (Strategic Plan,
Annual Performance Plan, Operational Plan and Policy Speech. Oversee the
development and monitoring of the service delivery model and service delivery
improvement plan. Oversee the monitoring of the departmental programme
performance reporting. Oversee the development and implementation of an
M&E system for effective performance information management. Oversee the
development of standardized sector indicators in collaboration with provincial
CoGTAs and entities and analyse their quarterly performance reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr X Xundu Tel No: (012) 334 0643
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to corp@ntirho.co.za
For application enquiries contact: Vanessa Cox Tel No: (010) 593 1998
POST 39/13 : DIRECTOR: LOCAL GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
(LIMPOPO) REF NO: D001L
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive remuneration package).
The package includes a basic salary (70% of package) and a flexible portion
that may be structured in terms of the applicable guidelines. Candidates
earning more than the first notch of the Salary Level will be treated according
to provisions in PSR 44.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration/ Local Government/
Development Management or equivalent qualification (NQF 7 as recognised
by SAQA) A minimum of 5 years’ experience at middle/ senior management
level. Proficiency in MS Excel, MS Word. The Nyukela Senior Management
Pre-Entry Programme is to be completed before appointment to the post. A
valid driver’s license. Intensive travelling. Additional Requirements
(Advantage): MS PowerPoint, MS Project. Core Competencies: Strategic
capacity and leadership. People Management and Empowerment. Programme
and project management. Financial management. Change management.
Knowledge management. Service delivery innovation. Problem solving and
analysis. Client orientation and customer focus. Communication (verbal and
written). Technical Competencies: Extensive knowledge; Advanced project
coordination skills. Advanced project/ programme management development.
Planning and organizing. Project/ Programme formulation. Project monitoring
and evaluation.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Manage the
development, review, and implementation of the district one plan. Manage the
development, implementation and monitoring of municipal infrastructure
projects. Manage the coordination of monitoring and reporting on municipal
governance, institutional capacity and compliance with legislation and
regulations. Oversee the coordination of municipal support (s154) and
implementation of interventions (s139) in municipalities in collaboration with
provinces.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Diale at 082 573 5552
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
response2@multilead.co.za
9
For application enquiries contact: Mr. S Ndlovu Tel No: (011) 763 1103/4
POST 39/14 : DIRECTOR: DISASTER RISK ASSESSMENT AND EARLY WARNING REF
NO: D002
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive remuneration package).
The package includes a basic salary (70% of package) and a flexible portion
that may be structured in terms of the applicable guidelines. Candidates
earning more than the first notch of the Salary Level will be treated according
to provisions in PSR 44.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Disaster Management/Environmental
Science or equivalent qualification (NQF 7 as recognised by SAQA), A
minimum of 5 years’ experience in Disaster Risk Management at middle/senior
management level. Proficiency in MS Word. The Nyukela Senior Management
Pre-Entry Programme is to be completed before appointment to the post. A
valid driver’s license. Extensive official travel both at national and international
level. Additional Requirements (Advantage): MS PowerPoint, MS Project.
Post-Graduate (NQF level 8) qualification in Geographic Information Systems/
Geoinformatics, computer science with GIS modules or environmental science
with specialisation in GIS. Registered in the professional body for GIS/
Certificate in GIS. Core Competencies: Strategic capacity and leadership.
People Management and Empowerment. Programme and project
management. Financial management. Change management. Knowledge
management. Service delivery innovation. Problem solving and analysis. Client
orientation and customer focus. Communication (verbal and written). Technical
Competencies: In-depth knowledge of; Policy and legislation relevant to the
Disaster Management function in South Africa. The concept of Disaster
Management. Geographical Information Systems. Knowledge of space and
satellite technologies. Internet technologies and spatial application
development processes. Government IT/IS standards/ procedures and
practices and SITA policies. Project methodology. Knowledge of Geomatics
Act.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Generate and
maintain a national indicative disaster risk profile. Develop and roll-out disaster
management early warning systems and dissemination of early warnings to
vulnerable communities. Establish and maintain geographic information
management systems for disaster risk management and maintain appropriate
spatial information. Gather information on all aspects of disaster management
and disseminate to stakeholders and vulnerable communities. Monitor and
evaluate compliance related to disaster management spatial information.
ENQUIRIES : Dr B Sithole at 082 490 9825
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
response3@multilead.co.za
For application enquiries contact Mr. S Ndlovu Tel No: (011) 763 1103/4
OTHER POSTS
POST 39/15 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: WINDOWS SERVER/ AZURE/ VMWARE
ENGINEER REF NO: AD:VMWARE_ENG
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Information Technology/
Systems or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6/7 as recognised by SAQA.
3-5 years’ experience in Information Technology field. Proficiency in MS Excel
and MS Word. Other: A valid driver’s license. Additional Requirements
(Advantage): MS Project and MS PowerPoint. Generic Competencies:
Planning and organising. Problem solving and decision making. People
management and empowerment. Team leadership. Project management.
Coordination. Client orientation and customer focus. Diversity management.
Communication (verbal and written). Technical Competencies: Windows
Server/ Azure/ VMWare operations management skills. Teamwork and
negotiation skills. Troubleshooting and problem-solving skills. Analytical skills.
Organisational skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Monitor windows,
Azure/ VMWare services. Implement and support LAN (Local Area Network)
10
and WAN (Wide Area Network) services in the Department. Administer active
directory services such as user lifecycle. Resolve incidents in accordance with
the signed services level agreement. Provide support to the Cloud and In-
house infrastructure services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Ngobese Tel No: (012) 065 3018
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
vmeng@ntirho.co.za
For application enquiries contact Vanessa Cox Tel No: (010) 593 199
POST 39/16 ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL HUMAN RESOURCE SYSTEMS REF
NO: ASD MHRS-01
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Human Resource
Management/ Public Administration or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6/7
as recognised by SAQA. 3-5 years’ experience in a related field. Proficiency in
MS Excel and MS Word. Driver’s License and travelling. Generic
Competencies: Planning and organising. Problem solving and decision
making. Coordination. Project Management. People management and
empowerment. Client orientation and customer focus. Team leadership.
Diversity management Communication (verbal and written). Technical
Competencies: Policy analysis and formulation. Knowledge of local
government legislative and policy environment. Local Public Administration
and Human Resources. Interpretation and application of legislation. Labour
law.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Assist in the
implementation of Chapter 7 of the Municipal System Act, 2000 and other
relevant legislation applicable to local government. Conduct policy analysis,
identify policy gaps and recommend appropriate policy proposals on local
public administration and human resources. Provide support on the
development and review local government human resource systems and
procedures. Coordinate consultation of policy and legislation with national
sector departments, organized local government, provinces, trade unions and
professional bodies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Andries at 066 484 5063
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
dcog5@tttrecruitment.co.za
For application enquiries contact: To The T Recruitment, at 067 391 7387
POST 39/17 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FACILITIES AND OHS MANAGEMENT REF NO:
ASD-FOHSM-02
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Public Administration
or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6/7 as recognised by SAQA. 3-5 years’
experience in a related field. Proficiency in MS Excel MS Word and MS
PowerPoint. Driver’s License and travelling. Generic Competencies: Planning
and organising. Problem solving and decision making. Coordination. Project
Management. People management and empowerment. Client orientation and
customer focus. Team leadership. Diversity management Communication
(verbal and written). Technical Competencies: In depth knowledge of; The
National Regulations and Building Standard Act, 1997. Occupational Health
and Safety Act, 1993- building and maintenance services. Contract and
property management. Government systems and structures. Public Finance
Management Act, 1999- facilities management services.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Coordinate the
implementation of facilities contracts and building maintenance services. Liaise
with the Department of Public Works and Infrastructure and Department of
National Treasury on office accommodation matters. Coordinate
implementation of Facilities and OHS policies and procedures. Coordinate
building inspection through health and safety teams. Conduct risk assessment,
perform events safety, and promote health and safety awareness.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Ralukake Tel No: (012) 336 5612
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
dcog6@tttrecruitment.co.za
11
For application enquiries contact: To The T Recruitment, at 067 391 7387
POST 39/18 : SENIOR PLANNING OFFICER: SPATIAL AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
PLANNING REF NO: SPO001
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Town and Regional
Planning/ Social Science/ Geomatics or equivalent qualification at NQF level
6/7 as recognised by SAQA. 2-3 years’ experience. Proficiency in MS Excel
MS Word and MS PowerPoint. Driver’s License and travelling. Generic
Competencies: Quality of work. Initiative. Interpersonal relations. Planning and
execution. Analytical skills. Reliability. Communication. Teamwork. Ability to
manage conflict. Customer focus and responsiveness. Technical
Competencies: In depth knowledge and understanding of; Basic knowledge of
Town Planning and Geographic Information System. Project management.
Research and development. Computer-aided applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Research and development.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Provide support
towards the analysis of Municipal Spatial Planning tools (Municipal Spatial
Development Framework’s) to guide Integrated Development Planning.
Provide general administrative support to the Geographic Information Systems
function. Assist in the development and maintenance of the Integrated
Development Planning Information Management System (IDPIMS). Provide
administrative support in the implementation of the Smart Cities framework and
Small-Town Regeneration Strategy. Provide secretariat functions to the
existing forum and project steering committees for various projects.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Ngwenya at 079 8917 995
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
response4@multilead.co.za
For application enquiries contact Mr. S Ndlovu Tel No: (011) 763 1103/04
POST 39/19 : SENIOR RECORDS MANAGEMENT PRACTITIONER REF NO: SP-RM-03
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Archives and Records
Management/ Information Science or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6/7
as recognised by SAQA. 2-3 years’ experience. Proficiency in MS Excel MS
Word and MS PowerPoint. Generic Competencies: Quality of work. Initiative.
Interpersonal relations. Planning and execution. Reliability. Communication.
Teamwork. Customer focus and responsiveness. Technical Competencies: In
depth knowledge of Records Management. Policy issues. National Archives
Act. Minimum Information Security Standard (MISS). Electronic Records
Management Systems.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Render registry
functions in the Department. Conduct proper records management practices.
Implement a systematic disposal programme. Maintain electronic document
records management system in the Department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Chiloane Tel No: (012) 334 0887
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
dcog7@tttrecruitment.co.za
POST 39/20 : SCANNING OPERATOR REF NO: DCOG-SCO
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent qualification. No experience required.
Proficiency in MS Excel and MS Word. Generic Competencies: Quality of work.
Initiative. Interpersonal Relations. Planning and Execution. Reliability.
Communication (verbal and written. Teamwork. Technical Competencies: In
depth knowledge of Registry procedure manual. Operating high volume copy
and scanning equipment. Intermediate level proficiency with MS Word, Excel,
Google Suite. Courier services.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Disassemble and
prepare documents for scanning in line with standard operating procedures.
Scan, index and export documents to the electronic record management
12
system. Establish and maintain quality controls and assurance to ensure
accurate digitized documents. Re-assemble and organise documents to their
original state after scanning for physical filing. Assist in rendering registry
services in the Department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Chiloane Tel No: (012) 334 0887/ 060 994 5930
APPLICATIONS : Application form: DCoG ICT by email on
ictbusinessapplications@cogta.gov.za
NOTE : Submit applications on the electronic form by clicking the link DCoG
Recruitment Application Form, or visit our website on www.cogta.gov.za and
click on the Jobs Tab.
13
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 00:00 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the correct
job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your email.
Use the correct email address associated with the post. JPEG
(picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Failure to do so, your
application will be disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference
number must be submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate’s
suitability based on the posts’s technical and generic requirements. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your
information will be used soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. If you
have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below
advertised post(s). The successful candidate will be required to enter into an
employment contract and a performance agreement. The Department is an
equal opportunity affirmative action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of
the Department shall inform the employment decision. It is the Department’s
intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of
this post(s)
OTHER POSTS
POST 39/21 : PSYCHOMETRIST/ REGISTERED COUNSELLOR REF NO: HR4/4/08/141
SALARY : Grade 1: R712 599 - R789 489 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R811 662 - R899 085 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R916 437 - R1 014 705 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Kimberley
14
REQUIREMENTS : A 4-year B-Psych degree/ Honours degree in Psychology/Honours degree in
Industrial Psychology, Registration with HPCSA as Psychometrics/Registered
Counsellor (Independent Practice). Minimum experience required for
appointment of this post: Grade 1: 0 years’ experience, Grade 2: 8 years’
experience, Grade 3: 16 years’ experience. Knowledge: International Labour
Organisation Conventions, Financial Management, Human Resource
Management, Public Service Act, Skills Development Act, Unemployment
Insurance Act, Health Professions Act, Employment Equity Act, COIDA, POPI
Act. Skills: Planning and organizing, Communication, Computer, Analytical,
Presentation, Interpersonal, Report Writing, Leadership, Networking.
DUTIES : Provide technical support to labour centres for the delivery of Employment
Counselling services. Facilitate the referral of work- seekers to relevant
Employment Services and Active Labour Market Interventions. Co-ordinate the
dissemination of Career and Labour Market information to Labour centres.
Establish and maintain relationships between Employment Counsellors and
relevant organisations. Co-ordinate the administration of Psychometric
Assessment, Supervise Administrative Personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Kleinsmith Tel No: (053) 8381707
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X5012, Kimberley, 8301 OR
hand deliver at Laboria House, c/o Pniel & Compound Street, Kimberley.
Applications: Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Kimberley. Email:
Jobs-NCKIM@labour.gov.za
POST 39/22 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HR & ER REF NO: HR 4/4/4/10/05
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Parktown
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year National Diploma (NQF6)/ undergraduate bachelor’s degree
(NQF7) in Human Resources/ Labour Relations/ Labour Law. Two years’
Supervisory experience. Two years’ functional experience in Human
Resources Operations/Employment Relations. Knowledge: Public Service
transformation and Management issues, White Paper on transformation of
Public Service, Ability to convert policy into action, Human Resources systems
and procedures, Public Service Act and Resolution, Recruitment and
Selection, Departmental Policies and Procedures, Batho Pele Principles,
Minimum Information Security Standards. Skills: Report writing, Presentation,
Interpersonal, Communication (both verbal and written), Computer Literacy,
Analytical, Problem solving, Conflict management.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate and monitor the implementation of Human Resources
Management Policies in the Province, Monitor and provide advice on the
implementation of Employment Relations Policies and transcripts, Coordinate
and manage the implementation of programmes of Employment Equity.
Monitor the administration of service benefits, Supervision of resources in the
Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MH Rampou Tel No: (011) 853 0300
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 4560, Johannesburg, 2001 or
hand deliver at 47 Empire Road, Parktown. For online applications email: Jobs-
GP17@labour.gov.za
POST 39/23 : TEAM LEADER REF NO: HR 4/4/4/10/06
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Bronkhorstspruit
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year’s National Diploma (NQF6)/Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF7) in Labour Relations/Labour Law/LLB/BCOM Law. Two (2) year’s
functional experience in Inspection and Enforcement Services. A valid driver’s
licence. Knowledge: Department policies and procedures, Employment
Services Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, COIDA, SABS Codes, Unemployment
Insurance Act, UI Contribution Act, Employment Equity Act, Immigration Act.
Skills: Facilitation, Planning, Organizing, Computer literacy, Interpersonal,
Conflict handling, Negotiation, Problem solving, Interviewing, Presentation,
Innovative, Analytical, Monitoring, Performance Management,
Communication.
DUTIES : Plan and independently conduct substantive inspections with the aim of
ensuring compliance with some of labour legislation, namely, Basic Conditions
of Employment Act (BCEA), Labour Relations Act (LRA). Plan and execute
15
investigations independently on reported cases pertaining to contravention of
labour legislation and enforce as and when necessary, including making
preparations for and appearing in Court as a State witness. Plan, allocate and
conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with
labour legislation including compilation and consolidation of reports emanating
from such inspections. Conduct Advocacy campaigns on Labour legislations
regularly. Manage the finalization of files of cases received and investigations
conducted by the Inspectors. Contribute at a management level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mojapelo Tel No: (013) 932 0198
APPLICATIONS : 47 Empire Road, Park Town, Johannesburg, 2001 Hand deliver at 47 Empire
Road, Park Town or For online applications email: Jobs-GP18@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Provincial Office: Gauteng
POST 39/24 : EMPLOYMENT SERVICE PRACTITIONER (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Temba Labour Centre Ref No: HR 4/4/4/10/07 (X1 Post)
Johannesburg Labour Centre Ref No: HR 4/4/4/10/08 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year relevant qualification at NQF6 in Social Science (Psychology,
Industrial Psychology) Public Administration/Business Management/Public
Management, Valid driver’s licence. Two (2) Years functional experience in a
client-oriented environment. Knowledge: Employment Service Act,
Unemployment Insurance Act, Public Service Ac, Immigration Act, Skills
Development Act, Social Plan Guidelines, Human Resources Management,
Public Financial Management Act, ILO conversions related PES. Skills:
Planning and Organizing, Communication skills, Computer, Analytical,
Presentation, Interpersonal, Report writing, Networking, Negotiation,
Marketing.
DUTIES : Marketing PES Services to stakeholders to acquire opportunities and conduct
recruitment, selection, referral and placement of registered work seekers.
Process requests for International Cross Board Labour Migration and advise
on the availability of skills. Process applications for registration of Public
Employment Agency (PEA) and Temporary Employment Schemes (TES).
Supervise provision of registration and referral of work seekers for the
Department, Monitor the implementation of employment schemes, Labour
Activation programmes (LAP) projects and Temporary Relief-Schemes.
Supervise the administration of employer services at the labour centre.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Malungana Tel No: (012) 727 1364 (Temba)
Ms F Tshabalala Tel No: (011) 843 4000 (Johannesburg)
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 4560, Johannesburg, 2001 or
hand deliver at 47 Empire Road, Parktown. For online applications email: Jobs-
GP19@labour.gov.za (Temba), Jobs-GP21@labour.gov.za (Johannesburg)
POST 39/25 : MSS ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: HR 4/4/4/10/09
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Carletonville Labour Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/Grade 12/Senior Certificate. No experience required. Knowledge:
Batho Pele Principles. Departmental Policies and Procedures. Treasury
Regulations. Skills: Verbal and written communication. Interpersonal Relations.
Problem Solving. Computer Literacy. Analytical. Planning and Organising.
DUTIES : To render Supply Chain Management Function in a Labour Centre. Provide a
Finance and Office Management service to the Labour Centre. Render a
Human Resource Management service. Responsible for Training and
Performance activities in a Labour Centre. Responsible for the records
management in a Labour Centre.
ENQUIRIES : Mr BP Mosoeu Tel No: (018) 788 3281
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 4560, Johannesburg, 2001 or
hand deliver at 47 Empire Road, Parktown. For online applications email: Jobs-
GP20@labour.gov.za
16
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF, FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer.
APPLICATIONS : Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of Forestry, Fisheries
and the Environment, Private Bag X447, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-delivered to:
Environment House, Erf 1563 Arcadia Extension 6, Cnr Soutpansberg and
Steve Biko Road, Arcadia, Pretoria. or can be emailed to the respective email
address quoting the reference number on the subject email.
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025, 16:00
FOR ATTENTION : Human Resource Management
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department, accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified copies of qualifications, Senior Certificate, identity document and
driver’s license on or before the day of the interview. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The National Department of Forestry,
Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. Preference may be given to appointable applicants from the
underrepresented designated groups in terms of the Department’s equity plan.
Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence will be
limited to successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be subjected
to screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for employment,
including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status; Credit
worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entryprogramme/.Furthermore, candidates shortlisted for the SMS post will be
subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job. Following the interview and the technical exercise, the
Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments. The person appointed to
this position will be subjected to a security clearance, the signing of
performance agreement and employment contract. The Department reserves
the right not to make an appointment. By submitting the employment
application form, you agree and consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your
personal information which you provide to the DFFE to being processed by the
department and its employees, agents, Cabinet committees, and
subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in accordance with the POPIA of
2013. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after the closing
date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the post for the Director: State Forest
Management (KZN) with Ref No: FOM07/2025 advertised in the Public Service
Vacancy Circular 37 dated 10 October 2025 with the closing date of 03
November 2025 is amended. The amendment is as follows: Applications can
be emailed to FOM07-2025@dffe.gov.za, or hand-deliver to 185 Langalibalele
Street, Old Mutual Building, Pietermaritzburg,3200. Closing date extended to
10 November 2025.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the salary for the post for the Deputy Director:
Performance Management (Cape Town) with Ref No: CMS20/2025 advertised
in the Public Service Vacancy Circular 38 dated 17 October 2025 with the
closing date of 10 November 2025 is amended. The salary for the post is R896
436 per annum (all-inclusive salary package).
17
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the salary for the post for the Deputy Director:
EPWP Youth Projects Implementation (Cape Town) with Ref No: EP26/2025
advertised in the Public Service Vacancy Circular 38 dated 17 October 2025
with the closing date of 10 November 2025 is amended. The salary for the post
is R896 436 per annum (all-inclusive salary package).
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 39/26 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: BIODIVERSITY MONITORING AND SPECIALIST
SERVICES REF NO: BC25/2025
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Environmental Science or Environmental
Management or relevant qualification on (NQF7) within the related field
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience at senior
management level within the related field. Successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government (NSG). Knowledge on Natural resource management planning
and implementation; Natural resource management or Natural resource-based
rural development; Knowledge on Programme-based natural resource
operational management and/or planning; Research and Development; Value-
added industry experience and expertise. People Management; Financial
Management; Public Finance Management Act. Good communication skills;
Good formal presentation skills and public speaking skills. Ability to work long
hours voluntarily. Ability to gather and analyse information. Ability to develop
and apply policies. Good interpersonal relations and diplomatic skills; ability to
work under pressure.
DUTIES : Coordinate and lead the development of biodiversity and conservation policies,
manage the implementation of measures to mitigate threats to biodiversity,
including through leading negotiations and the implementation of the United
Nations Convention on Biological Diversity (UNCBD), the biodiversity sector
response to climate change, the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety and
guidance on risk management of Alien and Invasive species as well as the
International Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) and
other multilateral agreements related to climate change and pollution
Coordinate policy development on the effect of a range of global change
phenomena e.g. Climate change on biodiversity. Enhance biodiversity
conservation related research and indigenous knowledge to promote science
policy interface and information management. Provide biodiversity specialist
scientific, intergovernmental and legislative support services as well as
monitor, evaluate, analyse, negotiate and advise on national and international
biodiversity conservation status and trends. Facilitate the development of
relevant national response tools to meet international obligations. Develop
national implementation plans for the decisions taken at the COP’s. Facilitate
sector coordination for biodiversity planning, monitoring and evaluation and the
development of a clearing house mechanism for biodiversity information.
Coordinate and facilitate biodiversity related donor-funded programme.
Facilitate and coordinate inter and intra governmental coordination and
mainstreaming of biodiversity conservation across government and
engagement with non-state actors.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Diphaha Tel No: (012) 399 9602
APPLICATIONS : BC25-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 39/27 : DIRECTOR: INTEGRATED HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
CMS22/2025
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate Degree (NQF7) in Human Resource Management or relevant
qualification recognized by SAQA. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience In
Human Resource Management at a middle/senior managerial level.
Knowledge of Human Resource Development legislation and regulatory
framework. Understanding of Public Finance Management Act and Treasury
Regulations. Knowledge and experience in Human Resource Management,
Learning Development and Performance Management. Ability to gather and
analyse information. Knowledge of HR practice & procedures. Project
18
management and Financial Management. Experience and knowledge of policy
development and implementation. People Management and Change
Management. Sound research, analytical and presentation skills. Good
communication skills (both verbal and report writing). Good interpersonal
relations skills. Coordination and stakeholder liaison. Sense of responsibility
and loyalty. Ability to work long hours.
DUTIES : Ensure the implementation of performance management for Coastal regions.
Manage and conduct performance appraisals. Ensure the Implementation of
PMDS Framework. Conduct performance training to managers and
employees. Conduct and manage ad hocs and appeals. Ensure the provision
of support in reducing the vacancy and turnover rate. Manage recruitment,
selection and appointment of staff. Manage pre-employment verifications of
recommended candidates. Manage competency assessments for
recommended SMS members. Facilitate the implementation of the retention
policy. Ensure compliance with regulatory framework in respect of
management of service benefits and condition. Provide advice on service
benefits and conditions. Review service benefits and conditions related
policies. Ensure the implementation of HRD strategy for Coastal regions.
Facilitate and manage the implementation of internship, bursary, orientation,
and induction programmes. Oversee leadership (SMS) training/development
interventions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Luphondo Tel No: (012) 399 8623
APPLICATIONS : CMS22-2025@dffe.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 39/28 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EP INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAMME REF NO:
EP17/2025
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Built Environment (Architecture, Cil/Structural
Engineering, Quantity Surveying, Construction Management) or relevant
qualification recognized by SAQA. A Registration with the relevant professional
bodies/or councils will be added advantage A minimum of five (5) years’
experience in project management or relevant of which three (3) years should
be at entry/junior management level (Assistant Director level or equivalent).
Extensive understanding and knowledge of natural sciences, construction
management, project management, environmental management,
environmental science, environmental law, monitoring and evaluation.
Applicant must have ability for policy development and strategic planning and
coordination. Have knowledge and understanding of risk management, audit
procedures and legislation procedures. Applicant must possess the following
skills: report writing, communication, facilitation, organising and good
interpersonal skill. Ability to gather and analyse information, ability to develop
and apply policies, conflict management and resolution. Must have ability to
individually and in a team.
DUTIES : Manage the initiation and inception process of the project by defining the
project scope of works and the deliverables, identifying the project
stakeholders and Identifying channels to be followed for communication in the
appointed. Manage the process of tender and appointment of the project
professional consultants working together with Supply Chain Management.
Manage the process of signing-off the contracts or MoA by the department and
the appointed professional consultants. Manage the process of introducing the
appointed consultants to the owing entity and the project stakeholders. Manage
the of drafting elementary cost estimate based on the concept and preliminary
designs. Manage the process of drafting Risk Management Plan. Manage the
process of signing-off the facilitation of project based on stage 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5.
Manage the detailed development process. Manage the process of advertising
tender following the built environment norms and standards, working together
with SCM. Manage the process of bid specification, bid evaluation, and bid
adjudication, and the appointment of the contractor. Manage the process of
developing the Project Advisory Committee (PAC) and Technical Review
Committees (TRC). Ensure that the process and technical meeting are held
monthly. Ensure that project is constructed as per the approved designs,
budget, specifications and any applicable special conditions. Manage the
process of asst transfer from the Department to the owing entity by facilitating
19
the signing of the section 42 certificate in terms of PFMA. Mange the process
of finalisation of the project final account.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Nenungwi Tel No: (012) 399 9757
APPLICATIONS : EP17-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 39/29 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: IT SECURTY REF NO: CMS23/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Information Technology or relevant qualification
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience in Information
Technology of which three (3) should be at entry/ junior managerial level
(Assistant Director level or equivalent). Experience in managing and
maintaining IT Security. IT Security certification (e.g., CompTIA Security+,
Certified Network Defender, etc) from vendor-neutral ICT security certification
bodies such as the EC-council, CompTIA, ISACA will be an added advantage.
Knowledge of technical and administrative controls in security and threats.
E.g., Application Security controls, Network Security Controls, Awareness,
Information Security, Auditing (Logs), Cybersecurity, Phishing, SQL injection,
malware, etc. Experience in project management, financial management and
personnel management. Information Technology Security skills. Sound
organizing and planning skills. Good communication skills. Writing skills
Interpersonal skills. Ability to gather and analyse information. Ability to develop
and apply policies. Ability to work individually and in team.
DUTIES : Manage and maintain ICT Security Infrastructure. Ensure that the Endpoint
Protection Platform (anti-virus software) is centrally managed and configured
properly (vendor recommendation and best practices) to secure all endpoints.
Maintenance of Web Security Gateways for all offices. Conduct IT Risk
Management. Develop and maintain an IT Risk Register in conjunction with
Risk Management unit. Compile Risk Mitigation Plan for all relevant offices and
report implementation progress to stakeholders. Ensure Audit Compliance. Co-
ordinate internal and external audit activities. Conduct Review of audit report.
Research trends in IT Security. Administration of IT Security Functional
Environment. Review of the IT Security Incident Response Plan. Review,
develop and direct the implement IT Security policies, IT security standards,
and IT Security procedures. Manage procurement of IT Security related
solutions and services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Pulumo Tel No: (012) 399 9725
APPLICATIONS : CMS23-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 39/30 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: CMS24/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Labour Relations or relevant qualification
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience in Labour
Relations environment of which three (3) should be at entry/ junior managerial
level (Assistant Director level or equivalent). Knowledge of Labour Relations
Act. Project management. Understanding of HR policies, processes and
procedures. Ability to gather and analyse information. Knowledge of Labour
Relations processes. Ability to collect and interpret information and reports.
Ability to develop, interpret, and apply policies. Good interpersonal relations;
Stakeholder engagement; Research skills; Financial Management; Change
Management; Problem Solving and Analysis and People Management and
Empowerment. Ability to work individually and in team. Good interpersonal
relations skills. Ability to work with difficult persons and to resolve conflict.
DUTIES : Manage and monitor the management of the disciplinary, grievance or
incapacity policies or guidelines. Provide management support in the analysis
and investigation of misconduct cases. Ensure compliance in line with Labour
Relations Act and policies. Provide administrative support. Monitor and provide
capacity and support for the management and handling of discipline,
grievances and disputes. Provide advice to supervisors and managers on
labour relations. Manage and co-ordinate the handling of disputes. Ensure
representation of department in all disputes. Represent the Department at
conciliation and arbitration. Monitor the receipt of referral forms and notices of
conciliation and arbitration if they are properly served to the Department.
Ensure employer representative on disputes. Manage training and
20
development in labour relations. Manage the coordination of workshops on
employee relations processes and ensure stakeholders are engaged on
course content. Ensure facilitation of monthly code of conduct inductions.
Advise Managers and supervisors on management of discipline in the
workplace especially progressive discipline. Manage and facilitate training and
development of investigators, initiators and presiding officers. Create
awareness on employee relations issues through information sharing sessions
and Workshops. Manage and co-ordinate support to the Departmental
Bargaining Chamber. Represent the Department at the Departmental
Bargaining Chamber (DBC). Ensure that labour relation cases are updated on
the database. Oversee compilation and submission of reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L May Tel No: (012) 399 9245
APPLICATIONS : CMS24-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 39/31 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A: UNITED NATIONS
FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE REF NO:
CCAQ11/2025
SALARY : R612 480 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A four-year Degree (NQF8) or equivalent qualification in Natural or
Environmental Sciences plus six years post qualification experience in the
relevant field. Knowledge of PFMA, Measurement, Reporting and Verification
(MRV) Framework under the United Nations Framework Convention on
Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Enhanced Transparency Framework
(ETF) under the Paris Agreement. Understanding of Climate Change Policies
and Programmes as well as international reporting obligations and
requirements. Skills: Computer, financial management, budget management,
project management and closure, international reporting on climate change.
Personal attributes: Management of finances and personnel. Planning and
execution. Teamwork; Teachable; Technical skills; Delegation and
empowerment.
DUTIES : Facilitate South Africa’s International obligations and report under the
UNFCCC and its Paris Agreement. Facilitate the South African Capacity
Building Initiative for Transparency Projects Implementation and Closure.
Develop South Africa’s position on MRV and the Enhanced Transparency
Framework issues for the sessions of the Subsidiary Bodies and the
Conference of the Parties. Participate in climate change negotiations and
advance the position mandate on MRV and Transparency items. Participate in
national, regional and international meetings, workshops and other forums on
the Enhanced Transparency Framework. Assist in the development of project
proposals and budgets for South Africa’s Climate Change Reports under the
MRV Framework and the ETF, including for the CBIT projects. Perform project
management and financial management duties for all sub-directorate donor-
funded projects.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SB Motshwanedi Tel No: (012) 399 9155
APPLICATIONS : CCAQ11-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 39/32 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: IT PLANNING AND COORDINATION REF NO:
CMS26/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Information Technology or relevant qualification
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in Information
Technology or relevant field. Experience in providing IT governance planning,
reporting and coordination support. Knowledge of IT practices and procedures.
Project management. Ability to gather and analyse information. Knowledge of
IT planning and organizational information. Administrative procedures. Public
Finance Management Act and Treasury Regulations. Sound research,
analytical, organizing and planning skills. Good coordination and stakeholder
liaison. Strategic planning skills. Good communication skills (verbal and
written). Sense of responsibility and loyalty. Ability to work long hours.
DUTIES : Coordination of GITO compliance reporting. Coordinate and verify GITO
quarterly and Annual report. Analyse and monitor strategic information. Render
advisory services on the GITO reporting requirements. Coordinate GITO
administration. Coordinate various GITO reporting queries and facilitate
21
appropriate response. Maintain GITO Information and statistics. Ensure data
integrity of GITO information. Collect data and provide statistics on GITO
matters. Ensure quality and consistency of GITO statistical reporting.
Coordinate and manage all statutory and routine statistical GITO reporting.
Develop and implement the GITO Plan. Develop and consolidate the GITO
annual plan. Implement and ensure GITO planning documents and reports are
updated.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Chaka Tel No: (012) 399 9955
APPLICATIONS : CMS26-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 39/33 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL HYGIENE REF NO:
CMS27/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Occupational Hygiene/Environmental
Health/Chemistry/ Chemical Engineering or relevant qualification recognized
by SAQA. Registration with the Southern African Institute for Occupational
Hygiene (SAIOH) at Occupational Hygiene Technologist (ROHT) level.
Occupational Hygiene Legal Knowledge Certificate. A minimum of three (3)
years’ experience in Occupational Hygiene or relevant field. Experience in
identifying, assessing and controlling occupational health hazards,
occupational hygiene monitoring and using scientific equipment/instruments to
ensure compliance in the Department. Knowledge and understanding of the
Occupational Health and Safety Act and regulations. Understanding of national
building regulations and standards. Occupational hygiene codes of practice,
potential health hazards, use and calibration of occupational hygiene
equipment (toxicology, confined space), knowledge and understanding of
SANAS ISO/IEC 17020 and in-depth knowledge in the prevention of
occupational disease. Understanding of Occupational Hygiene survey reports’
formats, technical writing, and oral presentation techniques. Knowledge of
project management. Ability to develop/implement policies and guidelines.
Strategic planning management. Coordination and stakeholder liaison skills.
Administrative procedures. Sound research, analytical, organizing and
planning skills. Ability to gather and analyse information. Good communication
skills (verbal and written) and presentation skills. Ability to work long hours
voluntarily and travel intensively.
DUTIES : Identify, assess, and control occupational health hazards, using scientific
knowledge/equipment/instruments to ensure compliance in the Department.
Provide advisory and technical support to the Occupational Hygiene Program.
Effectively communicate and participate in problem solving and provide
technical recommendations and assistance. Serve as the subject-matter
expert for the implementation of departmental occupational health and hygiene
programs. Conduct Occupational Hygiene surveys, workplace evaluations,
and Incident investigations. Develop, review, audit, coordinate and/or provide
Occupational Health training and conduct design/specification/process.
Respond to inquiries and enforcement actions from government regulatory
agencies; develop response plans to correct non-conformances and/or
violations. Support the establishment and implementation of the medical
surveillance programme. Ensure the department complies with applicable
regulatory requirements and is always “audit ready”. Monitor and evaluate,
audit, review Occupational Hygiene programs for effectiveness, and
achievement of objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Mtshali Tel No: (012) 399 9099
APPLICATIONS : CMS27-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 39/34 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PARLIAMENTARY SUPPORT REF NO:
ODG05/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Public Administration/Management or a relevant
qualification recognised by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in
Parliament Support or a related field. Sound knowledge and understanding of
Parliamentary and Cabinet processes, including Parliamentary Rules and
Guidelines, the Constitution of South Africa, and legislative procedures.
Proficiency in administrative, financial and project management, and public
22
relations, Electronic Document Management Systems (EDMS), language
editing formats and quality control mechanisms. Strong research, analytical,
organisational and strategic planning skills. Excellent verbal and written
communication, decision-making and report writing skills. Ability to work
independently and within a team, perform/work under extreme pressure and
meet tight deadlines, work extended hours when necessary, interpret and apply
policies, and interpret information and reports. High level of responsibility,
integrity and loyalty, and attention to detail. A valid driver’s license will be an
added advantage.
DUTIES : Provide administrative coordination for parliamentary-related activities.
Coordinate logistics and documentation for Parliamentary engagements.
Maintain registers and records of meetings and proceedings. Liaise with
internal and external stakeholders to ensure smooth engagement with
Parliamentary engagements. Support collaboration and maintain effective
relationship with Parliamentary structures. Effective and efficient coordination
of Parliamentary Questions. Disseminate Parliamentary Questions (Written
and Oral questions) to relevant branches using correct/appropriate
departmental templates. Monitor and follow up branch responses to ensure
timely submission. Receive responses from branches and perform quality
control to ensure alignment of responses to questions. Submit finalised
responses, as recommended by the DG, to the Ministry within stipulated
timeframes. Maintain a database of PQs and update the tracking tool and
EDMS folder weekly. Coordinate and track Parliamentary resolutions and
recommendations. Monitor Parliamentary Papers (Announcements, Tablings
and Committees [ATCs]) and distribute relevant items to departmental
managers. Create templates and consolidate departmental responses to
Committee Reports. Coordinate submission of department’s responses to DG
and Minister for approval. Ensure that departmental responses to resolutions
and recommendations are submitted within the set timeframe. Track
departmental and public entities’ tabling/submissions to Parliament and referral
to Committees, including Bills, International Agreements, Strategic and Annual
Performance Plans (usually scheduled for the end of March each year), Annual
Reports (usually scheduled for the end of August each year). Track
coordination of, and departmental NEMA Report. Receive tabling schedules
from the Tabling office and communicate deadlines to relevant officials.
Coordinate the tabling process between the Department and Minister’s office.
Monitor the status of tabled instruments through the National Assembly and
National Council of Province’s records.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Sekgobela Tel No: (012) 399 9882
APPLICATIONS : ODG05-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 39/35 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ASSETS MANAGEMENT REF NO: CFO22/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Supply Chain Management or relevant
qualification recognized by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in
a Supply Chain Management field. Knowledge of Asset management,
procurement, and business practices. Ability to establish and manage asset
management systems and controls. Knowledge of strategic planning and
budgeting. Ability to develop, interpret and apply policies, strategies, and
legislation. Knowledge of HR management practices, legal issues, negotiations
and dealing with conflict. Assist in career planning and effective deployment of
personnel. Ability to control and manage assets of the department. Sufficient
knowledge of specific computer software packages and efficient use of
associated hardware. Perform in-house training for subordinates. Management
and administrative fields. Audit and Financial field. PFMA; Departmental
procedures and prescripts. policies and procedures; Asset management;
Public Service legislative frameworks. Skills & Competencies: Skills in policy
development and Adequate skills in computer use.
DUTIES : Maintain asset register. Quarterly spot checks and annual asset verification.
Disposal of redundant/obsolete furniture and equipment. Provide asset reports
for the Annual Financial Statements. Perform monthly BAS/LOGIS
reconciliation and effect the necessary corrections of the LOGIS asset register.
Identify wrong allocations and liaise with finance to prepare the necessary
journals. Report to system controller on challenges relating to the system and
23
ensure calls are logged. Prepare/draft a summary report for the verification by
the Director: SCM. Administration of theft and losses of assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Kgaritsi Tel No: (012) 399 9054
APPLICATIONS : CFO22-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 39/36 : ESTATE MANAGER REF NO: BC28/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Limpopo: Letaba Estate
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) in Forestry Management or relevant qualification
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in Forestry
management and or Protected areas. Knowledge and understanding of the
National Forests Act (NFA), and the National Veld and Forest Fire Act (NVFFA),
and other related legislation. Knowledge of Performance Management
Systems, reporting systems and processes. Knowledge of Government
business practices and policies. Communication skills (written and verbal).
Problem Solving and Analysis. Risk Management and Projects skills. Ability to
negotiate in difficult situations and to resolve conflicts. Ability to gather and
analyse information. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Preserving the biodiversity of the estate to ensure the continued livelihood
within the forest estate. Management and rehabilitation of degraded forest
areas. Implement short- and long-term plans for management of estate and
forest resources. Develop and manage the implementation of annual plan of
operations (APOs,), business plans. Manage forest protection activities.
Ensure the implementation of Principles Criteria Indicators, and Standards for
sustainable Forestry Management. Ensure the implementation, enforcement,
and promotion of the National Forest Act (NFA) and National Veld Forest Fire
Act (NVFFA). Manage environmental protection activities. Plan and implement
pest/disease control initiatives. Plan and supervise the removal of alien species
(rehabilitation processes). Ensure stakeholder liaison engagements.
Coordinate awareness campaigns (Fire, Participatory Forest Management).
ENQUIRIES : Dr. TV Ramatshimbila Tel No: (012) 309 5716
APPLICATIONS : BC28-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 39/37 : PRINCIPAL FORESTRY SCIENTIST REF NO: BC27/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Mpumalanga (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Forestry/ Nature Conservation/ Natural Resources
Management/ Environmental Science/ Environmental Management or relevant
qualification recognized by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in
woodland and Indigenous Forest management. Knowledge and understanding
of the National Forest Act,1998 (Act No. 84 of 1998) and National Veld and
Forest Fire Act, 1998 (Act No.101 of 1998), the National Environmental
Management Act (NEMA), the National Environmental Management: Protected
Areas Act (NEMPA), other environmental legislations and regulatory
processes. Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service Act, the PFMA,
and the Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of Indigenous Forestry and or
Protected areas operational processes. Skills: People management and
empowerment, financial management, Project and programme management,
Communication (written and verbal), Leadership, Facilitation and negotiation
skills, Planning and execution. Abilities: to work long hours, to apply policies.
work individually and in teams, work with difficult persons, and resolve conflicts.
Innovative and proactive. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Ensure sustainable management of woodlands and indigenous forests through
promoting use of forests for various purposes. Provide support to the licensing
processing as per the National Forest Act (NFA) delegations. Enforcement and
monitoring compliance of NFA, NVFFA and other Environmental legislations.
Provide support on EIA processes. Conducting the identification of Rare,
Threatened and Endangered species (RTEs) within the state forest as per the
Principle, Criteria, Indicators and Standards Framework (PCI&S). Verifying
state forest boundaries. Conduct conservation planning and ensure
compliance with national biodiversity management frameworks. Develop and
monitor the implementation of the Directorate Business Plan, including the
rehabilitation programmes, stakeholder engagement campaigns. Promote the
expansion of new woodland coverage, and where possible, the
restoration/rehabilitation of ancient woodland. Conduct ecological forest
24
monitoring and research. Monitor and support the implementation of capacity
building and environmental empowerment strategies.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. TV Ramatshimbila Tel No: (012) 309 5716
APPLICATIONS : BC27-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 39/38 : SENIOR FORESTER REF NO: BC26/2025
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Mpumalanga (Maripskop)
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Forestry/ Nature Conversation or relevant
qualification recognized by SAQA. minimum experience of two (2) years in
indigenous forest management or related field. Knowledge of all relevant acts
such as National Forests Act (NFA), National Veld and Forest Fires’s Act
(NVFFA), National Environmental Management Act (NEMA), National
Environmental Management: Biodiversity Act (NEMBA), Public Service Act
(PSA), Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Skills: Knowledge of forest
management sector, computer, people management, leadership, planning and
organising, financial management, Environmental Impact Assessments and
Geographical Information System (GIS) techniques. A valid driving license.
DUTIES : Contributes to the estate infrastructure and recreational facilities maintenance.
Maintenance of Forest boundary beacons and fences. Conduct rehabilitation
of the conservation areas. Assist in preservation of forest biodiversity to ensure
the continued livelihood within the forest estate. Assist in the development and
implementation of the management plan for the forest estate, which deals with
the following: rehabilitation of degraded forest areas, wetlands, and riparian
zones. Implementation of the National Forest Act, 1998 (Act No. 84 of 1998),
as amended and National Veld and Forest Fire Act, 1998 (Act No. 101 of 1998),
as amended. Recording and monitoring and recording of rare, threatened, and
endangered species, Implementation of invasive alien plant control,
implementation of the PCI&S framework. Management of woodlots associated
with some indigenous forests. Promote environmental awareness and manage
relationships with all affected stakeholders. Presentations to visitors, schools,
and communities. Capacity building of local communities in forest related
legislations. Promote, facilitate, and monitor forest access by users and
visitors. Promote tree planting and relevant environmental campaigns. Manage
risk and security aspects of the forest estate. Staff supervision.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. TV Ramatshimbila Tel No: (012) 309 5716
APPLICATIONS : BC26-2025@dffe.gov.za
25
ANNEXURE F
GOVERNMENT TECHNICAL ADVISORY CENTRE (GTAC)
APPLICATIONS : Only online applications will be accepted. Applications not accompanied by a
comprehensive CV and fully completed and signed Z83 form will not be
considered. Please register or if you are already registered, sign in and apply
for the position/s on the GTAC eRecruitment website
https://erecruitment.gtac.gov.za/erecruitment/
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025 at 12 pm.
NOTE : Only South African Citizens and Permanent Residents need to apply as per
PSR 2016. Applications should be accompanied by a duly completed and
signed Z83 form (obtainable from any Public Service department). The post
title and reference number must be clearly indicated on the Z83 form. A recent
comprehensive CV should be submitted. Certified copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents will be required to be submitted to HR on or before
the day of the interview from shortlisted candidates. All short-listed candidates
will be subjected to security vetting to confirm employment, personnel
suitability checks and undergo an SMS competency assessment prior to the
interview. Short-listed candidates must make themselves available for a panel
interview on the date determined by GTAC. Late applications and those not
meeting the requirements will not be considered. Should you not receive
feedback from GTAC within 2 months of the closing date, please consider your
application unsuccessful. GTAC reserves the right to fill or not fill the advertised
post. Preference will be given according to the EE and Gender target. In
accordance with the DPSA Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development,
Mandatory Training Days and Minimum requirements, this SMS level
appointment will be subject to the completion of the Senior Management Pre-
entry programme as endorsed by the National School of Government. The
applicants should therefore have proof that they have registered for the Pre-
entry certificate and have completed the course before the appointment. The
cost of the pre-entry certificate is at the candidate’s expense. To access the
pre-certificate course, please visit: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme. The GTAC is an equal-opportunity
employer and encourages applications from women and people with
disabilities. Our buildings are accessible to people with disabilities and
reasonable accommodation is provided for persons with disabilities.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 39/39 : TECHNICAL FINANCE SPECIALIST (JOBS FUND) REF NO: G15/2025 (X2
POSTS)
Term: 24 months fixed-term contract
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive), PSR 44 will apply to
candidates appointed in the Salary Level
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelors Degree/ Advanced Diploma/ BTech (NQF Level 7) in finance,
management accounting or financial accounting or economics or business
administration or another related field. A Postgraduate qualification (NQF Level
8) in finance, management accounting or financial accounting or economics or
business administration or another related field would be advantageous. 10-15
years’ experience in appraising, negotiating and closing Project Finance,
Corporate Finance transactions. Experience in deal structuring will be an
advantage. Minimum of 7 years’ experience in a project management
environment. Practice as a project manager will be an advantage. Public sector
and grant management experience will be an advantage. Strong analytical
skills, strategic and critical thinking, risk management and communication skills
will be an advantage. Experience in the use of relevant AI tools will be an
advantage. 5 years of experience at a middle/senior managerial level.
Competencies Required: Client Service Orientation: Client-service orientation
implies helping or serving others to meet their needs. It means focusing on
discovering those needs, figuring out how to best meet them, as well as putting
into practice the Batho Pele spirit. Concern for Quality and Order: Desire to see
things done logically, clearly and well. It takes various forms: monitoring and
checking work and information, insisting on the clarity of roles and duties and
setting up and maintaining an information system. Effective Communication:
26
Ability to transmit and receive information clearly and communicate effectively
with others by considering their points of view in order to respond appropriately.
This may involve listening, interpreting, formulating, and delivering verbal, non-
verbal, written, and/or electronic messages. It includes the ability to convey
ideas and information in a way that brings understanding to the target
audience. Emotional Intelligence: Capacity for recognising their own feelings
and those of others, for motivating themselves and others as a result of this
awareness, and for managing emotions within themselves and in others.
Integrity Honesty: Contributes to maintaining the integrity of the organisation;
displays high standards of ethical conduct and understands the impact of
violating these standards on an organisation, self, and others; is trustworthy.
Resource Planning: Organises work, sets priorities and determines resource
requirements; determines short- or long-term goals and strategies to achieve
them; coordinates with other organisations or parts of the organisation to
accomplish goals; monitors progress and evaluates outcomes. Systems
Thinking: Orientation to think in system-wide terms with regard to functions or
divisions within the organisation. This includes spotting opportunities to
connect with initiatives underway in other areas or proactively sharing
information or resources that can be seen to have relevance and impact for
others. Valuing Diversity: Ability to understand and respect the practices,
customs, values and norms of other individuals, groups and cultures. It goes
beyond what is required by governmental employment equity regulations to
include the ability to respect and value different points-of-view, and to be open
to others of different backgrounds or perspectives. It includes seeing others'
differences as a positive part of the work environment. It also means being able
to work well with a wide variety of people representing different backgrounds,
cultures and socio-economic levels. Vision and Purpose: Modelling and
promoting high personal and professional standards that support the
organisation's vision, mandate and values. Sharing goals, objectives and ideas
to encourage others to commit to and be enthusiastic about realising the vision.
Administrative Operations: Knowledge, capabilities and practices associated
with the support of administrative and management activities to facilitate
organisational and mission goals and objectives. This competency requires
knowledge of the appropriate rules, regulations, processes and associated
systems within various enabling functions, which may include human
resources management, resource management, employee support services,
documentation, procurement and financial management. Computer Literacy:
Knowledge and ability to use computers and technology efficiently. Refers to
the comfort level someone has with using computer programs and other
applications associated with computers (MS Office, Internet, email). Project
Management: Knowledge of the principles, methods, or tools for developing,
scheduling, coordinating, and managing projects and resources, including
monitoring and inspecting costs, work, and contractor performance.
DUTIES : To provide technical and financial support in the management of the Jobs Fund
portfolio of projects and contribute to the achievement of projected outcomes
and the knowledge and learning agenda of the Fund. Technical Support –
Development of Funding round term sheet/ project origination/ Financial
appraisals/financial structuring/contracting: Provide financial technical support
on project due diligence and appraisals of new projects, including the financial
structuring of new applications. Manage a portfolio of projects and a team.
Provide input into the quarterly stakeholder reports. Prepare and contribute to
the development of Term Sheets for new funding rounds. Assist with project
origination activities to develop a pipeline of fundable projects. Quality assure
appraisals before submitting them to the Technical Evaluation and Investment
committees. Provide support to the team presenting recommendations to the
Technical Evaluation and Investment committees. Ensure that the contracting
of new projects is finalised within the prescribed timelines, including the drafting
of the financial contractual obligations. Conduct Roadshows for new funding
rounds. Financial Management & Disbursements: Facilitate efficiency
improvements to the Jobs Fund’s Grant Management Framework and
Procedures. Provide technical support to project teams to ensure effective
management of projects and the meeting of the Jobs Fund’s annual
disbursement and job targets. Ensure effective in-quarter management of the
project portfolio. Conduct risk-based oversight on the project portfolio and
manage appropriately. Design and implement remedial actions to address
underperformance. Prepare for and participate in quarterly Disbursement
Panel meetings. Quality assure disbursement memoranda, ensure issues are
27
fully addressed and supporting evidence is recorded to facilitate timeous
disbursements to projects as per the Fund’s Disbursement Framework. Ensure
audit readiness of project portfolio, audit findings are timeously resolved and
that appropriate controls are in place to ensure no repeat findings. Internal
Business Processes: Conduct baseline assessment of key business
processes, including financial management, improve turnaround times and
ensure timeous resolution of issues delaying disbursements to projects.
Provide support for the implementation of new technologies to improve
operational efficiencies within the Jobs Fund. Support the maintenance of
sound governance structures in the Jobs Fund by ensuring all evidence
submitted by projects is consistent with agreed means of verification and that
document management and filing protocols are adhered to. Ensure timeous
approvals of quarterly project management reports. Effective planning of
project site visits (SV) to ensure effective project implementation and efficient
utilisation of operational budget. Learning and Growth Agenda: Improve the
visibility of the work and achievements of the Jobs Fund by: Cultivating
relationships with key market stakeholders. Producing discussion documents,
Practice Notes, conducting research on relevant issues pertaining to the work
of the Jobs Fund and publishing results. Prepare Webinar content and host
periodically. Represent the Jobs Fund at conferences and participate in panel
discussions. Identify appropriate channels for the Jobs Fund to promote its
knowledge agenda. Generate, package and disseminate research information
for specific stakeholders by: Supporting the team in developing terms of
reference for project evaluations to be conducted. Supporting the team in
finalising project close-out reports. Preparing and delivering Learning Papers/
Research Papers/ Practice Guides/ Articles related to the work of the Jobs
Fund. Contribute to the internal learning agenda of the Jobs Fund by:
Identifying relevant brown bag topics and presenting. Development of related
learning material and presentation to the Jobs Fund team. Coordinate with
other members of the finance team to review financial information and
forecasts. Stakeholder Management: Maintain communication with staff and
other key stakeholders regarding financial matters. Motivate and provide
support to project teams to achieve their targets. Provide technical and non-
technical support to Jobs Fund staff and other stakeholders. Maintain
relationships with all Contracted Intermediaries to ensure sound risk
management at the project-level and overall portfolio-level. Risk Management:
Develop and Manage Jobs Fund Risk Framework. Develop strategies to
mitigate the financial and performance risk of the Jobs Fund. Monitor Jobs
Fund portfolio, including project-level risk status, identify and implement
corrective actions. Strategic Fund Management: Support the Management
team in developing the financing strategy for the Jobs Fund. Own and manage
specific financial management processes. Provide training to staff and improve
their financial appraisal and management skills. Contribute to and facilitate
strategic planning sessions within the Jobs Fund and sub-programmes.
ENQUIRIES : HR Enquiries: Kaizer Malakoane at 066 250 7072
/kaizer.malakoane@gtac.gov.za
Technical Job Enquiries: jobsfund@treasury.gov.za
28
ANNEXURE G
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(MALUTI TVET COLLEGE)
ERRATUM: Department of Higher Education and Training (King Hintsa TVET
College): Kindly note that the following posts were advertised in Public Service
Vacancy Circular 24 dated 11 July 2025, Assistant Director: Registration
Services with Ref No: KHC/2025/07/REG; Assistant Director: Labour
Relations: with Ref No: KHC/2025/07/LR; Assistant Director: Office of the
Principal: with Ref No: KHC/2025/07/GOV, MIS Officer: MIS with Ref No:
KHC2025/07/MISO, Transport Officer: Facilities: with Ref No:
KHC/2025/07/FAC, Financial Aid Officer: Bursary: with Ref No:
KHC/2025/07/FA, Examination Officer: Exams: with Ref No:
KHC/2025/07/EXM, Academics and Student Support Services: Academics:
with Ref No: KHC/2021/11/02, Debtors Clerk: Finance: with Ref No:
KHC/2025/07/DC, Secretary to DPF: Finance: with Ref No:
KHC/2025/07/SEC, Administrative Clerk: SCM: with Ref No:
KHC/2025/07/SCM, Admin Clerk: HRM: with Ref No: KHC/2025/07/HRM, the
Posts have been withdrawn. And also Kindly note that the following posts were
advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 30 dated 22 August 2025, Lab
Assistant: Willowvale campus: with Ref No: KHC2025/LA WIL, Lab Assistant:
Dutywa campus: with Ref No: KHC2025/LA DUT, Lab Assistant: Teko campus:
with Ref No: KHC2025/LA TEK, Electrical Workshop Assistant: Msobomvu
campus: Ref No: KHC2025/WA MSO, the Posts have been withdrawn.
OTHER POST
POST 39/40 : SECRETARY (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Central Office (Directorate: Academic Services) Ref No: MALUTITVET/AS-
014/2025
Corporate Office (Directorate: Financial Management) Ref No:
MALUTITVET/FM-015/2025
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/ Grade 12/ Standard 10 or NCV Level 4. Appropriate
National Diploma/Degree in Secretarial/Management Assistant/Office
Management and Technology or relevant qualification. 3 months experience in
secretarial services. Competencies and attributes: Knowledge of relevant
legislation, prescripts, policies and procedures. Basic knowledge of financial
Management. Record management of documents. Skills: Ability to
communicate well with people at different levels and backgrounds. Good
telephone etiquette. Computer literacy (type 65 WPM). Sound organizational
skills. Good people skills. High level of reliability. Basic written communication
skills. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Good grooming and presentation.
Maintain confidentiality.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/ receptionist support service to the manager: Record
appointments and events in the diary of the manager. Types documents for the
manager. Provide a clerical support service to the manager: Arranges meetings
and events for the manager and the staff in the unit. Processes the travel and
subsistence claims for the manager. Records minutes of the meetings of the
manager where required. Filing of documents for the manager and the unit
where required. Receives, records and distributes all incoming and outgoing
documents. Collects all relevant documents to enable the manager to prepare
for meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NJ Ntsela Tel No: (058) 303 1732
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be posted or hand-delivered to Human Resource
Management: Maluti TVET College, Corporate Office, Private Bag X33,
Bethlehem, 9700 or hand-delivered at Maluti TVET College: Corporate Office,
Corner High & Broster Street, Bethlehem, 9700. Email applications can be
forwarded to hrrecruitment@malutitvet.co.za in pdf format and as one
attachment. Indicate the relevant reference number and job title on the subject
line.
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on a
Z83 form (effective from 01 January 2021) obtainable from any Public Service
department as well as Maluti TVET College Corporate Office or from Maluti
TVET College Official website www.malutitvet.co.za. The Z83 form must be
29
signed, initialed and dated. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must
be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents on application but must submit the completed Z83
form and a detailed curriculum vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from HR. Foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by a SAQA evaluation report. Immigrants should apply for work
permits before assumption of duty. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied
by its own application for employment. Applicants who do not comply with the
abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received
late will not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Maluti TVET College is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. Preference will be given to Indians and
Coloured as per the EE targets of the College. People with disability are
encouraged to apply. It is the College’s intention to promote equity (race,
gender and disability) through the filling of this posts. NB: Please consider your
application as unsuccessful should you not be contacted within 60 days from
the closing date of this advertisement. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a
skills/knowledge/competence exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability
check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification
verification and employment verification). Successful candidates may be
required to work at other places as may reasonably be required by the
Department and the College. Maluti TVET College reserves the right to
withdraw any of the mentioned advert.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025 @13:00
30
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF HOME AFFAIRS
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
commsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
sent to the correct email address specified at the bottom of the post, on or
before the closing date, accompanied by a fully completed Application for
Employment Form (New Z83, effective from 1 January 2021), obtainable at
www.dpsa.gov.za and a comprehensive CV, citing the start and end date
(dd/mm/yy), job title, duties performed and exit reason for each employment
period to be considered, as well as the details of at least two contactable
employment references (as recent as possible); limited to 2.5MB in size.
Shortlisted candidates are required to submit a copy of their ID document, a
valid driver’s license (if specified as a job requirement), relevant educational
qualifications / RPL certificates / Academic Transcripts of completed
qualifications, and details of current earnings (latest salary advice) as directed.
Furthermore, applicants who possess (a) foreign qualification(s), are required
to submit the evaluated results of such qualifications, as received from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to employment suitability checks (credit, criminal, citizenship,
qualifications, and employment references including verification of exit
reasons, and conducting business with State). In order to be considered for
appointment into Senior Management (SMS) posts, applicants potentially
considered suitable are required to complete the online “Pre-entry Certificate
for entry into the Senior Management Services” course; obtainable at the
National School of Government (NSG), under the name “Certificate for entry
into the SMS”. Full details can be obtained via the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Once
appointed, the entering into of an employment contract (for SMS posts),
serving of a prescribed probation period, and obtaining of a security clearance
appropriate to the post, will be required. Correspondence between the
Department and candidates will be limited to shortlisted candidates, only.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 39/41 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: COMMUNICATION SERVICES REF NO: HRMC 45/25/1
Branch: Operations
SALARY : R1 494 900 - R1 787 328 per annum (Level 14), (an all-inclusive salary
package), structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package; State
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic salary.
The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the applicable
remuneration rules.
CENTRE : Head Office, Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Relations, Journalism,
Communications, Marketing, Creative Writing or a related field within a
communications environment at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA. Five
years’ experience in a Senior Management position is required in the
Communications environment. Knowledge and understanding of social media
platforms and the professional use of social media tools. Knowledge and
understanding of all media platforms (TV, radio: national and local stations).
Knowledge and understanding to translate the Home Affairs mandate, in the
Communications unit, to the wider Department and country. Knowledge and
understanding of brand management and implementation of strategic
communication. Knowledge and understanding of Public Services legislation.
Knowledge and understanding of all Departmental prescripts and Legislations.
Knowledge and understanding of South African Constitution. Knowledge and
understanding of Public Service Regulatory Frameworks (Public Service Act
and Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Knowledge and understanding
of Good Corporate Governance principles (King V). Ability to work under
31
pressure. A valid drivers license, willingness to travel and work extended hours.
Management Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership. People
Management and Empowerment. Programme and Project Management.
Financial Management. Change Management. Functional Competencies:
Knowledge Management. Stakeholder Management. Ability to lead Media
Relations. Opinion polling and market surveys. Service Delivery Innovation
(SDI). Social Media Expertise. Problem Solving and Analysis. Client
Orientation and Customer Focus. Communications. Support with digital
transformation. Skills: Written and oral communication skills. Presentation
skills. Planning and Organising. Influencing and networking. Computer literacy.
Outcomes-driven. Time Management (ability to meet deadlines). Excellent
verbal and written communication skills. Business report writing. Decision
making skills. Problem solving skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Ensure the effective implementation of the Department’s
communication strategy. Develop, manage and implement an internal
communication plan that is aligned to the Department’s integrated
communication strategy and strategic objectives. Ensure commitment to the
Departmental vision of harnessing digital transformation to deliver Home
affairs@home. Oversee internal communications to ensure alignment and
cohesion across all DHA offices and stakeholders. Ensure the unit is
continually innovative and thinking of the best ways to live out the vision
towards digital transformation including digitising manual and outdated
processes. Manage and implement communication channels and tools that will
enable effective communication across the Department. Manage the drafting
of communication materials and ensure superior editorial standards. Oversee
the Department’s medium of communication. Ensure provision of external
communication services in the Department. Develop comprehensive
communication strategic programmes and manage external communication.
Manage direct content and implement of marketing and public awareness
campaigns. Manage and oversee the development of creative concepts,
design and copy for any Departmental publications. Develop partnership with
the other departments and private organisations to develop educational
opportunities for diverse audiences across South Africa and abroad, to market
the Department’s offerings and any changes. Manage and maintain the
Department’s corporate image and ensure the development and continued
updating of the Department’s Brand Guide. Manage advertising functions
(including brochures and publications). Manage and analyse opinion polling
and market surveys to refine communications. Ensure excellent work and
collaboration with GCIS. Ensure media monitoring and liaison in all matters
pertaining to the Department. Act as Media Liaison for Departmental media
statements and manage all responses professionally and timeously. Monitor
and analyse the reporting to and interactions with the media on matters
concerning the Department. Ensure that the unit maintains an updated and
comprehensive database of strategic media contacts. This includes radio,
television, print, new media and any specialist publications (this includes local
and international). Manage the collection of data from online information
sources. Ensure research and analyse available information from various
mediums (i.e Newspapers, magazines, websites, newsletters and
publications). Ensure planning of Departmental events, liaise with internal and
external stakeholders, including the Office of the Minister. Ensure preparation
of summary briefings to stakeholders and Principals on programmes pertaining
to the Department. Provide strategic leadership and direction to the Unit.
Provide strategic guidance and expert advice in terms of communication
liaison. Ensure implementation of the business plans. Monitor and report to the
Deputy Director-General on the performance of the unit against the objectives
of the DHA Strategic Plan. Manage various strategic projects and programmes
identified to meet short, medium and long term objectives of DHA. Guides
EXCO on the prioritisation of communication initiatives and key messages.
Ensure the effective communication of the DHA strategy to all DHA Business
Units and the Provinces. Develop, monitor and implementation of policies and
procedures, directives, acts and regulations. Develop and review
communication policies and code of practice. Management of service providers
in line with supply chain management processes. Implement governance
processes, frameworks and procedures. Monitor and ensure compliance with
policies, procedures and prescripts. Monitor progress on execution of
operational plans. Ensure compliance with all audit requirements, quality and
32
risk management frameworks, standards and procedures. Plan the production
of annual reports in line with the corporate strategy. Ensure effective and
efficient management of human, physical and financial resources within the
Unit. Provide strategic leadership, direction and advice to the Department, as
well as the Unit. Coach and guide staff on compliance with all regulatory
requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms S Mkhaliphi Tel No: (012) 406 7109
33
ANNEXURE I
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development’s mandate is to ensure that there is
accessible justice system in our vibrant and evolving constitutional democracy. It is responsible,
amongst others, to enable Access to Justice for all, promote Constitutionalism, Rule of Law, Respect for
Human Rights; and to coordinate the State Litigation and Legal Advisory Services. The Department is
therefore presenting an opportunity to dynamic individuals with relevant competencies to join a dynamic
team in its quest to fulfill its mandate and deliver justice services to the people of South Africa.
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post.
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025
NOTE : The application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that do
not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for
submission. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications.
All shortlisted candidates for posts will be subjected to a technical and/or
competency assessment. A pre-entry certificate obtained from National School
of Government (NSG) is required before appointment for all SMS positions.
Candidate will complete a financial disclosure form and also be required to
undergo a security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must
provide the Police Clearance certificate from country of origin only when
shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of
vacant posts the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South
Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant
Human Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Reasonable accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities
including where driver’s license is a requirement. Correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not hear from us within 3
months of this advertisement, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Target.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 39/42 : DIRECTOR: FINANCE (X2 POSTS)
(This is a re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged
to re-apply).
SALARY : R1 266 714 - R1 492 122 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package).
The successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office – Free State Ref No: 25/46/FS (X1 Post)
Limpopo Provincial Office– Polokwane Ref No: 81/25/LMP (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification as recognized by SAQA in Financial
Management/Financial Accounting/ Internal Audit; Nyukela Certificate
(Certificate of entry into Senior Management Service from the (NSG) National
School of Government); 5 years’ experience at middle/senior managerial level
in financial management environment; Knowledge of budget management and
financial management principles; Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service: Financial Management and
regulatory framework/guidelines, the Public Service Act, the Public Service
Regulations, Treasury Regulations, Departmental Financial Instructions, the
Public Finance Management Act. Skills and Competencies: Strategic capability
and leadership; Programme and project management; Financial management;
Change management; Knowledge management; Service delivery innovation
(SDI); Problem solving and analysis; People management and empowerment;
34
Client orientation and customer focus; Communication skills; Computer
literacy; Honesty and integrity.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage the development of budget; Manage the
expenditure patterns; Manage and provide asset management services;
Manage and provide supply chain services; Manage and provide Third Party
Funds (TPF) services; Manage human, finance and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Free State: Ms N Dywili at (073) 775 0709
Limpopo: Mr. M.D Chauke Tel No: (015) 287 2080 or Ms. M.P Mongalo Tel No:
(015) 287 2037
APPLICATIONS : Free State: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Head, Private Bag X20578, Bloemfontein, 9300, hand deliver it
at 108 St Andrews Street (co St Andrew and West Burger Street),
Bloemfontein, 9300 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Limpopo: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X9526, Polokwane, 0700 OR Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Provincial Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0699
OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference number.
POST 39/43 : DIRECTOR: LEGAL ADMINISTRATION AND ADVOCACY (X2 POSTS)
(This is a re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged
to re-apply).
SALARY : R1 266 714 - R1 492 122 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package).
The successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Northern Cape Ref No: 40/25/NC/PROV-OFF (X1 Post)
Provincial Office Legal Services: Free State Ref No: 25/47/FS (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB or an appropriate Legal or Law Degree (NQF level 7) as recognized by
SAQA; A post graduate qualification in Law or Legal will be an added
advantage; 6 years’ experience in the field of Law, court
administration/management environment of which 5 years should be at
middle/senior managerial level; Nyukela Certificate (Certificate for Entry into
the Senior Management Service from the National School of Government);
Knowledge and understanding of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
Public Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations; Knowledge and
understanding of the Constitution, Constitutional law cases, criminal, civil and
family cases. Skills and Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership;
Programme and project management; Financial management; Change
management; Knowledge management; Service Delivery Innovation (SDI);
Problem solving and analysis; People management and empowerment; Client
orientation and customer focus; Communication; Computer literacy; Honesty
and integrity.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage the provision of legal administration and
statutory appointment; Manage family law services (Maintenance, Child
Justice and Intermediary); Manage language and interpreting services in
provinces; Facilitate the promotion and awareness of justice related services;
Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Northern Cape: Mr L Swartz Tel No: (053) 802 1300
Free State: Ms N. Dywili at (073) 775 0709
APPLICATIONS : Northern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: Postal address: The Provincial Head: Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X6106, Kimberley, 8300 or Hand delivers at the New
Public Buildings, (Magistrates Court) of Knight and Stead Streets, 7th floor,
Kimberley, 8301 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Free State: Please direct your applications to: The Director: Human Resource,
Private Bag X20578, Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand deliver to Physical Address
108 Corner St Andrew Street, Bloemfontein, 9301 OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference number.
35
OTHER POSTS
POST 39/44 : STATE LAW ADVISER: LP7/8 REF NO: 25/116/LD
SALARY : R932 904 – R1 539 321 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : South African Law Reform Commission: Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : LLB Degree or recognized 4-year legal qualification; At least 5 years
appropriate post qualification litigation / advisory experience; Admission as an
Attorney or Advocate; Knowledge of Constitutional Law, south African legal
system, legal practices and related spheres with specific reference to civil
litigation and law of contract; Knowledge of institution of legal proceedings
against certain organs of state act, Prescription Act, State Attorney Act, Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, Department
Financial Instructions and State Liability Act. Skills and Competencies: Applied
strategic Thinking; Applied technology; Budgeting and financial management;
Communication and information management; Continuous improvement;
Citizen Focus and Responsiveness; Diversity management; Impact and
influence; Managing interpersonal conflict and resolving problems; Planning
and organising; Decision making; Project management; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Plan and conduct research, including comparative
legal research in respect of the law of South Africa; Conduct extensive
consultation with stakeholders with a view to obtain inputs and comment on
draft research papers; Develop proposals for the development, improvement,
and modernization of the South African Law Reform; Develop
recommendations and draft legislation for Law Reform; Prepare issue papers,
discussion papers and reports that contain research, recommendations and
draft legislation for law reform; Conduct Socio Economic Impact Analysis on
research and legislative proposals; Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. R Sema Tel No: (012) 315 1333
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001.OR Physical address:
Application Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Street, Pretoria OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 39/45 : CHIEF REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: 2025/85/GP
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : State Attorney: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in
archives and records management. Skills and Competencies: Concern for
others; Creative thinking; Citizen Service Orientation; Decision making;
Diversity citizenship; Organizational communication Effectiveness; Problem
analysis; Self-Management; Team membership; Technical proficiency.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Supervise and provide registry counter services;
Supervise the handling of incoming and outgoing correspondence; Supervise
and render an effective filing and record management service; Supervise the
operation and operate office machines in relation to the registry function;
Supervise the processing and processing of documents for archiving
and/disposal; Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. V Shiburi Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Provincial
Office-Gauteng, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 OR Physical Address:
Provincial Office–Gauteng; Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; 7th floor Schreiner chambers, 94 Pritchard, Johannesburg OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 39/46 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: 25/VA33/NW
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Ditsobotla
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent; A minimum of three (3) years’ relevant
experience; Understanding of customer service oriented. Skills and
36
Competencies: Good Communication (verbal and written) skills; Computer
literacy (MS Office); Planning and Organizing.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render general clerical support services; Provide
supply chain clerical services within the office; Provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component; Supervise and
provide financial administration support services in the component; Provide
financial administration support services in the office; Provide effective people
management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L Shoai Tel No: (018) 397 7088
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at 22
Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mafikeng OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 39/47 : ACCOUNTING CLERK REF NO: 25/VA34/NW
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with commercial subjects; Knowledge and understanding of financial
legislation, Prescripts and Procedures; Knowledge of Basic Operating System
(BAS), Justice Yellow Page (JYP), PERSAL; Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Division of Revenue Act (DORA), Public Service Act
(PSA), Public Service Regulation (PSR) and Preferential of Procurement Policy
Framework Act (PPPFA); Knowledge of basic financial operating systems
(PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS). Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy (MS
Word, PowerPoint, Outlook and Excel); Strong communication skills (Written &
verbal); Creative and analytical; Planning and Organizing; Problem solving and
conflict Management; Accuracy and attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render financial accounting transactions; Perform
salary administration support services; Perform Bookkeeping support services;
Render a budget support service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L Shoai Tel No: (018) 397 7088
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at 22
Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mafikeng OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 39/48 : ESTATE CONTROLLER (EC1 – EC4) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R252 855 – R586 956 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Master of The High Court: Pretoria Ref No: 2025/86/GP (X1 Post)
Master of The High Court, Pietermaritzburg Ref No: 25/38/KZN (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree or recognized four years legal qualification; Knowledge of
Administration of Estates Act, Compliance, Mental Health, Insolvency Act and
other related Act, Registration of trusts Act, Curatorship’s Act; knowledge of all
local and international Legislation that regulates protection of children, South
African legal system, legal practices and related spheres with specific
reference to civil litigation and the law of contract. Knowledge of the
Constitution, the Institution of Legal Proceedings Against Certain Organs of
State Act, State Attorney Act, the Public Finance Management Act, Treasury
Regulations and the State Liability Act. Skills and Competencies: Legal
research and drafting; Case flow management; Estate duties; Trust; Dispute
resolution; Communication skills (verbal and written); Problem solving;
Customer focus; Attention to detail; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Administer deceased and Insolvent Estates,
Curatorships, Trusts and all aspects related to the administration thereof;
Determine and assess estate duties in terms of the Estate Duties Act; Conduct
research and draft legal documents; Render administrative functions of the
office.
ENQUIRIES : Gauteng: Ms. P Raadt Tel No: (011) 332 9000
KwaZulu-Natal: Ms N.F. Nkosi Tel No: (031) 3723000
APPLICATIONS : Gauteng: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Office, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 OR Physical
address: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development; 7th floor
37
Schreiner Chambers, 94 Pritchard Street; Johannesburg OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
KwaZulu-Natal: Quoting the relevant reference number and courier your
application to: Physical address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place
Off Anton Lembede Street, Durban or drop-off on the above address OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference number.
38
ANNEXURE J
DEPARTMENT OF LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : The application must include only a completed and signed new Z83 Form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the Department of Public
Service and Administration (DPSA) website link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ and a detailed Curriculum Vitae
which may be posted, hand delivered or e-mailed using the addresses provided
for in each advertisement, note only the Z83 and detailed Curriculum Vitae
should be attached and must be limited to 10 megabytes and submitted as a
PDF document. The DLRRD will not be held responsible for server delays.
Certified copies of Identity Document, Grade 12 Certificate and the highest
required qualifications as well as a driver’s licence where necessary and
service certificates to support senior management experience, will only be
submitted by shortlisted candidates to Human Resources on or before the day
of the interview date. Failure to do so will result in your application being
disqualified. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation
report issued by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by SAQA
and to provide proof of such evaluation report (only when shortlisted). The
requirements for appointment at the Senior Management Service (SMS) level
include the successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-entry
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG). Prior
to appointment, a candidate would be required to complete the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS as endorsed by DPSA which is an
online course, endorsed by the NSG. The course is available at the NSG under
the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the full details can be sourced
by the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/. No appointment will take place without the successful completion
of the pre-entry certificate and submission of proof thereof. All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS, are required to undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical assessment, and the other will be an
integrity (Ethical Conduct) assessment. Selection committees will score both
pre-entry assessments as an additional criterion in the interview process, to
determine the candidate’s suitability based on post technical and generic
requirements. Following the interview, practical exercise and integrity
assessment for SMS positions, the selection committee will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment in
compliance with the DPSA Directive on the Implementation of Competency
Based Assessments. The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. NB: Please note that false or fraudulent qualifications
submitted by applicants will be reported to the South African Police Services
(SAPS), and a criminal case shall be opened. Applications: Please ensure that
you submit your application before the closing date as no late applications will
be considered. Candidates are discouraged from submitting duplicate
applications. If you apply for more than 1 post, please submit separate
applications for each post that you apply for. Due to the large number of
applications we envisage to receive, applications will not be acknowledged.
Should you not be contacted within 3 months of the closing date of the
advertisement, please consider your application to be unsuccessful. Should,
during any stage of the recruitment process, a moratorium be placed on the
filling of posts or the Department is affected by any process such as, but not
limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts, the Department reserves the
right to cancel the recruitment process and re-advertise the post at any time in
the future. Important: DLRRD is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representivity in DLRRD through the
filling of posts. The Department reserves the right not to fill a position. In
compliance with the Protection of Personal Information Act 4 of 2013 (POPIA),
the DLRRD assures all applicants that any personal information provided
during the recruitment process will be treated with the utmost confidentiality
and used solely for recruitment purposes. Your privacy and data security are
of paramount importance to us. By applying for any of these posts, you consent
to the collection, processing (including dissemination to third parties for
purposes of verification of qualifications, credit record, criminal record, etc),
39
and storage of your personal information for recruitment and selection-related
activities only. The DLRRD is committed to safeguarding your privacy and
maintaining the trust you place in us. Shortlisted candidates will be required to
be available for assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined
by the Department. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to Personnel
Suitability Checks. The successful candidate will be subjected to undergo
security vetting. DLRRD will conduct reference checks which may include
social media profiles of the shortlisted candidates. Applicants must declare any
pending criminal, disciplinary or any other allegations or investigations against
them. Should this not be declared and uncovered during / after the interview
took place, the application will not be considered and in the unlikely event that
the person has been appointed such appointment will be terminated. The
successful candidate will be appointed subject to positive results of the security
clearance process. The successful candidate will be required to enter into an
employment contract and sign an annual performance agreement and annually
disclose her or his financial interests with the Department. All applicants are
required to declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose
memberships of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with.
OTHER POSTS
POST 39/49 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK (SUPERVISOR) REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/14
Directorate: Corporate Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : North West (Mmabatho)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate or relevant equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years' experience
working in a Human Resource environment. Job-related knowledge:
Knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data
and operate a computer. Working knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of storage and
retrieval procedures in terms of the working environment. Understanding of the
work in registry. Job-related skills: Planning and organisational, Computer
literacy and Communication (verbal and written). Interpersonal relations.
Flexibility and working within a team.
DUTIES : Supervise and undertake more complex implementation and maintenance of
human resource administration practices. Human resource provisioning
(recruitment and selection, appointments, transfer, verification of qualifications,
secretariat functions at interviews, absorptions, probationary periods etc.).
Implement conditions of service and service benefits (leave, housing, medical,
injury on duty, long service recognition, overtime, relocation, pension,
allowances etc.). Termination of services. Recommend (approve) transactions
on Personnel and Salary Administration (PERSAL) according to delegations,
(final authorisations should happen on a higher level preferably at Assistant
Director or higher level). Performance management. Prepare reports on human
resource administration issues and statistics. Handle human resource
administration enquiries. Manage enquiries from internal and external clients.
Supervise human resources/staff. Allocate and ensure quality of work.
Personnel development. Apply discipline. Assess staff performance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr KE Sebitiele Tel No: (018) 388 7115
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: Coner
James Moroka and Sekame Drive, West Gallery, Megacity, Mmabatho, 2735
or by email to P14@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian
and White Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 39/50 : SECRETARY REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/12
Directorate: Corporate Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Northern Cape (Kimberley)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate. Job-related knowledge: Computer literacy (Microsoft Word,
Microsoft Excel, PowerPoint, etc.) Job-related skills: Good telephone etiquette,
Sound organisational skills, Good people skills, Computer literacy, Ability to
communicate well with people at different levels and from different
40
backgrounds (both written and verbal), Ability to act with tact and discretion.
Good grooming and presentation.
DUTIES : Provide a secretariat / receptionist support service to the Director. Receive
telephonic calls and refers the calls to the correct role players if not meant for
the relevant senior manager. Record appointments and events in the diary.
Types documents for the senior manager and other staff within the unit on a
word process. Operate office equipment e.g. Fax machines and photocopiers.
Provide a clerical support service to the Senior Manager. Liaise with travel
agencies to make travel arrangements. Check arrangements when relevant
documents are received. Arrange meetings and events for the senior manager
and the staff in the unit. Identifies venues, invite role players, organise
refreshments and sets up schedules for meeting and events. Process the travel
and subsistence claims for the unit. Process all invoices that emanate from the
activities of the work of the senior manager. Records basic minutes of meetings
of the senior manager where required. Draft routine correspondence and
reports. Do filling of documents for the senior manager and the unit where
necessary. Administer matters like leave registers and telephonic accounts.
Receive, records and distributes all incoming and outgoing documents. Handle
the procurement of standard items like stationary, refreshments etc. Collects
all relevant documents to enable the Director to prepare for meetings. Remains
up to date with regard to prescripts / policies and procedures applicable to her
/ his work environment to ensure efficient and effective support to the senior
manager. Study the relevant public service and the departmental prescripts /
policies and other documents to ensure that the application thereof is
understood properly. Remain abreast with the procedures and process that
apply in the office of the senior manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. T Oliphant Tel No: (053) 830 4056
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to:
Magistrate Court Building, 6th floor, Knight Street, Corner of Stead Street,
Kimberley, 8300 or by email to P12@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and White Females
and Persons with disabilities.
POST 39/51 : FINANCE CLERK REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/13
Directorate: Financial and Supply Chain Management Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Northern Cape (Kimberley)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate. Job-related knowledge: Basic knowledge of financial functions,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collate
financial statistics. Basic knowledge and insight of the Public Service financial
legislations procedures and Treasury Regulations (Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Division of Revenue Act (DORA), Public Service Act
(PSA), Public Service Regulations (PSR), Preferential Procurement Policy
Framework Act (PPPFA), Financial Manual). Knowledge of basic financial
operating systems (Personnel and Salary Administration (PERSAL), Basic
Accounting System (BAS), Logistical Information System (LOGIS) etc). Job
related skills: Planning and organising, Computer literacy, Language,
Communication (verbal and written) and Basic numeracy. Confidentiality,
fairness and honesty.
DUTIES : Render financial accounting transactions. Receive invoices. Check invoices for
correctness, verification and approval (internal control). Process invoices (e.g.
capture payment). Filling of all documents. Collection of cash. Perform salary
administration support services. Receive salary advices. Process advices (e. g
check advices for correctness, capture salaries, bonuses, salary adjustment,
capture all deductions etc). File all documents. Perform bookkeeping support
services. Capture all financial transactions. Clear suspense accounts. Record
debtors and creditors. Process electronic banking transactions. Compile
journals. Monitor and follow up on debtor accounts. Register new debts. Follow
up debt related submissions (State Attorney Cases etc). Sent Statements to
debtors monthly either by post or by email. Render a budget support service.
Collect information from budget holders. Compare expenditure against budget.
Identify variances. Capture, allocate virements on budgets. Distribute
documents regarding the budgets. File all documents. Receive and capture
cash payments.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Leberegane Tel No: (053) 830 4060
41
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to:
Magistrate Court Building, 6th floor, Knight Street, Corner of Stead Street,
Kimberley, 8300 or by email to P13@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Indian and White Males and Indian and White Females and
Persons with disabilities.
42
ANNEXURE K
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success and the National
Treasury ICT unit was unable to assist. The applicant’s profile on the e-
Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83, and it is the responsibility
of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or their applications
will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note. Certain documentation
will still be required to be uploaded on the system such as copies of all
qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric certificate, ID, etc.,
however these documents need not be certified at point of application, however
certification will be required prior to attending the interview. Please note: All
shortlisted candidates will be subjected to two assessments. The first
assessment will be a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job, while the second assessment will be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment, the logistics of which will be communicated by the
Department. It should be noted that the National Treasury does not support the
use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in any of its recruitment and selection
processes and will disqualify an application if it picks up the use of AI when
completing assessments without acknowledging the source of information.
Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government, available as
an online course on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/, prior to finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS
positions. For SMS positions certain candidates may be required to undergo
additional Psychometric Assessments. All qualifications, criminal and SA
citizenship checks will be conducted on all short-listed candidates and, where
applicable, additional checks will be conducted in line with the new DPSA
Directive effective 01 April 2024. By submitting your application, it also means
you consent to the National Treasury processing your information for Human
Resources Management purposes. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level certificates) evaluated
by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at your own expense.
Upon appointment, successful candidates will be required to sign a
Performance Agreement within 3 months from date of appointment and for
candidates whose appointment exceeds 12 calendar months will be appointed
on probation for the period of twelve (12) calendar months excluding leave
taken as prescribed by Public Service Regulation 68. The status of your
application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system. However, if you have
not received feedback from the National Treasury within 3 months of the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Note: The
National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned posts,
withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. All queries
must be submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment
Support Team on Recruitment.Enquiries@treasury.gov.za The National
Treasury is compliant with the requirements of POPIA.
43
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 39/52 : DIRECTOR: TRANSVERSAL CONTRACTING REF NO: S069/2025 (X2
POSTS)
Division: Office of the Chief Procurement Officer (OCPO)
Purpose: To manage a commodity unit within Transversal Contracting,
responsible for the efficient facilitation and processing of transversal term
contracts on behalf of government.
SALARY : R1 226 714 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum Bachelor’s degree (equivalent
to NQF level 7) in Economics or Business Economics or Supply Chain
Management or Logistics Management or Purchasing Management or
Commercial Law or Business Management or Business Administration. A
minimum of 5 years’ experience at a middle or senior managerial level obtained
in a supply chain management environment, Knowledge of research and
Project management methodology. Knowledge of the broader policy framework
on SCM, (PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Preferential Procurement Policy
Framework Act (PPPFA). Knowledge of SCM prescripts and directives.
Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service Senior Management
Leadership Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government
available as an online course on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Market Research: Review adequacy of existing transversal contracting policies
in conjunction with relevant stakeholders, Develop a long-term transversal
contracting proposal and sourcing strategy for government, Research a short-
term supply stabilization strategy in conjunction with relevant stakeholders,
Consult Supply Chain and Value Chain analysis to identify process
improvement opportunities, Identify opportunities for cost saving measures
through life-cycle costing, economies of scale and total cost of ownership of
transversal term contracts, Propose a standardized process that will meet the
requirements and specifications of users in compliance with policy and
procedures, Conduct market research to determine commodity trends on
usage, leasing, etc. Design, Develop and Implement transversal term contracts
Strategies: Develop implementation plan for sourcing strategy including
contract management, Develop implementation plan for sourcing strategy
including contract management, Provide technical support for the entire SCM
processes, Design a methodology for quantification of economic benefits,
Provide technical support for supplier due diligence. Improve internal control
strategies: Develop and review risk profiles for transversal contract
procurement, Enhance transparency and compliance with SCM processes,
Provide support for implementation of risk mitigation strategies. Improve
contract management in external environment: Provide technical support to all
spheres of government, Promote long term supplier relationships. Supplier
performance management and reporting: Coordinate the management of
supplier performance, Coordinate the management of contract performance.
Promote government socio-economic objectives: Support black economic
empowerment development, Support Proudly SA products, local content and
related policies, Support SMME development, Support all policies with
development and transformation agenda.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
OTHER POSTS
POST 39/53 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DATABASE DEVELOPMENT & MANAGEMENT REF
NO: S070/2025
Division: Budget Office (BO)
Purpose: To provide accurate and reliable financial data to the general sphere
of government for analysis, policy formulation and reporting in compliance with
legislation pertaining to domestic and international reporting standards and
requirements.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
44
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Information
Technology. A minimum of 4 years’ experience of which 2 years should be at
an Assistant Director level or equivalent obtained in budgeting and the
preparation of consolidated statistics. Experience in utilising the Microsoft suite
of products with specific emphasis on SQL, SharePoint and Excel, Experience
in SQL Integration Services. Experience in database querying and integration
of data sets from various platforms. Experience in working with large data sets,
Experience in the budgeting process of government. Experience in utilising
economic reporting formats.
DUTIES : Database Development & Management: Develop, manage and maintain a
formal database on housing revenue and expenditure data pertaining to the
budget- cycle, Apply data model changes to the database to enhance data
management and improve efficiency of data extraction and reporting, Design
and implement ETL (extract, transform and load) packages and scripts to
automate data processes from distributed systems. Data Analysis and
Techniques: Develop and enhance the maintenance of data analysis tools and
data collection templates to improve analysis techniques and processes,
Maintain and update business intelligence tools, databases, dashboards,
systems, and methods, Enhance processes and procedures regarding data
extraction from financial systems for reporting purposes, Provide technical
support to internal and external clients on data analysis tools and techniques,
Identify new data sources and integration of data from various platforms to
broaden data coverage and improve data analysis, Manage timely flow of
business intelligence information to users, Provide technical support and
subject matter expertise in the development and enhancement of reporting
systems to improve accuracy and integrity of data for internal and external
usage. Compliance with Legislative and International Requirements: Provide
data for integration in the Treasury publications and other working documents,
Align classification standards, circulars and practise notes consistent with
legislation. Compliance to Local and International Standards: Apply changes
to the Economic Reporting Format and the Standard Chart of Accounts to data,
Improve the integrity of data usage provided by National Treasury, for the
utilisation of other institutions (SARB and Stats SA), Align budget and
programme structure process of national and provincial departments for
processing and implementation on transversal financial systems used by
Government, Manage documenting of specifications for business intelligence
or information technology (IT) reports, dashboards, or other outputs.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
POST 39/54 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FISCAL RESEARCH REF NO: S071/2025
Division: Budget Office (BO)
Purpose: To define the fiscal policy research agenda of the National Treasury
on the short and long-term impacts of fiscal policy decisions with relevance to
the developmental goals of South Africa; support the production of the budget
documents.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum Bachelor’s degree (equivalent
to NQF level 7) in Economics or Theoretical or Applied Mathematics or
Mathematical Statistics or Computer Science. A minimum of 4 years’
experience of which 2 years should be at an Assistant Director level or
equivalent obtained in economic policy or economic research environment.
Experience in policy development and communication is also valued.
Knowledge of economics analysis and research. Knowledge of mathematics
and statistics will be an advantage.
DUTIES : Fiscal Policy Research: Undertake research in line with the requirements of the
National Treasury on the international and domestic macro-economic
environment, institutional frameworks and their impact on fiscal sustainability,
Develop policy and implement policy decisions of fiscal nature, Provide a
platform for oversight and credibility of information. Medium Term Budget
Policy Statement and Budget Review: Develop a broader fiscal policy work
plan for consideration and implementation, Provide an appropriate and
consistent presentation of fiscal policy content across chapters, Support the
45
production of the fiscal chapter, including associated tables and data
development, for credibility, Provide oversight on consistency of information
throughout the publication. Fiscal Analysis: Liaise with internal and external
stakeholders over the trajectory of elements related to fiscal sustainability,
Provide forecast on the modelling and variables related to the long-term
sustainability of the fiscus, Fiscal policy implications and responses to quarterly
macroeconomic forecasts. Benchmarking Research: Undertake economic
research, analysis and the relation to fiscal policy, Provide research into the
levels of the various fiscal indicators and their implications for sustainability,
growth, and development, Engage stakeholders on broader economic issues,
drawing particular attention to the role and impact of government.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
POST 39/55 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TRANSVERSAL CONTRACTING REF NO: S075/2025
(X3 POSTS)
Division: Office of the Chief Procurement Officer (OCPO)
Purpose: To coordinate the SCM commodity process within Transversal
Contracting in the facilitation and processing of transversal contracts and the
dissemination of specific terms and conditions of contracts.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Economics
or Business Economics or Supply Chain Management or Logistics or Financial
Management or Business Management. A minimum of 4 years’ experience of
which 2 years should be at an Assistant Director level or equivalent obtained
in a supply chain management environment. Knowledge and experience of the
PFMA, Treasury Regulations, SCM Policies and prescribes.
DUTIES : Management of Centralised Contracts: Manage the facilitation and
administration of Transversal Term Contracts with particular emphasis on the
following: Demand Management, Acquisition Management, Contract
Management, Supplier performance management and reporting. Promote and
Support Strategic Procurement of Transversal Term Contracts: Implement the
strategic procurement processes concerning transversal term contracts by:
Application and awareness of strategic sourcing, Developing quantification of
economic benefits of strategic procurement, Developing Pricing measures and
initiate benchmarking with market and industry in the analysis and
dissemination of projections in support of strategic procurement. Compliance
and Risk Management: Initiate the improvement of internal control measures,
conducive and in compliance with policies and procedures of transversal
contracting, as follows: Promote the transparency and compliance of SCM
processes, through awareness, Develop and implement risk mitigation
strategies, apply SCM business processes, Supplier performance
management, Improve contract management principles. Promote Government
Socio-Economic Objectives: Promote the implementation of government
policies aimed at improving and fast-tracking the socio-economic outputs, in
Transversal Term Contracts through: Black Economic Empowerment,
Industrial policies, Preferential Procurement, Small, Medium and Micro
Enterprises Development.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
46
POST 39/56 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DATA INTEGRITY AND STANDARDS REF NO:
S077/2025
Division: Budget Office (BO)
Purpose: To ensure that the quality and integrity of all government statistics
produced by the National Treasury is improved by providing an appropriate
data policy environment by researching, customising and implementing
applicable statistical classification standards and monitoring the
implementation of such policy reforms by managing the extraction and
interrogation of financial data records in terms of compliance with applicable
statistical classification standards.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Economics
or Statistics or Finance. A minimum of 4 years’ experience of which 2 years
should be at an Assistant Director level or equivalent obtained in statistical data
compilation and manipulation. Knowledge and experience of the budgeting
process in government. Knowledge of economics analysis and research.
Exposure to statistical and financial accounting standards relevant to public
sector, both local and international accounting standards applicable.
Understanding of the structure and legislative mandates of the organs of
government.
DUTIES : Data Integrity Improvement: Develop appropriate techniques for completing
data verification and validation activities, Initiate improved data inspection
techniques, Compile periodic reports, for internal Treasury consumption,
related to the relative accuracy and continued data relevance, Align data
publications and develop governance structures and procedures to accurately
manage data processes prior to publication, Provide oversight on the accuracy
of publications produced by other statistical agencies, i.e. Stats SA, SARB, by
implementing recon procedures and processes, so ensuring SDDS
compliance. Implementation of Data Standards: Monitor and improve the
implementation of the Economic Reporting Format designed and implemented
by the National Treasury, Comply with statistical data to accounting policy, via
compliance to GRAP standards and standards set by the Accounting
Standards Board, Align standards as prescribed by the IMF’s Special Data
Dissemination Standard (SDDS) in compliance to international reporting
standards, Prepare data inputs for inclusion in the National Accounts statistics,
published by the SARB and StatsSA, in line with the requirements of the
System of National Accounts (SNA93) and Eurostat. Development and
Enhancement of South African Data Standards: Drive the standards
development process to ensure compliance with relevant statistical standards,
Implement appropriate standards that will ensure the publication of
appropriately classified data in terms of the UN functional classification.
Management of SCOA Technical Committee and corresponding maintenance
process: Assume accountability for efficiency and strategic direction of the
SCOA Technical Committee, Retain accountability for working and delivery of
the SCOA Technical Committee, Perform the function of chairperson for the
SCOA Technical Committee, Ensure timely resolution of queries submitted to
the Technical Committee, Initiate publication of Classification Circulars and
chart of accounts and provide advice on classification. Stakeholders
Engagement: Engage on processes associated with the issuing of data
standards, including liaison with training teams, communication forums,
website administrators, etc, Engage on the internal processes related to impact
of change related to new or amended statistical standards, including the GFS,
SNA, COFOG, ISIC, GRAP and others in terms of the impacts to the data
structure.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
POST 39/57 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: REGULARITY AUDIT REF NO: S073/2025
Division: Office of the Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To manage the Regularity Audit plan for NT, ASB, IRBA and GTAC in
accordance with the planned regularity audit methodology.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive)
47
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Internal
Auditing or Risk Management or Accounting. A minimum of 4 years of which 2
years should be at an Assistant Director level or equivalent obtained in the
internal audit environment. Knowledge of Internal Audit Methodologies,
Fundamentals and Principles.
DUTIES : Strategic leadership and stakeholder management: Contribute to raising
awareness of the Internal Audit division with specific emphasis on Regularity
Audit through stakeholder engagement, Execute plans and guidelines to
ensure completion of strategic and operational activities, Liaise, co-coordinate,
establish and maintain good relations with stakeholders on audit related
matters, Contribute towards initiatives or recommendations by the Audit
Committee. Audit Process: Risk assessment, audit plan, assurance and
advisory services: Manage all Regularity audits and perform quality assurance,
Contribute to the review of the annual risk assessment. Contribute to the
development and alignment of the 3 year rolling audit plan and detailed annual
regularity audit plan based on the strategic and operational risks, Provide
advice and guidance on Regularity Audits to be conducted and propose
solutions for challenging technical related problems, Ensure completion of all
regularity audits as well as the findings register, Initial quality assurance of all
regularity audit reports before submission, Providing feedback and clarification
to the client relating to Regularity audit reports, control and technology related
matters. Resource management: Manage and develop Regularity Audit
resources to ensure effective and efficient delivery and overall achievement of
Regularity Audit objectives, Develop the training plan for Regularity Audit,
Perform resource allocation and priorities across regularity audit projects.
Process improvements and research: Keep abreast of global trends, new
developments in the Regularity audit, Identify areas for improvement to ensure
a sustainable Audit Strategy, Regularity Audit Methodology and Resource Plan
to ensure continuity of Regularity audit services. Management reporting:
Manage the Regularity Audit reporting processes, Present Regularity Audit
reports to clients, Provide feedback on the progress against the approved
Regularity Audit plan.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
POST 39/58 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TREASURY OPERATIONS REF NO: S066/2025
Division: Asset and Liability Management Budget Office (ALM)
Purpose: To assist with financial risk management and debt management
oversight of state-owned entities (SOEs).
SALARY : R582 444 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Financial
Accounting or Financial Risk Management or Financial Management. A
minimum of 3 years’ experience obtained within a financial risk management
analysis, treasury policy development, and implementation environment.
Knowledge and experience of the policy framework of the Treasury Operations
of SOEs. Knowledge and experience of financial markets. Knowledge and
experience of analysis and dissemination of information, e.g. financial data
pertaining to bond yields, commodity prices, currencies. Knowledge and
experience of research and benchmarking exercises with established
organisations.
DUTIES : Stakeholder Engagement: Promote relationships within SOEs through
collaboration, internally and externally, Assist with the development and
maintenance of information as required by stakeholders. Policy Development:
Review Treasury Management in terms of “Best Practices for Treasury
Management” and “Corporate Governance” as pertaining to Treasury
Management, Develop and update the Best Practices Guidelines for Treasury
Management, and relevant Treasury Regulations. Treasury Reviews: Review
the Treasury Operations of SOEs in line with the relevant guidelines, Review
the mandates of SOEs and the mandates of individual treasury operations and
align accordingly, Identify areas of risks within SOEs and implement remedial
actions to mitigate risk, Develop synergies between business and internal
48
National Treasury stakeholders pertaining to sub-sovereign debt management
and the issuance of contingent liabilities, Amend best practice statements from
credible sources within the broader scope of governance, risk management
and operations. Strategic Analysis: Evaluate the appropriateness of
governance and risk management models utilised for Treasuries in individual
SOEs and determine whether adjustments are required for alignment with
policy, Determine necessary policy and legislative modifications, revisions or
additions to support recommendations, Recommend on appropriate treasury
structures and controls and monitor SOEs for compliance to the Best Practice
Guidelines for Treasury Management in line with the Treasury Regulations,
Ensure that SOEs operate in line with best practices standards, governance
structures and risk management processes to eliminate inappropriate Treasury
activities and outcomes.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
POST 39/59 : ECONOMIST: FORECASTING REF NO: S068/2025
Division: Economic Policy and International Cooperation Division (EPIC)
Purpose: To assist with the provision of quarterly forecasts of the South African
economy over the MTEF period and maintain the National Treasury Quarterly
Model (QMOD) for sound policy analysis and advice to stakeholders.
SALARY : R582 444 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required, coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Economics
or Mathematics or Statistics or Econometrics. A minimum of 3 years’
experience obtained within an economic modelling environment.
DUTIES : Quarterly Forecasts over the MTEF: Assist with the compilation of the
macroeconomic forecast of the South African economy, Draft forecasting
explanatory memoranda to debrief stakeholders on the main aspects of the
economic projection, assist in providing different simulations on forecasts on
economic growth and tax related models based on the revenue expectations
for a specific financial year. Maintain Economic Models: Assist with the
updating of economic models, Assist with the development of new models in
alignment with policy and related needs, Consult stakeholders on new
initiatives on the maintenance of models. Policy Analysis and Development:
Provide theoretically sound and well researched reports and memos that link
model outcomes to specific policy questions, Develop presentations and
engage stakeholders, Inform internal and external stakeholders on new
developments impacting the economic modelling world and illustrate their
usage. Stakeholder Engagement and Research: Engage clients on new
developments pertaining to projection tools and their impact on the SA
economy, Initiate research and engage with international recognised
institutions on latest trends pertaining to model development.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
POST 39/60 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INVESTMENT ANALYSIS REF NO: S065/2025
Division: Asset and Liability Management Division (ALM)
Purpose: To assist the National Treasury in the monitoring and evaluation of
financial performances of SOCs and commend on appropriate responses for
implementation
SALARY : R582 444 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required, coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Finance or
Accounting or Financial Economics. A minimum of 3 years’ experience
obtained in a corporate, financial investment or banking environment. Ability to
assess and make recommendations on the benefits and risks of financial
transactions. Knowledge and experience of analysing financial statements and
business cases.
DUTIES : Promote allocation and utilisation of financial resources: Analyse SOCs/WBs
Corporate plans and Annual Reports, Prepare a dashboard summary of
49
corporate plan and annual report findings, Provide recommendations on the
financial analysis and findings, Analyse tariff submission by Water boards
(WBs) and prepare letters on tariff determinations. Monitor Infrastructure
spending of SOCs: Collect and disseminate infrastructure figures from
SOCs/WBs, Analyse infrastructure spending trends of SOCs/WBs and compile
a report on findings and recommendations for implementation, Engage
external stakeholders regarding their infrastructure plans and prepare
presentations on spending trends. SOC reforms: Assist with valuation analysis
of SOCs/WBs, Assess entities’ business cases, considering prospects for
privatisation, appropriate funding models and make recommendations, Assist
with the review of developmental mandates and appropriate funding
mechanisms. Corporate Governance in SOCs: Assist with the improvement of
stakeholder relations by escalating relevant info to stakeholders promptly,
Provide financial inputs into section 54 applications and MTEC process,
Provide financial input into the budget review and MTBPS process, where
required, Promote compliance of the PFMA determinations within SOCs, Assist
with the compilation of recommendations on the funding requests of
SOCs/WBs and perform site visits.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday
POST 39/61 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION SECURITY AND COMPLIANCE
REF NO: S072/2025
Division: Corporate Services (CS)
Purpose: To render an effective, efficient record administration within the
National Treasury; assist in managing the central registry/s and provide
administrative support to the PAIA Helpdesk.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or Bachelor’s Degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in the Security
Risk Management or Policing or Public Management or Criminal Justice. A
minimum of 3 years’ experience obtained within the field of security
management and investigations. Knowledge of the Minimum Information
Security Standards (MISS) and other security legislations. A valid driver's
license is required. Knowledge and experience in the analysis of information,
conflict management, interpersonal skills, report writing and good presentation
skills.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate Security Awareness Programmes within the National Treasury:
Initiate the drafting of prescribed security training, awareness and orientation
programmes and procedures for consideration, Develop and maintain security
awareness and orientation programmes for implementation, Monitor the impact
and compliance of these programmes in the Department, Liaise with external
stakeholders such as SAPS and SSA on the prescribed security awareness
implementation plan. Conduct Security Investigations to minimise Breaches in
the Department: Investigate all security breaches that occurred within the
department and proposed corrective actions for implementation, Compile
investigation reports and make recommendation for implementation, Assess
the impact of any breaches and initiate the escalation thereof to the SSA and
SAPS for further investigation, Investigate security breaches and report
incidents or suspected incidents of security breaches or leakages of sensitive
information to SSA. MTBPS and Budget Process: Develop operational plan for
the MTBPS and Budget process, Coordinate internal and external stakeholder
meetings ensuring information leaks before embargo is lifted are eradicated.
Development and review of Governance documents: Develop and Review
Policies and Procedures relating to Information Security, Conduct indepth
research on international security standards and align policies and procedures,
Advice Management regarding amendments/review of such Policies and
Procedures.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday
50
POST 39/62 : REGULARITY AUDITOR REF NO: S074/2025
Division: Office of the Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To assist with the execution of Regularity Audits engagements for NT,
IRBA, ASB and GTAC in accordance with the Audit plan.
SALARY : R397 116 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Internal
Auditing or Accounting. A minimum of 2 years’ experience obtained in internal
audit. Knowledge of Regularity Audit fundamentals and principles. Knowledge
of processes and procedures.
DUTIES : Assist with project planning: Maintain record of engagements with clients,
Collate the relevant data for future utilisation. Transactional Document
Information and flow: Assist with financial and management information flows,
in compliance with internal audit policies and procedures, Assist in the
identification and planning of auditable processes within the National Treasury,
Assist with recordkeeping of information for future utilisation. Identify Risk and
Controls and Initiate Audit Testing: Assist in the analyses of risk mitigated
processes, Assist with the identification of controls in the system and advise on
corrective measures, Provide a preliminary evaluation of the plan of execution,
Assist in preparing and updating the risk register, Perform audit test as outlined
within the risk register, Keep record of test results for future reference and
application. Evaluate testing results, develop effective control environment and
assist with the preparation of draft report: Verify working papers for correctness
in accordance with auditing standards and methodology, Assist in preparing
recommendations for the improvement of processes and procedures, Assist
with the compilation of a draft report on recommendations for implementation,
Assist follow-up on outstanding audits. Knowledge Management: Maintain and
update manuals and electronic filing in compliance with NTs policies and
procedures.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
POST 39/63 : TRANSVERSAL CONTRACTING SUPPORT OFFICER REF NO: S076/2025
(X2 POSTS)
Division: Office of the Procurement Officer (OCPO)
Purpose: To prepare, capture and numbering of all tender documents for
publication on the system and handle all documents with utmost discretion.
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required, post school qualification in Supply Chain Management
or Logistics or Business or Management or Financial Management would be
an added advantage. A minimum of 2 years' experience obtained in a Supply
Chain Management or Financial Management environment. Knowledge of
PFMA, Treasury Regulations, SCM Policies and prescripts.
DUTIES : Tender Support: Ensure that all tender documents are numbered, Manage
tender closing process of the National Treasury in accordance to strict time
frame, Retrieve electronic bids from E-Tender Portal, Preparing the address list
for the tender documents; Ensure the timeous advertising of bids received on
E-Tender, Assist with arranging and attending of the Bid Specification
Committee and Bid Evaluation Committee meeting, Advice public and
prospective bidders on the tender related queries; and, Attend to the tender
box on closing date of the tender, were necessary. Administration: Receive,
record and distribute all incoming and outgoing documents, Arrange meetings
and make sure that deadline for documents submission is met, Assist with
enquiry management of the office, Handle confidential documents/issues with
outmost discretion, revert to clients regarding general bid and contract queries,
File and manage the paperwork of the unit.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
51
POST 39/64 : RECORDS CLERK: INFORMATION AND MANAGEMENT REF NO:
S067/2025 (X2 POSTS)
Division: Corporate Services (CS)
Purpose: To update and maintain the records management systems of all
records and file movements and handle information with the utmost discretion.
SALARY : R228 321 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a certification in Office Administration. A
minimum of 1 year experience obtained in an office administration or related
environment. Knowledge and experience in the utilisation of MS Office. Ability
and willingness to perform physical duties.
DUTIES : Provide Registry Services to sub-registries: Open new files and volumes as
required, Retrieve files and book them out to clients, Receive booked out files,
book files in (update the records database) and return to the records stores
and Conduct clean up in the operational areas to ensure all files are returned
to the registry. Provide Bulk Scanning and Indexing Services to all divisions:
Update the file scanning register, Prepare files before and after Scanning;
Conduct scanning of files, Convert the files into text searchable portable
document format, Upload files into the Electronic Document Management
System, Index files according to the prescribed minimum metadata
requirements. Disposal of files: Liaise with the Records Manager to determine
files due for disposal, Draw out a list of files due for disposal; and Upon
approval, move the files to the disposal area; Control access to Records
Stores: Ensure storeroom keys are kept safe, Oversee the cleaning of all
records storage areas; Supervise pest control services; Control access to the
records stores.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
52
ANNEXURE L
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office (Midrand)/ Constitutional Court: Braamfontein/ Quoting
the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The Director: Human
Resources, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107
or hand deliver applications to the Office of the Chief Justice, Human Resource
Management, 188, 14th Road, Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685
Gauteng/Land Court Randburg/Johannesburg/Pretoria: Quoting the
relevant reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head,
Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X7, Johannesburg, 2000. Applications
can also be hand delivered to the 12th floor, Cnr Pritchard and Kruis Street,
Johannesburg
Limpopo/ Polokwane/ Thohoyandou: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice
Service Centre, Limpopo, Private Bag X9693, Polokwane, 0700. Applications
can also be hand delivered to the High Court of South Africa: Limpopo Division,
Polokwane, 36 Biccard & Bodenstein Street, Polokwane, 0699
North West/ Mmabatho: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The OCJ Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private
Bag X 2033, Mmabatho, 2735. Applications can also be hand delivered to 22
Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mmabatho.
KwaZulu-Natal/ Durban/Pietermaritzburg: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief
Justice, Private Bag X54314, Durban, 4001. Applications can also be hand
delivered to 1st Floor Office No 118, CNR Somtseu8 & Stalwart Simelane
Streets, Durban, 4000.
Mpumalanga/ Middelburg/Mbombela: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head: Office of the Chief
Justice, Private Bag X20051, Mbombela, 1211. Applications can also be hand
delivered to, Mpumalanga Division of the High Court, Office of the Chief Justice
Provincial Service Centre, 311 Samora Machel Drive, Mbombela, 1200.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. Each application form must
be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both pages by the applicant.
The application must indicate the correct job title, the office where the position
is advertised and the reference number as stated in the advert. Failure by the
applicant to fully complete, sign and initial the application form will lead to
disqualification of the application during the selection process. Applications on
the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you be in a possession
of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate
from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Dual citizenship holders
must provide the Police Clearance certificate from the country of origin (when
shortlisted all non - SA Citizens will be required to submit a copy of proof of
South African permanent residence). Applications that do not comply with the
above-mentioned requirements will not be considered. Suitable candidates will
be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, financial checks,
qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference checks and employment
verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of
53
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will
be expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo
a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The Office the Chief
Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided
to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose
of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application
was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal
information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your application
null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the security and
confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment process
OTHER POSTS
POST 39/65 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT REF NO:
2025/259/OCJ
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package. The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification with 360 credits as recognized by SAQA in Financial
Management / Supply Chain Management / Purchasing / Logistics / Finance /
Accounting / Economics / Internal Audit or equivalent as recognized by SAQA.
Bachelor’s degree (NQF level 7) qualification in Financial Management /
Supply Chain Management / Purchasing / Logistics / Finance / Accounting /
Economics / Internal Audit, would be advantageous. Five (5) years’ experience
within Supply Chain Management field of which three (3) years must be at
supervisory level (ASD level). Valid driver’s license (with exception of people
with disability). skills and knowledge: Sound and in-debt knowledge of relevant
prescripts. Application of human resources as well as understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service such as: Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), SCM policies and procedures, Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA), Preferential Procurement
Regulations, Treasury Regulations (TR), Promotion of Access of Information
Act, The Constitution of the Republic of South Africa. People management
skills. Time management skills. Communication skills (verbal & written).
Conflict management and negotiation skills. Report writing skills. Planning and
organizing skills. Problem solving skills. Policy analysing and interpretation
skills. Computer literacy. Good governance and Batho Pele Principles. Team
leadership skills.
DUTIES : Manage, design and develop acquisition management policies, processes and
procedures. Compile operational/supply chain acquisition management plan
and obtain approval. Manage the execution of the acquisition management
plan. Monitor and review the acquisition management activities. Manage the
process of collating procurement requirements for the units. Manage the
compilation of a Demand and procurement plan for the Units. Oversee,
coordinate, and advise on the process of drafting specifications/terms of
reference and special condition of contract. Manage and control the acquisition
function in relation to goods and services, infrastructure demand and ICT
demand in the department. Oversee the utilization of the Central supplier
Database in the bid/quotation processes. Control and oversee a compliant
execution of the bid/quotation processes. Ensure that integrity of all
procurement functions is maintained. Manage contracts by ensuring supplier
compliance and performance is monitored, managed and reported for
corrective measures. Manage logistical support services. Manage the
procurement of assets, supplies and services. Manage the vehicle fleet.
Manage transport and travelling services. Establish and manage service level
agreements with service providers. Maintenance of discipline. Management of
performance and development. Undertake Human Resource and other related
54
administrative function. Establish implementation and maintain efficient and
effective communication arrangement. Develop and manage the operation
plan of the sub-directorate and report on progress as required. Develop,
implement and maintain processes to ensure proper control of work. Compile
and submit all required administrative reports. Service on transverse task
teams as required. Procurement and asset management for the sub
directorate. Plan and allocate work. Quality control of work delivered by
employees. Manage and facilitate resources (financial, human and physical) in
accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Enquiries: Mr M Ngonyama Tel No: (010) 493 2500
HR Related Enquiries: Ms S Tshidino Tel No: (010) 493 8771
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/259/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals
POST 39/66 : SENIOR LAW RESEARCHER REF NO: 2025/277/OCJ
SALARY : R582 444 - R686 091 per annum (Level 10). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate, and an LLB degree at (NQF level 8) or four (4) year legal
qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience
as a Law Researcher. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of Electronic
Information Resources and the ability to access and utilize computer research
programmes (Westlaw, LexisNexis, and Jutastat): General Legal Knowledge,
Knowledge of operating DCRS/CRT machine, Employment Equity Act,
Practice Manual of the Court, Sound understanding of South African law and
judicial system, Interpretation and application of the law, Batho Pele Principles,
Computer literacy skills (MS office), Excellent research skills, Report Writing
and editing skills, Excellent communication skills (written and Verbal), Problem
analysis and solving skills, Planning and organising skills, Decision-making
skills, Time management skills, Creative and analytical skills, Ability to meet
deadlines, Critical thinker, Strict adherence to high ethical standards, Attention
to detail, Flexibility, Time bound, Self-driven, Assertiveness, Creative,
innovative and Accuracy.
DUTIES : Provide legal research: Consult with the judiciary in chambers and take
instructions, peruse all the material lodged, identify the issue and initiate
appropriate research, provide analytical summary of counsels’ arguments or
written evidence in the court record, Delegate instructions to the researchers,
conduct research on electronic databases as per the Judges’ request, ensure
that all research provided to Judges is comprehensive and accurate. Ensure
that draft judgments, articles, and speeches are clear, consistent and
comprehensive: Ensure there are no stylistic, syntactical or grammatical errors,
Ensure Judgments conform to the accepted writing Style Guide of each Court,
Ensure preparation of a comprehensive memorandum on the outcome of the
research, Ensure all judgments, articles, speeches and conference papers with
respect to spelling and grammar, Double-check all references and footnotes in
all judgments and legal articles against the original text to ensure correctness.
Assist the Judges with other extra-judicial tasks: Draft speeches, conference
papers and legal articles, Ensure that all speeches, conference papers and
articles are thoroughly researched, are accurate and of the highest quality,
Ensure secretariat functions including Provincial Efficiency Enhancement
Committee (PEEC) meetings are being effectively performed, Ensure the
judiciary of the Division is up to date on recent developments in case law,
practice directives and legislation, Keep abreast of all the landmark judgments
/ recent developments in the law, changes in legislation and regulations,
Ensure researchers attend to publisher related queries (e.g. Juta, Lexis and
Saflii) Supervise and develop staff : Ensure general supervision of employees,
Allocate duties and perform quality control on the work delivered by officials,
Manage leave of staff, Advise and lead supervisees with regard to all aspects
of the work, Manage performance, conduct and discipline of employees,
Ensure that all employees are trained and developed to be able to deliver work
of the required standard efficiently and effectively, Develop, implement and
monitor work systems and processes to ensure efficient and effective
functioning and Address enquiries and provide advice and guidance on asset
allocation and control.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms R Bramdaw Tel No: (010) 494 8486
55
HR enquiries: Ms. T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/277/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 39/67 : LAW RESEARCHER REF NO: 2025/278/OCJ
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance.
CENTRE : North West Division of The High Court: Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate and an LLB degree or a four-year recognized legal
qualification. A minimum of three (3) years legal research experience. Sound
knowledge of domestic and international legal databases. A valid driver’s
license. Exposure in the SCA court environment will be an added advantage.
LLM will be an added advantage Skills and Competencies: Excellent research
and analytical skills; Report writing and editing skills; Excellent communication
skills (written and verbal); Understanding of the Constitution and relevant
legislation; Computer literacy (MS Word, Outlook and Internet); Ability to
access and utilize computer research programmes (Westlaw, LexisNexis,
Jutastat); Planning and organizing; Ability to integrate knowledge from diverse
sources; Accuracy and attention to detail; Interpersonal skills; Problems solving
skills; Ability to work under pressure; Ability to work independently. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements
DUTIES : Perform all legal duties for the judges to enable them to prepare judgments.
Research and retrieve all material from all sources in both hard copy and
electronic format on legal issues, as requested by judges. Read all the relevant
material and analyse it thoroughly. Discuss all possible variations on a legal
point with colleagues and/or the judge. Prepare a comprehensive
memorandum on the outcome of the research. Proofread all judgments,
articles, speeches and conference papers. Verify all references and footnotes
in all judgments and legal articles against the original text for correctness.
Correct documents with the help of track changes to allow for the
acceptance/rejection of the proposed changes. Drafting speeches, conference
notes and legal articles. Monitoring and bringing to the attention of judges of
the court recent developments in case law and jurisprudence. Provide support
to court personnel with research related queries as assigned.
ENQUIRIES : Technical/HR enquiries; Mr O Sebapatso Tel No: (018) 397 7064
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/278/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
departmental employment equity goals.
POST 39/68 : LAW RESEARCHER REF NO: 2025/268/OCJ
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance.
CENTRE : Labour and Labour Appeals Court: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Matric Certificate and an LLB degree at NQF level 8 or four (4) year recognized
legal qualification. A minimum of two (2) years’ in the relevant legal experience.
A minimum of three (3) years legal research experience will be an added
advantage. Basic Conditions of Employment Act and related labour laws &
Departmental policies, Knowledge of the Labour Relations Act 66 of 1995,
Labour and Labour Appeal Court Rules and Practice Manual, Employment
Equity Act, Practice Manual of the Court, Sound understanding of South African
law and judicial system, Interpretation and application of the law, Batho Pele
Principles. Communication skills (verbal and written), Problem solving and
decision-making skills, Excellent research and analytical skills, Report writing
and editing skills, Problem solving skills, Financial management skills,
Strategic skills, Analytical skills, Presentation skills, Planning and organizing
skills, Computer literacy, (Word, PowerPoint & Excel,). Applied Strategic
Thinking, Budgeting and Financial Management, Communication and
Information Management, Customer Focus and Responsiveness, Developing
Others, Diversity Management, Impact and Influence, Managing Interpersonal
Conflict and Resolving Problems, Networking and Building Bonds, Planning
and Organizing, Problem Solving and Decision Making, Project Management
and Team Leadership.
56
DUTIES : Provide support to legal research functions for the Judges and other Court
officials: Provide support with legal research on various legal issues, statutes,
rules, regulations, and case law, Analyse and apply complex legal principles
and provide summaries to the judges, Provide research support to judges in
the preparation of hearings and trials, Carry out research and retrieve all
material from all sources in both hard copy and electronic formats on legal
issues, as requested by a Judge, Provide analysis through studying all the
relevant material, Study all the relevant material and provide a thorough
analysis thereof. Prepare and compile legal opinions: Provide support to the
judges with legal arguments analysis submitted by litigants, evaluate merits of
each argument, Research supporting and opposing case law (precedent) and
provide recommendations to the judges, review legal issues, arguments, and
relevant case law in the form of legal memos, Prepare a comprehensive
memorandum on the outcome of the legal research. Provide support with
drafting of clear, consistent and comprehensive judgments: Provide support to
judges in reviewing and proofreading draft judgment(s) to ensure clarity and
accuracy, Proofread all judgments, articles, speeches and conference papers
with respect to spelling and grammar, Quality assure all references and
footnotes in all judgments and legal articles against the original text to ensure
correctness and accuracy, Correct mistakes (typos) with the help of track
changes so that judges can accept or decline any proposed changes. Ensure
that Judges are up to date on recent developments in case law, practice
directives and legislation: Quality assure the maintenance of knowledge of
recent legal developments, new legislation, and relevant case law, provide
support to the monitoring of legal journals, ensure that judges have access to
the latest legal information, Keep up breast with recent developments in
relevant areas of law, such as legislative changes, new precedents, and
emerging legal trends
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms T Nzimande Tel No: (010) 494 9238
HR Related Enquiries; Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/268/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
departmental employment equity goals.
POST 39/69 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: 2025/261/OCJ
SALARY : R397 116 – R467 790 per annum (Level 08). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Land Court: Randburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and three (3) year National Diploma in Public
Administration / Administrative Management / Public Management/ equivalent
qualification at (NQF level 6) with 360 credits as recognized by SAQA. A
minimum of two (2) years’ experience in administration field and valid driver’s
license. Knowledge of Risk Management, Security, Facility and OHS will serve
as added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry
practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Provide support to the senior managers with daily clerical tasks. Keep up
breast with the leave administration for the office. Provide support with the
compilation of monthly, quarterly reports and annual corporate calendar.
Prepare meeting agenda and attendance register Collate monthly and
quarterly reports. Monitor meetings attendance by Governance Committees
members. Respond to the queries of stakeholders. Ensure general supervision
of employees. Allocate duties and perform quality control on the work delivered
by officials. Manage leave of staff. Advise and lead supervisees with regard to
all aspects of the work. Manage performance, conduct and discipline of
employees. Ensure that all employees are trained and developed to be able to
deliver work of the required standard efficiently and effectively. Develop,
implement and monitor work systems and processes to ensure efficient and
effective functioning. Formulate administration policies. Review office policies
and procedures Update existing protocols and office policies. Communication
skills (verbal & written), Problem solving skills, Good public relations skills, 29
Monitoring and analytical skills. Computer Literacy skills (MS Teams), Planning
and organizing skills, Report writing skills and Typing skills. Knowledge of
Understanding and experience of logistical arrangements required for the
effective functioning of governance structures, Knowledge of clerical duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting
57
statistics. Knowledge of the MS Office package, with experience in word
processing, Outlook, Power Point and Excel Knowledge of Office
Administration. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing Public Service and knowledge of Batho Pele principles. Manage and
Monitor financial system i.e. JYP, JDAS, BAS etc. Ensure compliance with the
PFMA and Financial standard. Verify S&T claims and Trip Authority for
correctness before submission for approval.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms N Mhlambi Tel No: (010) 493 6316 HR enquiries: Ms T
Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/261/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 39/70 : PRINCIPAL LIBRARIAN REF NO: 2025/262/OCJ
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement
CENTRE : Constitutional Court: Braamfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate and a three (3) year National Diploma/Degree in library
and information science/studies qualification or equivalent at NQF level 6 with
360 credits as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 2 years’ experience in
Library and Information Systems. A post graduate qualification in library and
information science/studies and a legal environment experience will be added
advantage. Knowledge of and experience legal library environment as well as
comparative research and international legal matters. in South African as well
as comparative and international legal matters. Computer Literacy (MS Office,
Power point, Outlook, Word, excel & Internet). Report writing skills, Research
and planning skills. Excellent communication skills (written and verbal).
Interpersonal Relations. Knowledge of Library OPAC systems.
DUTIES : Develop the catalogue in line with the international library standards; Download
the best bibliographic records from Smartport and OCLC. Ensure the
distribution of catalogued materials; Ensure materials are easily retrieved from
shelves. Administer the classification of the library collection. Coordinate and
maintain collections relating to previous editions and non-book materials;
Identify and remove reference works and serial publications from the general
book collection. Ensure that catalogued materials are relevant to library users’
needs. Update and administer previous editions. Coordinate assets
management within the Constitutional Court library. Conduct asset verification
and stocktaking of the library materials. Bar code and ad records to library
management system and entries in the library asset register. Remove outdated
books from shelves. Update the library system and asset register with the
written off previous materials. Ensure the implementation of disposal of books.
Attend to queries relating to unverified library materials. Supervise and develop
staff; Ensure general supervision of employees; Allocate duties and perform
quality control on the work delivered by officials. Manage leave of staff. Advise
and lead supervisees regarding all aspects of the work; manage performance,
conduct and discipline of employees. Ensure that all employees are trained
and developed to be able to deliver work of the required standard efficiently
and effectively. Attend to enquires and provide advice and guidance on asset
allocation and control; Develop, implement and monitor work systems and
processes to ensure efficient and effective functioning.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquires: Mr A Mdletshe Tel No: (011) 359 7400/7472
HR related enquiries: Ms K Mokgatlhe Tel No: (011) 359 7400/ 7574
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/262/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 39/71 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2025/263/OCJ
(12 months non-renewable contract)
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07), plus 37% in lieu of benefits. The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Limpopo Division of The High Court: Thohoyandou
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate. A minimum of 20 modules completed towards an LLB or
Bachelor of Law Degree (results must accompany the application). A minimum
of one (1) year secretarial experience in a superior court environment. A valid
driver’s license. An LLB Degree will serve as an added advantage. Shortlisted
58
candidates will be required to pass a typing test. Skills and Competencies:
Proficiency in English. Good communication skills (verbal and written).
Administration and organizational skills. Exceptional interpersonal skills. Ability
to meet strict deadlines and to work under pressure. Attention to detail.
Customer care service skills and excellent typing skills. Confidentiality and time
management. Computer literacy (MS Office) and research capabilities. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : To ensure attendance and screening of all incoming and outgoing calls. To
ensure that the appointments and meetings of the judge are diarized. To ensure
that the judgments are typed and correspondences are filed accordingly in the
right sections. To ensure that signed judgments and orders handed down in
court or virtually are sent to the typist and the library (judgment only). To ensure
that all visitors are received, screened and their queries are attended to. To
ensure that all incoming and outgoing documents are recorded and filed. To
ensure that stationery for the judge is ordered and collected. To ensure that the
court files are ready and the judge has all documents in the file on time as per
duty roster. To ensure that all files received from various section(s) are verified
by the Registrar of that section. To ensure that the reviews register is up to date
and signed on receipt and return of reviews to the Review Clerk. To ensure that
the register/template of the reserved judgment is updated notifying the
Statistics Officer as well as the office of the President when judgment has been
handed down. To ensure that the transcribed judgments from transcribers
reach the judges for approval and signature. To ensure that the Heads of
Arguments from various stakeholders are received, filed and verified. Informing
parties involved via e-mail and or telephonically of time and date when
reserved judgments will be handed down, further notifying them of how the
judgment will be handed down. To ensure that the bench book of the judge is
prepared and files are in court before the court starts or before the judge enters
the court. To ensure that all cases are called and recorded as per court roll.
Calling the case number and the parties’ names on record before judge can
allow parties to start with their matters. To ensure that the correct oath, ID or
declaration is administered in court, when required. To ensure that the exhibits
are handled, controlled and noted professionally and captured accordingly. To
ensure that the correct order is endorsed on the file and or on Caselines after
it was granted by the judge in court. To ensure that all travel and
accommodation arrangements are in order and made on time. To ensure that
the judge’s logbook is submitted on or before the 5th of every month to the
Transport Officer. To ensure that the car is booked for either maintenance 82
and/or service. To remind the judge of the invoices so that the submission of
the S&T claims can be processed. To ensure the submissions of cell phone
and data claims for process purposes. To ensure that court roll(s) is submitted
to the Statistical Officer. Adhere to prescripts, policies, procedures and
guidelines.
ENQUIRIES : Technical/HR related enquiries: Ms. R.F Mathobela Tel No: (015) 495 1758
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/263/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the employment
equity goals.
POST 39/72 : JUDGES SECRETARY REF NO: 2025/264/OCJ
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : KZN Division of The High Court: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate, a minimum of 20 modules completed towards an LLB, BA
or Bachelor Law Degree. A minimum of two (2) secretarial experience a valid
driver’s license, an LLB Degree, Bachelor Law Degree will serve as an added
advantage and results must accompany the application, shortlisted candidates
will be required to pass a typing test. Skills and Competencies: Proficiency in
English. Good communication skills (verbal and written). Administration and
organizational skills. Exceptional interpersonal skills, ability to meet strict
deadlines and to work under pressure, attention to details, customer care
service skills and excellent typing skills, confidentiality and time management.
Computer literacy (MS Word) and research capabilities All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
59
assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's
technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Provide general secretarial/administrative duties to the Judge. Typing (or
format) of draft memorandum decision, opinions or judgement entries written
by or assigned by Judge. Provide general secretarial/administrative duties to
the Judge. Manage and type correspondence, judgements and orders for the
Judge (including Dictaphone typing). Arrange and diarize appointments,
meetings and official visits and make travel and accommodation arrangements.
Safeguarding of all case files and the endorsement of case files with an order
made by Judge. Update files and documents and provide copies of documents
to the Registrar. Perform digital recording of court proceedings on urgent court
cases after hours or on circuit court and ensure integrity of such recordings.
Store, keep and file court records safely. Accompany the Judge to the court.
Compile court statistics daily. Management of Judge’s vehicle, logbook and
driving thereof. Compile data and prepare reports and documents for assigned
Judges as necessary; including expense reports, continuing legal hours,
financial disclosure statements and case management. Arrange refreshments
for the Judge and his or her visitors and attend to their needs. Management of
Judge’s library and updating of documentation. Execute legal research as
directed by the Judge and comply with departmental prescripts, policies,
procedures and guidelines.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms K Marais Tel No: (031) 492 5562
HR Enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493 1723
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/264/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the employment
equity goals.
POST 39/73 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2025/269/OCJ
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal Division of The High Court: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12, LLB degree or a minimum of 20 modules completed towards an
LLB, BA/BCOM Law degree. A minimum of two years secretarial experience.
Shortlisted candidates will be required to pass a typing test. A valid driver’s
license. Skills and Competencies: Communication skills (verbal and written),
Administration skills, Planning and Organizational skills, Exceptional
Interpersonal skills, Customer service skills, Excellent Typing skills including
Dictaphone typing, Time Management skills, Proficiency in Microsoft Office
Programs, Research capabilities, Problem solving, Good Judgment and
Decision-Making skills, Proficiency in English, Display maturity, Assertiveness
and Confidence to interact at all Levels, Maintain Positive attitude, Good
Interpersonal Relations with ability to Take charge, Able to work under pressure
, Ability to multitask , Ability to take charge, Flexible, Patience and kindness,
Professionalism, Maintain a positive attitude. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements.
DUTIES : Provide Secretarial support to the Judiciary: Diarize the appointments and
meetings of the Judge, type and file the judgments, ensure the Judgments that
are handed down (delivered), signed draft orders granted in court or virtually
are sent to the Typist for scanning, upload unto Case-lines/Court-Online and
the Library, ensure that all visitors are received, screened and their queries are
attended to, record all incoming and outgoing documents, order and collect
stationery for the Judge. Provide support functions to Civil, Criminal and review
matters/courts and case allocations in chambers: Collect the files before the
commencement of a criminal matter from the Registrar’s office at the Criminal
section, keep update the register of reviews and sign on receipt to return the
reviews to the Clerk, ensure that the register/template of the reserved
judgement is updated and notify the Statistics Officer and the office of the
Judge President when judgment has been handed down, ensure that the
transcribed judgements from transcribers reach the Judges for approval and
signature, prepare court rolls for Opposed Motion and Urgent Court and
distribute to stakeholders, ensure that the Heads of Arguments from various
stakeholders are available to the Judge as per the filing that was done. Provide
support functions to civil / criminal courts: Ensure that the bench book of the
Judge is prepared and files are taken by Ushers to Court before the
60
commencement of the proceedings, ensure that all stakeholders involved are
present in court before commencement of proceedings, ensure that all cases
are called on record as per the court roll by means of calling the case number
and the parties’ names, before a Judge can allow parties to start with their
matters, administer the correct Oath ID or declaration in court, when required,
ensure that in the Criminal Court exhibits are handled, controlled and noted
professionally. Provide general administrative support to the Judiciary: ensure
that all the travel, accommodation arrangements are in order and attend to sign
the documents for approval, ensure that the Judge’s logbook is submitted on
or before the 5th of every month to the Transport Officer, Ensure that the car is
booked for either maintenance and service, receive the pre-authorisation for
the Judge’s vehicle, remind Judge of the invoices so that the submission of the
S&T claims can be processed, Ensure the submissions of Cell phone and 3G
data claims for process purposes, ensure that all updates on the loose leafs in
the Judges library are attended to (in dispute)
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Mr MN Zondi Tel No: (033) 345 8211
HR enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493 1723
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/269/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 39/74 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2025/270/OCJ
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Constitutional Court: Braamfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. Driver’s Licence. An LLB degree or a minimum of 20 modules
completed towards an LLB, BA (Law), BCom Law degree, Knowledge of Court
Online system, and a minimum of one-year secretarial experience will serve as
an added advantage. Shortlisted candidates will be required to pass a typing
test. Skills and Competencies: Communication skills (verbal and written),
Administration skills, Planning and Organisational skills, Exceptional
Interpersonal skills, Customer service skills, Excellent Typing skills including
Dictaphone typing, Time Management skills, Proficiency in Microsoft Office
Programs, Research capabilities, Problem solving, Good Judgment and
Decision-Making skills, Proficiency in English, Display maturity, Assertiveness
and Confidence to interact at all Levels, Maintain Positive attitude, Good
Interpersonal Relations with ability to Take charge, Able to work under
pressure, Ability to multitask, Ability to take charge, Flexible, Patience and
kindness, Professionalism, Maintain a positive attitude.
DUTIES : Provide general secretarial/administration duties to the DCJ. Typing (or
Formatting) of draft memorandum decisions, opinions or judgments entries
written by or assigned by the DCJ. Manage and type correspondence, draft
directions, and judgments for the DCJ. Arrange and Diarise appointments,
meetings and official visits and make travel and accommodation arrangements.
Update files and chamber documents and provide such copies of documents
as is necessary, to the Registrar. Store, keep and file court records safely.
Manage the DCJ’s vehicle logbook. Compile data, statistical reports, and
documents for the DCJ and Registry section as and when this is required.
Manage expense reports, financial disclosure statements, and case
management reports.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms. Z Sondlo Tel No: (011) 359 7458
HR enquiries: Ms. K Mokgatlhe Tel No: (011) 359 7575
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/270/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 39/75 : REGISTRAR REF NO: 2025/271/OCJ
SALARY : R324 579 - R1 111 323 per annum (MR3-MR5). Salary will be in accordance
with the Occupation Specific Dispensation (Resolution 1 of 2008). Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit a Service Certificate/s for determination
of their experience. The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an LLB degree or four (4) year legal qualification at (NQF level 7)
and A minimum of two (2) years’ legal experience obtained after qualification.
61
Superior Court or litigation experience will be added advantage and a Valid
code B or code EB driver license. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of
registry duties, Knowledge of Case Flow Management, legislative framework
governing the public service, storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the
working environment, Batho Pele Principles, excellent communication skills
(verbal and written), computer literacy, numerical skills, planning, organizing
skills, problem solving and decision-making skills, interpersonal skills, conflict
management skills, time management skills, decision making skills, analytical
skills, honesty and integrity, resilience, attention to detail, flexibility, strong work
ethics, professionalism, time bound, meticulous, honesty/Trustworthy and
Observance of confidentiality.
DUTIES : Process default judgments to enhance efficiency of the court in handling of
quasi- judicial functions: Determine whether pleadings/ processes comply with
the court rules, consider applications for default judgment (Rule 31[5]) – by
applying Court rules and regulations, case law, discretion and knowledge,
capture accurate outcome of discretion applied on the file cover, ensure
circulation of the outcome to the relevant litigating party, capture and update
accurate Default applications register and data tool registered in the Office
daily, verify data and submit reporting tool on percentage of default judgments
granted by Registrars to the Statistician. execute taxations to enhance
efficiency of the court in handling of quasi-judicial functions: Determine whether
pleadings/ processes comply with the court rules, tax bills of cost - by hearing
arguments from the parties and apply discretion and knowledge to the
reasonable litigation costs. Process and finalize Opposed and Unopposed
Taxations in accordance with SOP, deal with and finalize taxation reviews (Rule
48) through the drafting of stated cases, replies, and submission to the
Judiciary, finalize taxation reviews (Rule 48) through the drafting of stated
cases, replies, and submission to the Judiciary, capture and update accurate
Bills of costs registered and data tools in the Office, submit reporting Tool on
Taxations to the Statistician, verify data and submit reporting taxations dealt
with by Registrars to the Statistician. Manage criminal/civil process to enhance
efficiency of the court: Analyse statistical data to assess trends and devise
strategies to address identified risk factors, resolve Presidential Hotline queries
and chapter 9 institution enquiries, co-ordinate and report on the provision of
support staff in Court Rooms and Registrars supporting offices, manage the
collation of performance information/ data/ Statistics for purpose of reporting
as per Reporting Tools, Maintain and update manual registers for Audit of
reported Performance information. Supervise and develop staff: Ensure
general supervision of employees, allocate duties and perform quality control
on the work delivered by officials, manage leave of staff, advise and lead
supervisees with regard to all aspects of the work, manage performance,
conduct and discipline of employees, ensure that all employees are trained and
developed to be able to deliver work of the required standard efficiently and
effectively, develop, implement and monitor work systems and processes to
ensure efficient and effective functioning, address enquiries and provide advice
and guidance on asset allocation and control.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms N Shandu Tel No: (012) 315 7602
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/271/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 39/76 : REGISTRAR REF NO: 2025/265/OCJ
SALARY : R324 579 – R1 111 323 per annum (MR3-MR5). Salary will be in accordance
with the Occupation Specific Dispensation (Resolution 1 of 2008). Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit a Service Certificate/s for determination
of their experience. The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : North West Division of The High Court: Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate and an LLB Degree or a four (4) year legal qualification.
Driver’s license. MR3: LLB Degree or equivalent plus a minimum of 2 years
post qualification experience in legal profession. MR4: LLB Degree or
equivalent plus a minimum of 8 years post qualification experience in legal
profession. MR5: LLB Degree or equivalent plus a minimum of 14 years post
qualification experience in legal profession). Skills and Competencies:
Excellent communication skills (verbal and written), Computer literacy,
62
Numerical skills, Attention to detail, Planning, organizing and decision-making
skills, Customer service orientated, Interpersonal skills, Conflict management,
strong work ethics, professionalism, ability to work under pressure and meeting
of deadlines, result driven, honesty/trustworthy and Observance of
confidentiality. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Co-ordination of Case Flow Management support process to the Judiciary.
Manage the issuing of all processes. Initiating Court proceedings. Co-ordinate
interpreting services, appeals and reviews. Authenticate signatures of Legal
Practitioners, Notaries and Sworn Translators. Supervision and management
of staff. Ensure annotation of relevant publications, codes, acts and rules.
Attend to and execute requests from the Judiciary in connection with cases and
case-related matters. Exercise control over the management and safekeeping
of case records and the record room. Deal with the files in terms of the relevant
codes and legislation. Execute Quasi-judicial indicators such as Taxation of the
Bill of Costs and Warrants of Execution. Collate statistical data for reporting
purposes and prepare court performance reports.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Enquiries: Mr O Sebapatso Tel No: (018) 397 7064
HR Enquiries: Ms K Zwane Tel No: (018) 397 7114
APPLICATIONS : applications can be sent via email at 2025/265/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 39/77 : REGISTRAR’S CLERK REF NO: 2025/272/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance
CENTRE : Mbombela High Court
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, No experience required. Driver’s license will be an added
advantage. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of working procedures in
terms of the working environment, Knowledge of registry processes and
practice, Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working
environment, Knowledge and understanding of legislative frameworks
governing the Public Service, Knowledge of Filling system, Mail procedure
manual, Promotion of access to information Act and National archives, Batho
Pele Principles, Computer Literacy skills (Microsoft Office), Communication
skills, Numeracy, Interpersonal skills, Problem solving and analysis skills, Time
management skills, Administrative skills, ability to work under pressure, self-
motivated, accuracy , ability to work independently, attention to detail,
teamwork and Flexible.
DUTIES : Rendering effective and efficient case flow management support service to the
Court. Attend to all stakeholders’ enquiries and correspondence. Ensure proper
filing and safekeeping of all court records. Proper Administration of all appeal
and petition processes. Ensuring proper receipt, processing administration and
filing of all appeals and applications for Leave to appeal. Provide administrative
support in the Registrar`s office. Prepare, analyse and submit court statistics.
Maintain and keep all registers for civil and criminal matters including the
provisional rolls. Upload and update case information on registrar’s tools, court
online and Caseline. Render efficient and effective support services to the
court. Issue court processes at the General Office including online. Render
case management duties. Attend and oversee to public queries. Filing and
archiving civil processes. Provide any other administrative support in general
as required by the Chief Registrar or Court Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Mr. M Masekoameng Tel No: (013) 758 0000
HR enquiries: Mr. SJ Zwane Tel No: (013) 758 0000
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/272/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 39/78 : REGISTRAR’S CLERK REF NO: 2025/273/OCJ (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate, No experience required. A three-year relevant
qualification (National Diploma at NQF level 6) with 360 credits as recognized
63
by SAQA will be an added advantage. Driver’s license will be an added
advantage. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of working procedures in
terms of the working environment, Knowledge of registry processes and
practice, Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working
environment, Knowledge and understanding of legislative frameworks
governing the Public Service, Knowledge of Filling system, Mail procedure
manual, Promotion of access to information Act and National archives, Batho
Pele Principles, Computer Literacy skills (Microsoft Office), Communication
skills, Numeracy, Interpersonal skills, Problem solving and analysis skills, Time
management skills, Administrative skills, ability to work under pressure, self-
motivated, accuracy, ability to work independently, attention to detail, teamwork
and Flexible.
DUTIES : Perform clerical and administrative work within the Court: Register/ allocate
case numbers to all pleadings and court documents received, ensure that the
files have been served on all parties concerned, draw up files for the
litigants/Attorney, Update the file of return service/s proof services and Safe-
keep and dispose of case records. Handle court’s request files: Retrieve the
requested file and make the file available to the requester, attend to queries
from parties and members of the public, record documents received, ensure
systematically recording of court files, keep record of requests received from
litigants. Render case management duties: Attend to case management and
set down notice, implement case management practices (placing request
forms in the space of a file that has been requested, complete and file the
movement sheet), monitor files and records as per the case Management.
Provide support with administrative registrar: Submit leave forms to HR for
compliance, maintain and keep all registers for filing and archiving, comply with
the telephone prescripts and leave policies, prepare and sign performance
agreement timeously.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms N Shandu Tel No: (012) 315 7602
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/273/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 39/79 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (CRT) REF NO: 2025/274/OCJ
(12 months non-renewable Contract)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05), plus 37% in lieu of benefits. The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance.
CENTRE : Limpopo Division of The High Court: Thohoyandou
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 certificate. No experience required. A valid driver’s license will be
an added advantage. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of the digital
recording process e.g. system tests, recording equipment is properly
functional, fault reports, Knowledge of court proceeding, digital filing system,
manual filing system, Technical Skills, Communication skills, Interpersonal
relations , Typing, Computer literacy (MS Office), Problems solving skills,
Administration skills, Ability to work independently, Ability to work under
pressure, Team participation, Understanding of confidentiality in Government,
Flexible and Attention to detail. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-
entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support in pre-recording of court proceedings: Check
the readiness of the court prior the court proceedings, Test the CRT machine
(Circuit court and local court) and reports all faults detected on the machine,
capture cases set down on the CRT machine and the court book/J406, Pre-
schedule the cases prior to commencement of the court proceedings. Proper
recording of court proceedings: Record court proceedings as per the level of
court, Add parties’ details per court appearance and add related annotations
for the case type in session, Pause and resume the recorder during court
session breaks, and stop at the end of the day, Set up and operate the
equipment for testifying in the Children’s court, Annotate all the postponed
cases, Conduct regular backups of data and transfer court recordings at the
end of the week, Utilise the headphones to monitor accurate recording of the
court proceedings. Perform playback events during or after the session: Attend
to request for playback to verify court orders and download to CD/USB,
Retrieve and download cases on request, Playback the court recoding to detect
any discrepancies on the recordings, Inform the Judge immediately when
64
discrepancies are detected. Attend to general administrative functions for court
administration: File and check audio CD’s in the strong room/Court Recording
Technology office, submit work performed at the circuit court immediately upon
arrival, Update backups of audio CD’s, Download CD’s for transcription for the
running record, attend to queries relating to court recordings and arrange own
travelling to circuit courts in advance.
ENQUIRIES : HR Enquiries: Ms RF Mathobela/ Ms EM Ramaphakela Tel No: (015) 498
1758/1744
Technical enquiries: Mr. BM Tjiane Tel No: (015) 495 1447
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/274/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 39/80 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK REF NO: 2025/275/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance
CENTRE : Land Court: Randburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, No experience required. A driver’s license will be added as an
advantage. Skills and Competencies: Basic knowledge of financial functions,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collate
financial statistics, Basic knowledge and insight of the Public Service financial,
legislation, procedures and Treasury regulations (PFMA, PSA, DFI),
Knowledge of basic financial operating systems (BAS), Basic knowledge of
work procedures in terms of work environment, Knowledge of legislative
framework governing the public sector, Batho Pele Principles, Communication
skills (verbal & written), Problem solving skills, Good public relations skills,
Monitoring and analytical skills, Computer Literacy skills (MS Teams), Planning
and organizing skills, Report writing skills and Typing skills. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's
technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Capture invoices and creation of Creditor Payment Advises: Verify the invoices
on quantity, price, VAT, item description and supplier details to” address and
the VAT registration number, where applicable, Capture correct information on
JYP which will be defaulted to the Creditor payment advice, Attach all the
relevant prescript documentation to the Creditor Payment Advice, Maintain a
computerised or manual register of all payments processed to track the status
of such invoices, Provide pertinent information on the state of Department’s
creditors to the DCO and Director Finance, Maintain and update the
Procurement Status Report with detail of the relevant transactions. Render
demand and acquisition clerical support, Carryout and Implement preference
points system with appropriate goals per commodity in terms of preferential
procurement policy objectives, provide secretariat or logistical support during
the bid consideration and contracts conclusion process, Check If there is a VAT
number, distribute store items to the end-user in the absence of the responsible
person, Maintain a PCC file with all the relevant documents. Process Purchase
Orders (PO): Verify if contract existing in a PO should be placed for the item
on contract, Verify and capture source documents and place the order with the
supplier, Verify the price on the quotation or competitive bidding method of
procurement should be applied within the delegated authority, Draft Letters of
Awards in cases of the unavailability of JYP and other urgent circumstances.
Send properly signed purchase orders in regard of all goods and service
requests to suppliers which is endorse with the official stamp. Render and
record all procurement transactions: Provide support in monthly reporting for
supply chain management department, administer supply chain day-to-day
duties for procurement of goods and services, ensure proper filling, recording
and safe keeping of documents for audit purposes and administration of stores
and Compile SCM reports on orders issued.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms N Mhlambi Tel No: (010) 493 6316
HR Enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/275/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals
65
POST 39/81 : DATA CAPTURER REF NO: 2025/276/OCJ
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance
CENTRE : Land Court: Randburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF level 4). No experience required and A driver’s license will
serve as an added as an advantage. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of
clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, Knowledge and
understanding of legal framework governing the public service, Knowledge of
administrative principles and procedures, Knowledge of a variety of MS Excel
Spreadsheet functions, data input, Power Point and Outlook, excel autofill and
formulas, formatting cells, number formatting, sort, and filter, Batho Pele
Principles, Computer literacy in MS Word and Excel, Communication skills
(verbal and written), Technical skill, Time management, Interpersonal and
diplomacy skills, Computer Literacy skills, Organisations skills, Problem
solving skills, Planning skills, Customer services orientation, Self-
management, Self-motivated, Creative thinking, Teamwork, Ambitious, Time
bound, Assertive, Flexible and Confidentiality.
DUTIES : Render data capturing service: Capture data from available records into the
required formats e.g. databases, table and spreadsheets, verify query missing
data and errors observed during data entry, Review and validate all data from
the records, conduct regular data backups, provide information to components,
Capture applications on a master list database. Conduct personnel suitability
verification process: Capture fingerprints for the candidates invited for
interviews and upload to the system, conduct personal suitability checks
(criminal, citizen ship, reference checks and verifications of qualifications) for
recommended candidate, Receive the outcomes from the service provider and
consolidate verified data, compile a report based on the outcome (negative) of
the service provider to vetting for further investigation. Provide administration
support services within the sub directorate: Conduct safe keeping for all data
captured document of recruitment and selection, Keep and maintain all
recruitment and selection records accurately according to the Recruitment and
Selection Check List and Appointment Check List, Open office files for all
advertised positions, File and archive old applications, Provide secretariat
support services to the meetings, Provide support with stationery supplies
within the sub-directorate. Collate, analyse and interpret statistics: Apply
standing, policies and procedures/guidelines for the interpretation of data,
Prepare information and data from a specific project, Analyze data by
identifying trends and patterns specific and Produce reports that are practical,
accurate and reliable.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms N Mhlambi Tel No: (010) 493 6316
HR Enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/276/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 39/82 : MESSENGER REF NO: 2025/266/OCJ
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 10 or ABET (NQF level 2) certificate and a driver’s license. A minimum
of one (1) year driving experience in corporate driving will be an added
advantage. Skills and Competencies: Sound organizational skills, Good people
skills, Basic written Communication skills, Computer literate (MS Office), Good
Communication skills, Report writing skills, listening skills, Problem solving and
Analysis, Time Management, Client Orientation, Customer Focus. Knowledge
of the procedures to operate the motor vehicle, prescripts for the correct
utilisation of the motor vehicle and procedures to ensure that the motor vehicle
is maintained properly. Flexible, Ability to work under pressure and meet
deadlines, Creative and innovative, Confidence, Team work, Accountability and
Attention to detail.
DUTIES : Perform messenger functions: Sort and arrange correspondences in the
registry, record and control correspondence register, sort mail, files, documents
and parcels, record contents and physical addresses in the delivery
book/register. Gather and distribute mails and files: Collect, distribute and
circulate correspondences (mail, parcels, documents and files), collect and
66
deliver mail, files, documents and parcels to/from addressor, collect sealed and
addressed items, ensure that the recipients sign on the delivery book/register.
Perform general office assistant tasks, make copies, fax and shred documents,
handle routine and ad-hoc administrative tasks i.e. collect office consumables,
ensure proper and secure control over movement of documents, maintain
accurate and up to date schedule trip sheets i.e. log official trips. Monitor the
State of the vehicle: Ensure that state vehicle is roadworthy, report any
accidents and incidents on the vehicle’s conditions report, issue the officials
with trip authority and book vehicle for service.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms. M Tshilongo Tel No: (010) 494 8440
HR enquiries: Ms. T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/266/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals
67
ANNEXURE M
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The Department of Public Works and Infrastructure is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
The intention is to promote representatively in the Public Service through the filling of these posts and
with persons whose appointment will promote representatively, will receive preference. An indication by
candidates in this regard will facilitate the processing of applications. If no suitable candidates from the
unrepresented groups can be recruited, candidates from the represented groups will be considered.
People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
Head Office (Pretoria) Applications: The Director-General, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at CGO
Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria. For attention: Ms NP
Mudau
Pretoria Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of Public Works, Private Bag X229, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand Deliver to AVN
Building corner Andries and Skinner Street, Pretoria. For attention: Ms M
Masubelele
Durban Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of Public Works, Private Bag X54315, Durban, 4000. Hand Deliver at Corner
Dr Pixley Kasem and Samora Machel Streets Durban. For Attention: Ms NS
Nxumalo
Bloemfontein Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, P/Bag X20605, Bloemfontein, 9300 or Hand
Delivered to 18 President Brandt Street, Bloemfontein, 9300. For Attention: Mr
D Manus
Nelspruit Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of Public Works, Private Bag X11280, Nelspruit, 1200. Physical Address: 30
Brown Street, Nedbank Building, 9th Floor, Nelspruit. For attention: Mr E
Nguyuza
Mmabatho Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X120, Mmabatho, 2735 or Hand
Deliver at 810 Corner Albert Luthuli Drive and Maisantwa Streets, Unit 3,
Mmabatho, 2735. For attention: Mr T. Oagile
Port Elizabeth Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X3913, North End, Port Elizabeth,
6056. Hand delivery: Room 430, Corner. Hancock & Robert Street, North End,
Port Elizabeth, 6056. For attention: Ms S Mafanya. Ms P Buwa
Kimberley Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works and Infrastructure, Private Bag X5002, Kimberley,
8301 or Hand Deliver to 21-23 Market Square, Old Magistrate Building,
Kimberley. For Attention: Ms N Hlongwane
Polokwane Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of public works, Private Bag X9469, Polokwane, 0700 or Hand
deliver at 77 Hans van Rensburg Street, Sanlam Building, Ground Floor,
Polokwane. For Attention: Mr. NJ Khotsa
Cape Town Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X9027, Cape Town, 8000. Or Hand
Deliver at Ground floor, Customs House, Lower Heerengracht Street, Cape
Town. Register the application in the book. For attention: Ms. C Rossouw
Mthatha Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of Public Works, Private Bag X5007, Sutherland Street, Mthatha, 5099 or Hand
Deliver at 29 Sutherland Street, PRD II Building, 5th Floor, Mthatha. For
attention: Ms N Mzalisi
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025 time at 16H00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed Z83 application form
(obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA website link:
https:/www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/, which must be signed, initialled and
dated by the applicant, and must be accompanied by a detailed curriculum
vitae (CV) only. Candidates are not required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and related documents on application. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualification and other
related documents on or before the date of interview, which should not be older
than six months. Should an application be submitted using incorrect/old Z83
68
application form, such an application will be disqualified. Further, take note of
the following on completion of Z83 application form: Part A and Part B must be
fully completed. Part C - Part G: Noting that there is a limited space provided
applicants may refer to CV or indicate. This will be acceptable as long as the
CV has been attached and provides the required information. Page 1 of the
Z83 application form must be initialled and page 2 signed and dated by the
applicant. Failure to comply with the above instructions may result in an
application being disqualified. Applicants applying for more than one advertised
post must submit separate Z83 application forms and CVs in respect to each
post being applied for. Should an application be received where an applicant
has applied for more than one posts on the same Z83 application form, the
applicant will be considered for the first post indicated on the Z83 application
form only. Applications will be received via post/courier services, hand
deliveries or email. Late applications will not be considered. Regulation 57 (c)
and 67 (9) of the Public Service Regulations 2016, as amended, requires the
executive authority to ensure that he or she is fully satisfied of the claims being
made and the finalisation of Personnel Suitability Checks in order to verify
claims and check the candidate for purpose of being fit and proper for
employment, respectively. Shortlisted candidates must be willing to undergo
normal vetting and verification processes. Note: It is the responsibility of all
applicants to ensure that foreign qualifications are evaluated by SAQA. Due to
large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of applications will not be
acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates
only. Should you not have heard from us within three months from the closing
date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Entry level requirements
for SMS posts: in terms of the Directive on Human Resource Management and
Development on Public Service Professionalisation Volume 1 a requirement for
appointment into SMS posts is the successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-Entry programme as endorsed by the National School of
Governance (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link: https:www.thensg.gov.za/training –course /sms-pre-entry
programme/.Note: For emailed applications, please submit a single PDF
document or One Attachment per application to the email address designated
on the specific position. Kindly note that the emailed applications and
attachments should not exceed 15MB. It remains the candidate’s responsibility
to ensure that their application is successfully submitted using the required
single pdf document.
OTHER POSTS
POST 39/83 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: IMMOVABLE ASSET REGISTER GRAP
ACCOUNTING REF NO: 2025/124 (X5 POSTS)
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A Minimum of three year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Financial
Accounting, Asset Management and Business Administration as recognized by
SAQA, Relevant Experience at a Junior Management/Assistant Director level
equivalence. Relevant working experience in Asset Management, financial
reporting and project management will be an added advantage. Willingness to
travel. Valid unendorsed drivers licence, Excellent inter-personal Skills and
Presentation Skills. Negotiation, Communication and networking Skills. Ability
to work under pressure and deadline driven. Advanced MS Office Skills.
Proven Skills in MS Project or similar tool skills is an added advantage.
Prioritizing and managing workflow and to be outcome orientated. Use initiative
but be flexible, energetic and able to act with authority. Provide support to
Programme Managers. Good Verbal and written communication Skills.
Understanding the mandate of the Department. People Management Skills,
Strategic leadership and Economic orientation.
DUTIES : Perform regular review and assessments of IARM policies and procedures to
ensure that they are aligned to the GRAP (16, 17 and 103), GIAMA, PFMA and
other statutory requirements, Liaise with technical and other units that inform
GRAP compliance, Identify completed projects for capitalisation, Design and
manage a plan for physical verification of completed projects, Ensure that the
IAR is updated with acquisitions, valuations, disposals and transfers, Apply
69
deemed cost on properties (transfer, additions etc.), Perform monthly
reconciliations for itemised billing, leases, AUC, municipal rates & taxes and
other customer transactions, Perform reconciliations between Deeds and the
IAR bi-annually, Ensure that IAR inputs (AFS note, journals, IAR and
supporting schedules) are prepared timeously for the Interim Financial
Statements and Annual Financial Statements, Perform reconciliation between
properties handed over for physical verification and QA report and update IAR,
Develop the risk and control matrix; and monitor compliance thereof, Analyse
audit reports and develop audit remediation plans, Implement audit plans and
respond to audit queries, Provide advisory support to management on asset
register and GRAP Compliant.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Siboniso Sokhela Tel No: (012) 406 1143
APPLICATIONS : Email Applications to this Email Address: Recruitment25-64@dpw.gov.za
POST 39/84 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS (GIS) REF
NO: 2025/125
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A Minimum of three year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Geographic
Information System as recognized by SAQA, registration with SAGC (PLATO),
Relevant Experience at a Junior Management/Assistant Director level
equivalence. Relevant working experience in GIS, Asset Management,
Statistical analysis and project management will be an added advantage.
Willingness to travel, valid unendorsed drivers’ license, excellent inter-personal
Skills and Presentation Skills. Negotiation, Communication and networking,
Ability to work under pressure and dead line driven. Advanced MS Office Skills.
Proven Skills in MS Project or similar tool skills is an added advantage,
Prioritizing and managing workflow and to be outcome orientated. Use initiative
but be flexible, energetic and able to act with authority. Provide support to
Programme Managers, Good Verbal and written communication Skills.
Understanding the mandate of the Department, People Management Skills,
Strategic leadership and Economic orientation.
DUTIES : Design, plan and perform advanced GIS analysis to address organizations
strategic objective, Undertake spatial modelling, Facilitate the collection and
capturing of spatial data from various formats and sources, Ensure the
publishing of metadata, Coordinate the design, development and creation of
geospatial databases, Conduct analysis and visualization of data to meet the
stated requirement, Manage and implement image processes and procedures,
Undertake operational and project requirements. Manage GIS Sub Directorate
effectiveness, Allocate, control, monitor and report on all resources, Manage
and implement knowledge sharing initiatives e.g. short-term assignments and
training, continuously monitor the exchange and protection of information
between operations and individuals to ensure effective knowledge
management according to departmental objectives. GIS Establishment and
implementation, Undertake cost benefit analysis of GIS in the REIRS branch,
Develop process model and workflows diagrams, Implement GIS policy and
standards, give support in drafting the Terms of Reference for GIS projects.
Research, Research, investigate and advice on new GIS technologies, Advise
on research viability and feasibility, Recommend and compile appropriate plan
to respond to the research problem, Develop new methods/technologies for
solving spatial data problems, Research and implement new GIS standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Siboniso Sokhela Tel No: (012) 406 2043
APPLICATIONS : Email Applications to this Email Address: Recruitment25-65@dpw.gov.za
POST 39/85 : ADMIN OFFICER: IMMOVABLE ASSET REGISTER (X10 POSTS)
(12 Months Contracts)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria) Ref No: 2025/126 (X5 Posts)
Kimberly Regional Office Ref No: 2025/127 (X2 Posts)
Mmabatho Regional Office Ref No: 2025/128 (X1 Post)
Polokwane Regional Office Ref No: 2025/129 (X1 Post)
Pretoria Regional Office Ref No: 2025/130 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF level 6) in Property
Management; Real Estate; Town & Regional Planning, Accounting, Commerce
70
or tertiary qualification with any of the following as major subjects; Property
Law / Assets Management or Accounting. Appropriate relevant experience in
Property/Accounting/Immovable Asset Register Management. Experience in
State land administration and verification of immovable assets (land and
buildings) will be an added advantage. Valid driver’s License. Computer
literacy. Decision making skills. Negotiation skills. Excellent inter-personal skills
and Communication skills. Good Verbal and written communication Skills.
Ability to work under pressure and deadline driven.
DUTIES : General administrative responsibilities and functions to support the Deputy
Director: Immovable Asset Register. Assist the Deputy Director with monitoring
tasks during the implementation phase of various Immovable Asset Register
projects. Administer the performance of physical verification activities to
provide status information around the existence and condition of all Immovable
Assets in the register. Monitor that all improvements to state property are
appropriately identified and recorded in the IAR. Vesting of land parcels and
endorsement of title deeds under the custodianship of DPW. Verify documents
or information from numerous sources (Deeds Office, Surveyor-General,
Municipalities, etc.). Perform such other duties, appropriate to the role, as may
be required by the Deputy Director.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Siboniso Sokhela Tel No: (012) 406 1143/2043
APPLICATIONS : Email Applications for Head Office (Pretoria) to: Recruitment25-
66@dpw.gov.za
Email Applications for Kimberly Regional Office to: RecruitKIM25-
10@dpw.gov.za
Email Applications for Mmabatho Regional Office to: RecruitMBT25-
03@dpw.gov.za
Email Applications for Polokwane Regional Office to: RecruitPLK25-
04@dpw.gov.za
Email Applications for Pretoria Regional Office to: RecruitPTA25-
11@dpw.gov.za
POST 39/86 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: IMMOVABLE ASSET REGISTER
(VERIFICATION) (X27 POSTS)
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria) Ref No: 2025/131 (X12 Posts)
Pretoria Regional Office Ref No: 2025/132 (X2 Posts)
Polokwane Regional Office Ref No: 2025/133 (X1 Posts)
Mmabatho Regional Office Ref No: 2025/134 (X2 Posts)
Bloemfontein Regional Office Ref No: 2025/135 (X1 Post)
Nelspruit Regional Office Ref No: 2025/136 (X2 Posts)
Durban Regional Office Ref No: 2025/137 (X2 Posts)
Cape Town Regional Office Ref No: 2025/138 (X2 Posts)
Mthatha Regional Office Ref No: 2025/139 (X1 Post)
Port Elizabeth Regional Office Ref No: 2025/140 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Senior Certificate/Grade 12/equivalent qualification. Driver’s
license required. Report writing skills, good interpersonal relations, good
general office administrative and organization skills, Basic numeracy, computer
literacy.
DUTIES : Assist in physical verification of NDPWI assets. Perform support function to
ASD and DD Physical Verification. Perform desktop planning and confirmation
of ownership of land parcels. Assist with GIS spatial data checks. Check and
verify property data on relevant database and ERP solution. Do approvals for
all transactions passed by regions from mobile application. Administer the
performance of physical verification activities to provide status information
around existence and condition of all Immovable Assets in the register. Ensure
data accurateness in the IAR. Verify documents and do deeds searches. Assist
with property information to other units. Perform physical verification of sites
and condition assessment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Sokhela Tel No: (012) 406 1143
APPLICATIONS : Email Applications for Head Office (Pretoria) to: Recruitment25-
67@dpw.gov.za
Email Applications for Pretoria Regional Office to: RecruitPTA25-
12@dpw.gov.za
Email Applications for Polokwane Regional Office to: RecruitPLK25-
05@dpw.gov.za
71
Email Applications for Mmabatho Regional Office to: RecruitMBT25-
04@dpw.gov.za
Email Applications for Bloemfontein Regional Office to: RecruitBLOEM25-
05@dpw.gov.za
Email Applications for Nelspruit Regional Office to: RecruitNEL25-
04@dpw.gov.za
Email Applications for Durban Regional Office to: RecruitDBN25-
08@dpw.gov.za
Email Applications for Cape Town Regional Office to: RecruitCPT25-
15@dpw.gov.za
Email Applications for Mthatha Regional Office to: RecruitMTH25-
04@dpw.gov.za
Email Applications for Port Elizabeth Regional Office to: RecruitPE25-
07@dpw.gov.za
72
ANNEXURE N
DEPARTMENT OF SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Small Business Development is an equal opportunity & affirmative action employer. It
is the DSBD’s intention to promote representativity (race, gender, youth & disability). The candidature of
persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by email to the relevant email and by quoting
the relevant reference number provided on the subject line. Acceptable formats
for submission of documents are limited to MS Word, PDF.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025 at 16h00. Applications received after the closing date will
not be considered.
NOTE : Applications must quote the relevant reference number and consist of: A fully
completed and signed Z83 form and a recent comprehensive CV. Submission
of copies of qualifications, Identity document, and any other relevant
documents will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. All non-SA citizens will
be required to submit proof of permanent residence in South Africa when
shortlisted. Personnel suitability checks will be done during the selection
process. Applicants could be required to provide consent for access to their
social media accounts. All shortlisted candidates for SMS and/or MMS (MMS
optional) posts will be subjected to (1) a technical exercise, (2) a generic
managerial competency assessment. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within 1 month of
the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Department of Small Business Development is committed to the
pursuit of diversity and redress. Candidates whose appointment will promote
presentively in terms of race, disability, youth & gender will receive preference
(as per the DSBD EE Plan). The successful candidate will be required to sign
a performance agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as
completing a financial interest’s declaration form within one month of
appointment and annually thereafter. The Department reserves the rights not
to fill or withdraw any advertised post. Note: a new application for employment
(Z83) form is applicable from 01 January 2021. The new form can be
downloaded online at http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp.
OTHER POST
POST 39/87 : LEGAL ADMIN OFFICER “REF NO: LAO”
SALARY : R464 634 - R1 111 323 per annum (MR-5) in line with the OSD
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Law (LLB) or 4-year legal qualification as recognised by SAQA. Be
admitted as an Attorney or Advocate of the Bar Council. Minimum of 8 years of
appropriate post qualification legal experience. Postgraduate degree in Law
and admitted as an Attorney or Advocate of the Bar Council would be
considered an added advantage. Training in MS Office Packages and possess
Legislative knowledge of the Framework on Litigation, Drafting of Contracts,
Legislative drafting, Working knowledge of civil litigation, criminal procedure
and practice, court rules. Have competencies in Communication (Verbal and
Written), Trial advocacy, Analytical thinking skills, Policy analysis, Conflict
resolution, Research skills and Negotiation skills.
DUTIES : Study and cite relevant cases on aspects related to legal Opinion and provide
recommendations and conclusion within permissible legal prescripts. Conduct
research on applicable policy, legislation or regulation and legal principles WRT
legal Opinion and formulate questions to be answered on legal Opinion.
Consult and prepare brief advising the relevant authority seeking authority to
institute or defend the Departmental legal position. Verify contracts to be
drafted and edited. Draft legal documents and advise on hand or mentor juniors
on drafting of legal documents that provide clear motivation/ justification for a
particular position pertaining to the case and determine if the contract is legal
and whether it reflects the intention of the Department. Certify the contract and
verify consistency between the instruction and content of the contract and
verify signed contents of the contract with that as certified. Communicate with
internal and external stakeholders on legal matters to ensure compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries for all advertised posts should be directed to the recruitment office
on Tel No: (012) 394-5286/3097
73
NOTE : The Department of Small Business Development is committed to the pursuit of
diversity and redress. Candidates whose appointment will promote
representivity in terms of race, disability, youth & gender will receive preference
(as per the DSBD EE Plan). Candidates must submit applications to
recruitment4@dsbd.gov.za and quote the reference number for the above-
mentioned position on the subject line (email) when applying i.e REF NO: LAO
74
ANNEXURE O
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/ Other related documentation such as copies
of qualifications, identity document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany
the application when applying for a post as such documentation must only be
produced by shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA
circular 19 of 2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or
occupational registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be
completed as these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or
disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No
late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
pertaining to Senior Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical and competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained
from the National School of government is required prior to the appointment.
Candidates will be required to complete a financial disclosure form and
undergo security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must
provide a police clearance certificate from country of origin (only when
shortlisted). The Department of Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity
employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of
the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment
Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of the Department will be
taken into consideration. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within three (3) months of this
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful.
Faxed applications will not be considered. The department reserves the right
not to fill these positions. Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged
to apply and preference will be given to the EE Targets.’’
OTHER POSTS
POST 39/88 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGIST GRADE A REF NO: 071125/01
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Northern Operations
Dir: Operations Northern
SALARY : R921 900 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Groblersdal
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor of Technology in Engineering (B-Tech) or relevant Engineering
qualification. Six years post qualification Engineering Technologist experience
required. Compulsory registration with Engineering Council of South African
(ECSA) as a Professional Engineering Technologist. The disclosure of a valid
unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge of Operations and Maintenance
management (O&M), project management, contracts management and
procurement processes (SCM). Knowledge of legal compliance and technical
report writing. Good communication skills both (verbal and written), conflict
management and negotiation skills. Problem solving and analysis, decision
making, teamwork, creativity, financial management, people management,
customer focus, responsiveness, planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Manage an Area Office with technical support from a team of Engineers,
Technologist, technicians, artisans and Associates in the field. Ensure the
promotion of safety in line with statutory and regulatory requirements. Lead
work streams that involve evaluation of existing technical manuals, standard
drawings, and procedures to incorporate new technology. Ensure quality
assurance of technical designs with specifications and authorize, make
recommendations for approval by the relevant authority. Manage
administrative, human resources and related functions. Financial Management
and provide inputs into the budgeting process, operational plan, procurement
plan and related matters. Compile and submit reports as required. Participate
in cluster-performance enabling committees such as OHS Committee,
75
Disposal committee, BID committees, security forums, MANCO and as per
operations need. Attend to Risk and Disaster Management matters. Research
and Development through continuous professional development to keep up
with new technologies and procedures. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on
engineering related matters. Must be prepared to work away from the office
and travel extensively across the Area office footprint, Cluster office footprint
and nationally for Chief Directorate’s business calls. Provide mentorship and
supervision of personnel. Research / literature studies and technical
engineering technology to improve expertise.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TG Monaisa Tel No: (012) 200 9000
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 39/89 : SENIOR SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTITIONER RER NO: 071125/02
Branch: Finance Main Account
Dir: Asset Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 6 qualification in Accounting / Financial Management,
Logistics Management or Supply Chain Management. Three (3) years’
experience in Asset Management environment. The disclosure of a valid
unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge of the PFMA, Asset Management
Framework and Treasury Regulations and other relevant legislation.
Knowledge of Basic Accounting System (BAS) & LOGIS. Computer literacy
with sound knowledge of the Ms Office suite preferably Excel. Demonstrate
leadership/ interpersonal relationship and asset management skills. Good
client service orientation skills. Ability to monitor and check information as well
as set up and maintain information system. Willingness to work cooperatively
with others as a team and good communication skills.
DUTIES : Ensure that assets are properly accounted for in the Asset Register and
complies with National Treasury Guidelines. Update new additions,
movements, transfers and disposals. Reconcile BAS with the Asset Register
on monthly basis. Monitor all entries made on the Asset Register as per
minimum requirements. Identifying and facilitating replacement assets for
redundant and obsolete assets. Retiring of all losses and disposed assets in
the register. Ensure that asset policies and procedures guidelines are
implemented and ensure compliance thereof. Ensure that the Department’s.
Perform quarterly asset count. Conduct bi–annual physical verification of
movable assets and reconcile against the Asset Register. Monitoring and
reviewing the allocation of assets to asset holders. Update inventory lists.
Conducting investigations on unverified assets Implement and manage
registers for Finance Leases. Verify the existence of Finance Leases and
prepare monthly reconciliation between Bas and amortization tables versus the
Finance Leases register. Ensure reconciling items are cleared. Ensure proper
annual reporting and reconciliations. Quality assurance of asset management
processes. Assist on preparing AFS for interim & final audit for both internal &
external Auditors. Quarterly review performance of staff within Asset
Management in line with the Human Resources Management guidelines.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Woko, Tel No: (012) 336 8982
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 39/90 : STATE ACCOUNTANT REF NO: 071125/03
Branch: Finance Main
Dir: Management Accounting
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 6 qualification in Local Government Finance,
Management Accounting or Financial Accounting. One (1) to (2) two years’
experience in Financial Accounting. Knowledge and understanding of financial
Legislation, policies, practices and procedures. Knowledge and understanding
of financial prescripts such as DORA and PFMA. Knowledge of administrative
and clerical procedures and systems. Knowledge of equal opportunities and
Affirmative action guidelines and laws. Knowledge of learning and teaching
procedures and techniques. Departmental policies and procedures.
Knowledge of governmental financial systems. Planning and organizing skills.
76
Teamwork and good computer literacy. Problem solving and analysis. People
and Diversity Management. Client orientation and customer focus. Good
communication skills both (verbal and written). Accountability and ethical
conduct.
DUTIES : Render BAS maintenance on the financial system. Update records on the
system which include: creating, deleting and amending of BAS segment codes;
updating, amending of SCOA structures; creating, deleting and amending of
BAS printer paths; maintenance of user codes and access levels; assistance
with monthly and yearly closure of the Basic Accounting System (BAS);
workflow maintenance of regions and Head Office; maintaining of budget
profiles and access; solving of user related queries and system errors;
requesting of reports by Directorates, Regions, auditors and Managers;
monitoring and clearing of outstanding transactions on BAS; and updating of
the translation tables on PERSAL. Ensure that employees receive relevant
BAS financial training and scheduling relevant courses with SITA. Attend to
audit-related inquiries. Gather and submit information requested by auditors
within the required time. Provide inputs on BAS policy amendments. Ensure
the implementation of policies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R Beneke Tel No: (012) 336 7640
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 39/91 : SECURITY OFFICER SUPERVISOR REF NO: 071125/04 (X3 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Northern Operations
Dir: Operations Northern
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Nandoni Dam
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF Level (4) or (5) (A Senior/Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent). Three
(3) years’ working supervisory experience in security environment. Security
Certificate (A Minimum of 1 year of study). A valid Grade B PSIRA certificate.
The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license will serve as an added
advantage. The disclosure of a Valid SAPS Firearms Competency Certificate
(Handgun, Shotgun & Rifle for business purpose). A valid NKP certificate.
Knowledge of access control procedures. Knowledge of measures for the
control movement of equipment and stores. Knowledge of prescribed security
procedures (e.g., MISS, MPSS, Protection of Information Act, and the authority
of security officers under these Documents. Good listening skills and
interpersonal skills. Good verbal and written communication skills and
Computer skills.
DUTIES : Supervise the security functions performed by contracted security (PSSP),
ensuring adherence to Department security policies. Administrative and
Related functions, provide security-related support and administer all control
room operations to safeguard the department assets, conducts preliminary
investigation. Perform unannounced visits or inspections. Control and
management of the shifts. Enforce access control of all the vehicles, people
visiting and leaving the National Key Point areas. Ensure that the National Key
Point areas are guarded and patrolled all the time. Ensure compliance with
Firearm Control Act and other legislations. Ensure prohibition of unauthorised
entry and removal of equipment’s. Conduct searching. Responding to alarms.
Conduct investigations where incidents occurred. Render supervision on
personnel at National Key Point areas.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. KS Thantsha Tel No: (015) 307 8600
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 39/92 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: 071125/05
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Southern Operations
Dir: Operations Southern
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Uitkeer
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 certificate. Have knowledge/competencies of clerical
functions, Knowledge of basic financial operating systems (SAP). Knowledge
and understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Basic knowledge of problem solving and analysis. A highly motivated individual
with good time management and organisational skills. Excellent interpersonal
77
and communication skills are required to deal with people at all levels in the
Department and the incumbent must have skill in the use of computer
applications such as MS Word, Excel, Outlook, and PowerPoint. Have
accountability and ethical conduct. Teamwork and flexibility. Communication
skills, verbal and written. Client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services to the Director and the officials within
the Directorate. Keep and maintain the incoming and outgoing registers in the
Directorate. Receive and respond to queries timeously. Receive and deliver
documents for the Directorate as and when required. Maintain the filing system
for the Directorate. Make photocopies and receive or send facsimiles. Type
letters and/or other correspondences when required. Provide supply chain
management support services within the Directorate. Complete procurement
forms / capture purchase requisition on SAP system for purchasing of
standards office items, drums, toners, stationery, IT equipment etc. Collect and
control all received standards office items, drums, toners, stationery, IT
equipment. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in relation to
procurement of goods and services. Receive and verify delivered goods /
services for the Directorate. Stock control of offices stationery. Keep and
maintain the asset register of the Directorate. Provide support in arranging
travelling and accommodation requests if or when required. Provide financial
administration support services in the Directorate. Check correctness of
subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit to the manager for
approval. Receive, verify and process invoices for payment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Cannon at Tel No: (063) 500 6215
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from the geographical area
POST 39/93 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: 071125/06
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Southern Operations
Dir: Operations Southern
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Uitkeer
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 certificate. Have knowledge/competencies of clerical
functions, Knowledge of basic financial operating systems (SAP). Knowledge
and understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Basic knowledge of problem solving and analysis. A highly motivated individual
with good time management and organisational skills. Excellent interpersonal
and communication skills are required to deal with people at all levels in the
Department and the incumbent must have skill in the use of computer
applications such as MS Word, Excel, Outlook, and PowerPoint. Have
accountability and ethical conduct. Teamwork and flexibility. Communication
skills, verbal and written. Client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services to the Scheme Manager and the
officials within the Directorate. Keep and maintain the incoming and outgoing
registers in the Directorate. Receive and respond to queries timeously.
Transport: Accident and inspections of subsidised and vehicles. Report of all
accidents by user and completion of accident reports from user filed. Check
correctness of accident reports from users. Investigate accidents and prepare
report based on findings. Reporting of accidents to Service Providers and
SAPS to obtain reference and case numbers. Complete relevant documents to
for monthly rental of fleet vehicles through a travel agent. Ensure approval to
repair in writing for all accident damaged vehicles. Administer an inspection
programme in line with the transport policy. Receive and inspect vehicles from
service providers. Report on subsidised transport and conduct Inspections as
per established programme. Transport: Administration of long-term, short-term
vehicles. Prepare trip authority and ensure that it is signed by relevant officials.
Issued fuel card and complete form to be signed by relevant officials. Transport:
Log-sheet and trip authorities-subsidised, Service Provider of long-term, short-
term vehicles. Obtain Kilometres readings from users/driver. Receive log-sheet
and trip authorities, fuel slip etc. Compare approved trip authorisation and
itinerary with log-sheet. Check correctness of logs and submit to be Signed off
by Supervisor. Transport; Monthly Reporting. Compile monthly reports based
on vehicle usage, compliance to approvals and fuel usage in relation to
kilometres travelled. Ensure proper filing systems in place for all transport
related documentation. Provide financial administration support.
78
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Cannon, Tel No: (063) 500 6215
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from the geographical area
POST 39/94 : GENERAL WORKER REF NO: 071125/07
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Southern Operations
Dir: Southern Operations
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Breede/Gouritz (Western Cape - Worcester)
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET Certificate. Higher qualifications will serve as an added advantage.
Experience in performing manual work will serve an added advantage.
Knowledge and Competencies: Basic knowledge of the following is essential:
General work in handling equipment and appliances. Various general work,
including lawn care processes. Pruning and trimming processes and
techniques. Chemical use (dilution/mix) and chemical product knowledge.
Daily maintenance procedures for efficient machine/equipment performance.
Supporting water utilisation and water resource strategy. Health and safety
procedures. Garden maintenance and planting practices. A basic
understanding of Government legislation. Must be able and willing to work in
or near rivers, dams, canals and confined spaces.
DUTIES : Perform general assistant work. This includes but is not limited to: Loading and
off-loading furniture, equipment, and other goods to their relevant destinations.
Cleaning government vehicles, machinery, and equipment. Cleaning the
relevant workstations and ensuring working areas are clean. Cleaning lawns
and pruning trees where necessary. Clean and maintain grounds, canals etc.
Repair tools and structures such as building, fences, around canals dam areas
and benches using hand and power tools. Mix spray or spread fertilizers using
hand or atomic sprayers or spreaders. Provide proper upkeep of sidewalks,
driveways, parking lots, planters, and other ground features. Maintain existing
grounds / gardens by caring for sod, plants, and trees. Rake and mulch leaves
irrigate plants and lawns. Sweep walkways, grounds, and clean buildings by
sweeping and washing floors. Perform labouring duties to support
maintenance, repair and construction of public infrastructure. Assisting with
cleaning and repairing water supply systems like canals, drains, dams, and
pipelines.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mthenjana at Tel No: (071) 861 8066
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from the geographical area
POST 39/95 : GENERAL WORKER REF NO: 071125/08 (X4 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Southern Operations
Dir: Southern Operations
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Uitkeer
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET Certificate. Higher qualifications will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge of general work in handling equipment and appliances. Knowledge
of working on various general work including lawn care process. Knowledge of
the pruning and trimming process and techniques. Basic knowledge of
chemical use (dilution/mix) chemical product knowledge. Basic knowledge of
daily maintenance procedures for efficient machine/equipment performance.
Basic knowledge in supporting water utilisation and water resource strategy.
Basic knowledge of health and safety procedures. Basic understanding of
Government legislation.
DUTIES : Perform general assistant work. Load and off load furniture, equipment and any
other goods to relevant destination. Clean government vehicles. Clean relevant
workstations. Cutting of grass and cleaning pavements. Cutting and stockpiling
of trees
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Cannon at Tel No: (063) 500 6215
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from the geographical area
79
POST 39/96 : GENERAL WORKER REF NO: 071125/09 (X15 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Northern Operations
Dir: Operations Northern
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Groblersdal:
(Mechanical Maintenance) (X5 Posts)
(Electrical Maintenance) (X3 Posts)
(Civil Maintenance) (X7 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET Certificate. Higher qualifications will serve as an added advantage.
Preference will be given to candidates who can demonstrate relevant work
experience in a similar environment. Knowledge of working on various general
work including lawn care process, vegetation clearance, and general grounds
maintenance. Basic knowledge of maintenance practices for the efficient and
safe upkeep of government water infrastructure and associated facilities. Basic
disciplinary knowledge in Occupational Health and Safety procedures. Basic
understanding of government legislation and policy implementation. Expected
to do practical during interviews.
DUTIES : Provide general assistance to artisans and technicians in carrying out
maintenance and operational tasks. Perform Loading and off-loading of
equipment and any other items as directed by supervisor. Carry out general
maintenance activities including fencing, weed control, gardening, painting,
maintenance of fire breaks and herbicide application. Conduct general routine
inspections. Perform maintenance tasks on government water infrastructure
and related facilities. Report faults, defects, and safety hazards to supervisors
promptly. Adhere to the Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Act and all
related safety regulations. Assist with other general duties as and when
requested.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. ST Ngcobo Tel No: (013) 262 6839
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 39/97 : GENERAL WORKER (X46 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Northern Operations
Dir: Operations Northern
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nwanedi/Luphephe Ref No: 071125/10 (X4 Posts)
Mutshedzi Ref No: 071125/11 (X3 Posts)
Nzhelele Canals Ref No: 071125/12 (X5 Posts)
Nzhelele Dam Ref No: 071125/13 (X1 Post)
Nandoni Dam Ref No: 071125/14 (X6 Posts)
Letaba System Ref No: 071125/15 (X7 Posts)
Sterkrivier Canal Ref No: 071125/16 (X13 Posts)
Roodeplaat Dam Ref No: 071125/17 (X7 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET Certificate. Higher qualifications will serve as an added advantage.
Preference will be given to candidates who can demonstrate relevant work
experience in a similar environment. Knowledge of general worker in handling
gardening equipment and appliances. Knowledge of working on various
general work including lawn care process. Basic knowledge of maintenance
practices for the efficient and safe upkeep of government water infrastructure
and associated facilities.
DUTIES : Carry out general maintenance activities including weed control, gardening,
painting, maintenance of fire breaks and herbicide application. Conduct
general routine inspections on Departmental infrastructure. Perform
maintenance tasks on government water infrastructure and related facilities
such as canals, pipelines, dams, servitudes, terrain and buildings. Report
faults, defects, and safety hazards to supervisors promptly. Load and off load
equipment. Adhere to the Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Act and all
related safety regulations. Assist with other general duties as and when
requested.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. KS Thantsha Tel No: (015) 307 8600 (Nwanedi/Luphepe, Mutshedzi,
Nzhelele Dam, Nzhele Canals, Nandoni Dam, Letaba canal system and
Sterkrivier canal)
Mr A Naicker at Tel No: (087) 943 3719 (Roodeplaat Dam)
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
80
POST 39/98 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: 071125/18
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Southern Operations
Dir: Operations Southern
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Voelvlei Scheme (Western Cape)
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET Certificate or relevant qualification. Zero - one (1) year working
experience. Added years of experience in performing manual work will be an
added advantage. The following knowledge and competencies are required:
Knowledge of working on various general work and handling equipment and
appliances. Knowledge of gardening equipment including lawn care process
and competencies are required (pruning and trimming process and
techniques). Knowledge of chemical use (dilution/mix) and chemical product
knowledge. Knowledge of daily maintenance procedures for efficient
machine/equipment performance. Basic knowledge in supporting water
utilisation and water resource strategy. Knowledge of health and safety
procedures. Knowledge of garden maintenance and planting practices. Basic
understanding of Government legislation. Good communication skills and the
ability to work in a team. Must be able to work in or near rivers, dams, and
canals, and in confined spaces. Must be able and willing to assist other
schemes and maintenance teams when needed. Must be punctual, productive,
and loyal.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the following Key Performance
Areas: Clean and maintain grounds and repair tools and structures such as
buildings, fences, and benches using hand and power tools. Mix, spray, or
spread fertilisers, herbicides, or insecticides onto grass, shrubs, and trees
using hand or automatic sprayers or spreaders. Provide proper upkeep of
sidewalks, driveways, parking lots, fountains, planters, and other grounds
features. Maintain existing grounds/gardens by caring for sod, plants, and
trees. Rake and mulch leaves and irrigate plants and lawns. Sweep parking
lots, walkways, and grounds; clean buildings by sweeping, washing floors, and
cleaning windows. Perform routine maintenance on equipment, repair minor
damages, and refer major repairs to service providers. Maintain accurate
records, such as job cards and equipment repair logs. Conduct inspections and
report defects, such as cracks in structures, holes in embankments, and
stagnant water.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MA Lepota at Tel No: 071 861 5581
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from the geographical area.
81
ANNEXURE P
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: EASTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS AND TOURISM
DEDEAT in the Eastern Cape is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted only via the provincial e-Recruitment system
available at: https://ecprov.gov.za (under Careers) and/or at
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za. The system is available 24/7 throughout and
closes at 23:59 on the closing date. To report any challenges pertaining e-
Recruitment System, send an email with your ID Number, your profile e-Mail
Address and the details of the issue to: Recruitment@dedea.gov.za. Do not
submit any CVs to this email address; should you do so, your application will
be regarded as lost and will not be considered. NO Hand-Delivered/ No
Emailed / No Faxed / No Posted applications will be accepted.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly completed new Z83 (effective from
01 January 2021) form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on
the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of their qualifications and other relevant documents with their
application, but must submit a fully completed, signed Z83 form and a detailed
Curriculum Vitae. NB: Z83 in the e-recruitment system is currently not
downloadable and therefore not signable; so, applicants who submitted
applications via the e-recruitment system will not be disqualified for an
unsigned Z83, instead will be requested to sign on interview day. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of their qualifications and
other relevant documents to HR on or before the interview date. Applicants with
foreign qualifications would be required to submit an evaluation certificate from
the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) on or before the day of the
interview. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
disqualification of the application. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within six (6) weeks after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability
check (criminal record check, citizenship verification, financial/asset record
check, qualification/study verification and previous employment verification). In
addition, Successful candidates will also be subjected to security clearance
processes. Where applicable, candidates will be subjected to a
skills/knowledge test. Misrepresentation in the application documents will
result in automatic disqualification and disciplinary action in the event that the
candidate has already been appointed. The Recruiting Department reserves
the right not to make appointment(s) to the advertised post(s). Persons with
disability and people from previously disadvantaged groups are encouraged to
apply. The department’s objective is to address the Employment Equity
Affirmative Action Measures in line with the Employment Equity Plan and
achieve equitable representation across all races and genders. In filling these
posts, gender equity and people living with disability will be highly considered.
For SMS (Senior Management Service) Posts: In terms of DPSA Directive on
compulsory capacity development, mandatory training, and minimum entry
requirements for members of the Senior Management Level for SMS
appointments, it is a requirement for applicants to produce a pre-entry
Certificate (Nyukela) as offered by the National School of Government (NSG)
for entry into the SMS posts prior appointment and the full details can be
sourced by following the link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-
pre-entry-programme. Successful candidates will be appointed on a probation
period of 12 months. The competency assessment will test generic managerial
competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools.
OTHER POSTS
POST 39/99 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COMPLIANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT REF
NO: DEDEAT/2025/10/01
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma/ B Degree/ (NQF L6/7),
preferably B Degree (NQF 7) in Risk Management /or a relevant equivalent
82
qualification. 3 years’ relevant experience at supervisory level or salary level
7/8. The following skills, knowledge, and attributes are required: Investigations,
Policy Development, Application of Relevant Legislative Procedures, and
Fraud and Corruption Prevention. Problem Analysis, Influence,
Communication, Interpersonal Relations and Networking, Time Management,
Planning and Organising, Report Writing. A valid driver’s licence is required.
DUTIES : Provide technical support with the development and maintenance of DEDEAT’s
Risk Management Governance Structure, framework, policies and
instruments. Implement DEDEAT’s enterprise-wide risk management
framework. Supervise administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za/ for attention Mr. O.
Desi/ Mr. P. Makhele.
NOTE : Employment Equity target: Coloured Male/PWD
POST 39/100 : LEGAL ADMIN OFFICER – GRADE 5 REF NO: DEDEAT/2025/10/02
SALARY : R464 634 – R1 111 323 per annum (OSD). Appropriate salary will be
determined according to the regulatory framework (based on OSD)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus an LLB Degree (NQF L7) or equivalent
qualification. At least 8 years’ appropriate post-qualification legal experience.
Admission as an Attorney / Advocate will be an added advantage. The following
skills, knowledge, and attributes are required: National Environmental
Management Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act, NEMBA,
Computer literacy and skills, good writing, and communication skills. A valid
driver’s licence is required.
DUTIES : Provide legal, legal drafting and compliance advisory services. Coordinate the
provisioning of litigation, appeal, contract development and specialised
environmental law advisory and support services. Manage allocated resources
and ensure compliance with governance and planning frameworks. Perform
and manage administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at Tel No: 078 026 7383
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za/ for attention Mr. O.
Desi/ Mr. P. Makhele.
NOTE : Employment Equity Target: White Female/PWD
POST 39/101 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A: CLIMATE CHANGE
REF NO: DEDEAT/2025/10/03
SALARY : R612 480 – R700 620 per annum, (OSD). An appropriate salary will be
determined according to the regulatory framework (based on OSD).
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant Honours Degree (NQF Level 8) as recognised by SAQA in Natural
Sciences, Environmental Management, Nature Conservation, Environmental
Law, Climate Change, or Renewable Energy Studies. A minimum of 6 years’
post-qualification experience in the climate change environment or related
field. A valid driver’s licence is required. The following skills, knowledge, and
attributes are required: Knowledge of Relevant legislation and frameworks
(National Environmental Management Act, Climate Change Act, NEMBA,
Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, PFMA and Treasury
Regulations), Policy development processes and implementation, and Climate
change mitigation and adaptation issues, including South Africa’s Greenhouse
Gas (GHG) emission profile, Just Transition policy priorities, and energy
transition frameworks. Skills and competencies: Well-developed
communication and reporting skills, Strong planning, coordination, and project
management skills, Financial and budgeting knowledge, including technical
and financial reporting, Good interpersonal relations, ability to work
independently and in a team, ability to work under pressure, and Computer
literacy. Added advantage: Experience in integrating climate change
considerations into municipal planning and development frameworks.
DUTIES : Provide and coordinate integrated climate change management planning and
development practices. Develop and maintain integrated climate change
management policy, legislation and regulations. Coordinate the
implementation of climate change management-related policies and
regulations, monitor, evaluate and report on the impact thereof. Develop and
83
maintain an integrated climate change information management system.
Perform and manage administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za/ for attention Mr. O.
Desi/ Mr. P. Makhele.
NOTE : Employment Equity Target: Coloured Male / Persons with Disability.
POST 39/102 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER SPECIALISED PRODUCTION: COMPLIANCE
& ENFORCEMENT (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R498 816 – R690 237 per annum, (OSD). Appropriate salary will be determined
according to the regulatory framework (based on OSD)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo Region Ref No: DEDEAT/2025/10/04
Chris Hani Region Ref No: DEDEAT/2025/10/05 (Re-advertisement)
Joe Gqabi Region Ref No: DEDEAT/2025/10/06
O.R Tambo Region Ref No: DEDEAT/2025/10/07 (X2 Posts)
Sarah Baartman Region Ref No: DEDEAT/2025/10/08
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a Relevant Honours Degree (NQF 8) in Natural
Sciences or relevant qualification. No experience as per OSD requirements;
however, 1-2 years’ relevant experience will be an added advantage. The
following skills, knowledge and attributes are required: NEMA and all its
subsidiary acts. Natural Scientific Professions Act, Public Service Act,
Computer literacy and skills; Good writing and communication skills;
Knowledge of Public Service Regulations. A valid driver’s licence is required.
DUTIES : Provide environmental enforcement services. Conduct enforcement promotion
awareness processes in the district. Perform and manage administrative and
related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za/ for attention Mr. O.
Desi/ Mr. P. Makhele.
NOTE : Employment Equity target: Alfred Nzo Region: Coloured Male/PWD
Employment Equity target: Chris Hani Region: Indian Male/Coloured
Male/PWD
Employment Equity target: Joe Gqabi Region: White Female/PWD
Employment Equity target: O.R Tambo Region: Coloured Male/ Coloured
Female/PWD
Employment Equity target: Sarah Baartman Region: Coloured Female/PWD
POST 39/103 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER SPECIALISED PRODUCTION:
ENVIRONMENTAL EMPOWEREMENT SERVICES REF NO:
DEDEAT/2025/10/09
SALARY : R498 816 – R690 237 per annum, (OSD). Appropriate salary will be determined
according to the regulatory framework (based on OSD)
CENTRE : Chris Hani Region
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a Relevant Honours Degree (NQF 8) in
Environmental Management / Natural Sciences/ Nature Conservation/
Environmental Law and or /related qualification. Experience as per OSD
requirements; however, 1- 2 years’ experience will be an added advantage.
The following skills, knowledge and attributes are required: National
Environmental Management Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Service
Act, NEMBA, Computer literacy and skills; Good writing and communication
skills.
DUTIES : Participate in the implementation of environmental education programs to
assist with the integration of Environmental Education into formal education
structures (schools, SETA, ABET, higher education, etc.). Implement
environmental capacity-building programs for the general public and relevant
stakeholders. Promote and implement environmental awareness programs.
Perform and manage administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za/ for attention Mr. O.
Desi/ Mr. P. Makhele.
NOTE : Employment Equity Target: African Male
84
POST 39/104 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER SPECIALISED PRODUCTION:
BIODIVERSITY REF NO: DEDEAT/2025/10/10
SALARY : R498 816 – R690 237 per annum. Appropriate salary will be determined
according to the regulatory framework (based on OSD)
CENTRE : Chris Hani Region
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a Relevant Honours Degree (NQF L8) in
Environmental Management / Natural Sciences and or /related qualification.
Experience as per OSD requirements; however, 1-2 years’ experience will be
an added advantage. A valid driver’s licence is required. The following skills,
knowledge and attributes are required: National Environmental Management
Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act, NEMBA, Computer literacy
and skills; Good writing and communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide specialised technical support and input with the development,
maintenance and implementation of the district’s biodiversity management
plan. Provide specialised technical advisory services to ensure institutional and
development compliance with coastal management legislation. Evaluate
complex biodiversity and Coastal Zone authorisation applications and
supervise compliance adjudication processes. Provide specialised technical
and procedural biodiversity and Coastal Zone advisory services within the area
of operation. Perform administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za/ for attention Mr. O.
Desi/ Mr. P. Makhele.
NOTE : Employment Equity Target: Coloured Male
POST 39/105 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A: BIODIVERSITY (X5
POSTS)
SALARY : R343 842 – R380 145 per annum, (OSD). Appropriate salary will be determined
according to the regulatory framework (based on OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo Region Ref No: DEDEAT/2025/10/11
Sarah Baartman Region Ref No: DEDEAT/2025/10/12 (X2 Posts)
Chris Hani Region Ref No: DEDEAT/2025/10/13 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma (NQF level 6) in
Environmental Management/Natural Sciences. No experience as per OSD
requirements; however, 1-2 years’ relevant experience will be an added
advantage. Extensive knowledge and understanding of applicable related
policies and regulations pertaining to Environmental Management. Knowledge
and experience in Community-Based Natural Resource and Biological
Diversity Management. The following skills, knowledge and attributes are
required: Computer literacy, good writing and communication skills; Knowledge
of applicable environmental legislation (National Environmental Management
Act, NEM Protected Areas Act, NEM Biodiversity Act). Valid driver’s licence is
required.
DUTIES : Provide technical assistance with the development and implementation of the
district’s biodiversity management plan in line with provincial policy, norms, and
standard imperatives. Evaluate biodiversity authorisation applications and
conduct compliance adjudication processes. Provide technical and procedural
biodiversity advisory services within the area of operation. Perform and
manage administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za/ for attention Mr. O.
Desi/ Mr. P. Makhele.
NOTE : Employment Equity target: O.R. Tambo: African Female/PWD
Employment Equity target: Chris Hani: White Female/PWD
Employment Equity target: Sarah Baartman: African Male, Coloured
Male/PWD
POST 39/106 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A: COASTAL ZONE
MANAGEMENT REF NO: DEDEAT/2025/10/14
SALARY : R343 842 – R380 145 per annum, (OSD). Appropriate salary will be determined
according to the regulatory framework (based on OSD)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo Region
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma (NQF level 6) in
Environmental Management/Natural Sciences. No experience as per OSD
85
requirements; however, 1-2 years’ relevant experience will be an added
advantage. Extensive knowledge and understanding of applicable related
policies and regulations pertaining to Environmental Management. Knowledge
and experience in Community-Based Natural Resource and Biological
Diversity Management. The following skills, knowledge and attributes are
required: Computer literacy, good writing and communication skills; Knowledge
of applicable environmental legislation (National Environmental Management
Act, NEM Protected Areas Act, NEM Biodiversity Act). A valid driver’s licence
is required.
DUTIES : Provide technical support and advisory services to ensure institutional and
development compliance with coastal management legislation, norms and
standards. Evaluate coastal authorisation applications and perform compliance
adjudication processes. Provide technical and procedural coastal management
and utilisation advisory services within the area of operation. Implement
Special Programs. Perform and manage administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za/ for attention Mr. O.
Desi/ Mr. P. Makhele.
NOTE : Employment Equity target: African Male/PWD
POST 39/107 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A: CLIMATE CHANGE
REF NO: DEDEAT/2025/10/15 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R343 842 – R380 145 per annum, (OSD). Appropriate salary will be determined
according to the regulatory framework (based on OSD)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a relevant national diploma (NQF level 6) or
equivalent qualification in Natural Sciences/Environmental
Management/Nature Conservation/Environmental Law/Climate Change or
Renewable Energy Studies. No experience is required as per OSD provisions;
however, 1–2 years’ relevant experience in a climate change or related field
will be an added advantage. The following skills, knowledge and attributes are
required: Knowledge of Environmental legislation (National Environmental
Management Act, Climate Change Act, NEMBA, Environmental Impact
Assessment Regulations, etc.), Public sector frameworks (Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulations, PFMA). Skills and competencies: Sound
communication, reporting and coordination skills, with good writing ability.
Computer literacy. A valid driver’s licence is required.
DUTIES : Provide technical support with the coordination of integrated climate change
management planning and development practices. Provide technical support
with the development and maintenance of integrated climate change
management policy, legislation and regulations. Provide technical support with
the implementation of climate change management-related policies and
regulations, monitor, evaluate and report on the impact thereof. Technically
support the development and maintenance of an integrated climate change
information management system. Perform and manage administrative and
related functions
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za/ for attention Mr. O.
Desi/ Mr. P. Makhele.
NOTE : Employment Equity target: White Male, African Male/PWD
POST 39/108 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A: ENVIRONMENTAL
EMPOWERMENT SERVICES (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R343 842 – R380 145 per annum, (OSD). Appropriate salary will be determined
according to the regulatory framework (based on OSD)
CENTRE : Chris Hani Region Ref No: DEDEAT/2025/10/16 (X2 Posts)
Joe Gqabi Region Ref No: DEDEAT/2025/10/17
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma (NQF level 6) in
Environmental Management/Natural Sciences/ Nature Conservation and/or
any relevant qualification No experience as per OSD requirements; however,
1-2 years’ relevant experience will be an added advantage. The following skills,
knowledge and attributes are required: Knowledge of and experience in
Community-based Natural Resource and Biological Diversity Management;
Computer literacy and skills; Good writing and communication skills;
Knowledge of applicable environmental legislation (National Environmental
86
Management Act, NEM Protected Areas Act). A valid driver’s licence is
required.
DUTIES : Implement environmental empowerment programmes to facilitate the
integration of environmental education into formal education structures
(schools, institutions of higher learning, etc.) Identify and implement
environmental capacity-building programs for the general public and relevant
stakeholders. Promote and implement environmental awareness programmes
Perform and manage administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za/ for attention Mr. O.
Desi/ Mr. P. Makhele.
NOTE : Employment Equity target: Chris Hani African Female/PWD
Employment Equity target: Joe Gqabi African Male/PWD
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted only via the provincial e-Recruitment system
available at: https://ecprov.gov.za (under Careers) and/or at
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za. The system is available 24/7 throughout,
and closes at 23:59 on the closing date. To report any challenges pertaining
e-Recruitment System, send an email with your ID Number, your profile e-
Mail Address and the details of the issue to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za. Do not submit any CVs to this
email address; should you do so, your application will be regarded as lost and
will not be considered. No Hand-Delivered/ No Emailed / No Faxed / No
Posted applications will be accepted.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
OTHER POSTS
POST 39/109 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR GRADE 1 (HAST) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/CPC/ANZO/S16/01/10/2025 (X3 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R549 192 – R629 121 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as Professional Nurse. (This dispensation is only applicable to posts
of Clinical Programme Coordinator where it is an inherent requirement of the
post incumbent to Maintain registration with the SANC). Registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing.
DUTIES : Provide program, technical, and clinical support to sub-structure, District
hospitals and PHC teams to implement in the district in line with strategic plans.
Support Community Orientated Primary Care (COPC) and Population Hubs
initiatives aligned with the 2030 vision. Analyze HIV and TB data to strengthen
and monitor HAST programs. Deliver in-service training on annual registers,
indicators, and relevant stationery. Conduct clinical support visits, audits, and
assist internal compliance for General Auditor preparations. Develop SOPs
and support Quality Improvement Plans (QIPs) to enhance HAST services.
Monitor and evaluate program goals, including IPC, staff wellness,
HIV/AIDS/STI/TB, mental health, chronic disease management, and Ideal
Clinic status. Lead health and wellness events and foster partnerships with
community stakeholders and NPOs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Praim Tel No: (039) 797 6070 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/110 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR GRADE 1 (HAST) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/CPC/AMA/S16/02/10/2025 (X4 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R549 192 – R629 121 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Amathole District
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council
87
(SANC) as Professional Nurse. (This dispensation is only applicable to posts
of Clinical Programme Coordinator where it is an inherent requirement of the
post incumbent to Maintain registration with the SANC). Registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing.
DUTIES : Provide program, technical, and clinical support to sub-structure, District
hospitals and PHC teams to implement in the district in line with strategic plans.
Support Community Orientated Primary Care (COPC) and Population Hubs
initiatives aligned with the 2030 vision. Analyze HIV and TB data to strengthen
and monitor HAST programs. Deliver in-service training on annual registers,
indicators, and relevant stationery. Conduct clinical support visits, audits, and
assist internal compliance for General Auditor preparations. Develop SOPs
and support Quality Improvement Plans (QIPs) to enhance HAST services.
Monitor and evaluate program goals, including IPC, staff wellness,
HIV/AIDS/STI/TB, mental health, chronic disease management, and Ideal
Clinic status. Lead health and wellness events and foster partnerships with
community stakeholders and NPOs.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Njokweni Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/111 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR GRADE 1 (HAST) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/CPC/BCM/S16/03/10/2025 (X3 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R549 192 – R629 121 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro District
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as Professional Nurse. (This dispensation is only applicable to posts
of Clinical Programme Coordinator where it is an inherent requirement of the
post incumbent to Maintain registration with the SANC). Registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing.
DUTIES : Provide program, technical, and clinical support to sub-structure, District
hospitals and PHC teams to implement in the district in line with strategic plans.
Support Community Orientated Primary Care (COPC) and Population Hubs
initiatives aligned with the 2030 vision. Analyze HIV and TB data to strengthen
and monitor HAST programs. Deliver in-service training on annual registers,
indicators, and relevant stationery. Conduct clinical support visits, audits, and
assist internal compliance for General Auditor preparations. Develop SOPs
and support Quality Improvement Plans (QIPs) to enhance HAST services.
Monitor and evaluate program goals, including IPC, staff wellness,
HIV/AIDS/STI/TB, mental health, chronic disease management, and Ideal
Clinic status. Lead health and wellness events and foster partnerships with
community stakeholders and NPOs.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Jaceni Tel No: (043) 7433 006/057 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/112 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR GRADE 1 (HAST) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/CPC/CH/S16/04/10/2025 (X4 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R549 192 – R629 121 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as Professional Nurse. (This dispensation is only applicable to posts
of Clinical Programme Coordinator where it is an inherent requirement of the
post incumbent to Maintain registration with the SANC). Registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing.
DUTIES : Provide program, technical, and clinical support to sub-structure, District
hospitals and PHC teams to implement in the district in line with strategic plans.
Support Community Orientated Primary Care (COPC) and Population Hubs
88
initiatives aligned with the 2030 vision. Analyze HIV and TB data to strengthen
and monitor HAST programs. Deliver in-service training on annual registers,
indicators, and relevant stationery. Conduct clinical support visits, audits, and
assist internal compliance for General Auditor preparations. Develop SOPs
and support Quality Improvement Plans (QIPs) to enhance HAST services.
Monitor and evaluate program goals, including IPC, staff wellness,
HIV/AIDS/STI/TB, mental health, chronic disease management, and Ideal
Clinic status. Lead health and wellness events and foster partnerships with
community stakeholders and NPOs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Solomane Tel No: (045) 8071110/1101 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/113 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR GRADE 1 (HAST) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/CPC/JGQ/S16/05/10/2025 (X3 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R549 192 – R629 121 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi District
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as Professional Nurse. (This dispensation is only applicable to posts
of Clinical Programme Coordinator where it is an inherent requirement of the
post incumbent to Maintain registration with the SANC). Registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing.
DUTIES : Provide program, technical, and clinical support to sub-structure, District
hospitals and PHC teams to implement in the district in line with strategic plans.
Support Community Orientated Primary Care (COPC) and Population Hubs
initiatives aligned with the 2030 vision. Analyze HIV and TB data to strengthen
and monitor HAST programs. Deliver in-service training on annual registers,
indicators, and relevant stationery. Conduct clinical support visits, audits, and
assist internal compliance for General Auditor preparations. Develop SOPs
and support Quality Improvement Plans (QIPs) to enhance HAST services.
Monitor and evaluate program goals, including IPC, staff wellness,
HIV/AIDS/STI/TB, mental health, chronic disease management, and Ideal
Clinic status. Lead health and wellness events and foster partnerships with
community stakeholders and NPOs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JS Ndzinde Tel No: (051) 633 9631 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/114 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR GRADE 1 (HAST) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/CPC/NMM/S16/06/10/2025 (X3 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R549 192 – R629 121 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro District
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as Professional Nurse. (This dispensation is only applicable to posts
of Clinical Programme Coordinator where it is an inherent requirement of the
post incumbent to Maintain registration with the SANC). Registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing.
DUTIES : Provide program, technical, and clinical support to sub-structure, District
hospitals and PHC teams to implement in the district in line with strategic plans.
Support Community Orientated Primary Care (COPC) and Population Hubs
initiatives aligned with the 2030 vision. Analyse HIV and TB data to strengthen
and monitor HAST programs. Deliver in-service training on annual registers,
indicators, and relevant stationery. Conduct clinical support visits, audits, and
assist internal compliance for General Auditor preparations. Develop SOPs
and support Quality Improvement Plans (QIPs) to enhance HAST services.
Monitor and evaluate program goals, including IPC, staff wellness,
HIV/AIDS/STI/TB, mental health, chronic disease management, and Ideal
Clinic status. Lead health and wellness events and foster partnerships with
community stakeholders and NPOs.
89
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Davids Tel No: (041) 391 8164 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/115 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR GRADE 1 (HAST) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/CPC/ORT/S16/07/10/2025 (X4 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R549 192 – R629 121 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as Professional Nurse. (This dispensation is only applicable to posts
of Clinical Programme Coordinator where it is an inherent requirement of the
post incumbent to Maintain registration with the SANC). Registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing.
DUTIES : Provide program, technical, and clinical support to sub-structure, District
hospitals and PHC teams to implement in the district in line with strategic plans.
Support Community Orientated Primary Care (COPC) and Population Hubs
initiatives aligned with the 2030 vision. Analyze HIV and TB data to strengthen
and monitor HAST programs. Deliver in-service training on annual registers,
indicators, and relevant stationery. Conduct clinical support visits, audits, and
assist internal compliance for General Auditor preparations. Develop SOPs
and support Quality Improvement Plans (QIPs) to enhance HAST services.
Monitor and evaluate program goals, including IPC, staff wellness,
HIV/AIDS/STI/TB, mental health, chronic disease management, and Ideal
Clinic status. Lead health and wellness events and foster partnerships with
community stakeholders and NPOs.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Sokutu Tel No: (047) 502 9000 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/116 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR GRADE 1 (HAST) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/CPC/SB/S16/08/10/2025 (X3 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R549 192 – R629 121 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as Professional Nurse. (This dispensation is only applicable to posts
of Clinical Programme Coordinator where it is an inherent requirement of the
post incumbent to Maintain registration with the SANC). Registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing.
DUTIES : Provide program, technical, and clinical support to sub-structure, District
hospitals and PHC teams to implement in the district in line with strategic plans.
Support Community Orientated Primary Care (COPC) and Population Hubs
initiatives aligned with the 2030 vision. Analyze HIV and TB data to strengthen
and monitor HAST programs. Deliver in-service training on annual registers,
indicators, and relevant stationery. Conduct clinical support visits, audits, and
assist internal compliance for General Auditor preparations. Develop SOPs
and support Quality Improvement Plans (QIPs) to enhance HAST services.
Monitor and evaluate program goals, including IPC, staff wellness,
HIV/AIDS/STI/TB, mental health, chronic disease management, and Ideal
Clinic status. Lead health and wellness events and foster partnerships with
community stakeholders and NPOs.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Sokutu Tel No: (047) 502 9000 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/117 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GENERAL GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/PNG/ANZO/S16/09/10/2025 (X18 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 - R382 107 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R396 132 - R466 623 per annum, (OSD)
90
Grade 3: R476 367 - R610 662 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/Diploma) in Nursing or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Proof of current registration. Grade 1: No experience required, Grade 2:
Minimum of ten (10) years appropriate/recognisable experience in Nursing
after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Grade 3: Minimum of twenty (20) years appropriate/ recognisable experience
in Nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing.
DUTIES : Execute duties and functions with proficiency within prescripts of the applicable
legislation. Provide safe therapeutic environment. Monitor patient activities.
Perform standard procedures in terms of policies and safe therapeutic
environment. Monitor patient activities. Perform standard procedures in terms
of policies and procedures. Adopt multidisciplinary approach to promote holistic
patient/client care. Maintain clinical competence by ensuring that scientific
principles of nursing care are implemented. Maintain accurate and complete
patient records. Maintain client satisfaction through quality service innovation
and professional nursing care by upholding the Batho Pele principles and
patient’s rights. To ensure efficient and effective utilisation of resources. Render
quality nursing care to patients to take overall management of the unit in the
absence of the Operational Manager. Evaluate staff performance adhering to
the set standards of the (EPMDS). Motivate, couch and mentor staff.
Management and control of scheduled drugs. Required to work day and night
duty. Any other duties as required by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Praim Tel No: (039) 797 6070 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/118 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GENERAL GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/PNG/AMA/S16/10/10/2025 (X19 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 - R382 107 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R396 132 - R466 623 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R476 367 - R610 662 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Amathole District
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/Diploma) in Nursing or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Proof of current registration. Grade 1: No experience required, Grade 2:
Minimum of ten (10) years appropriate / recognisable experience in Nursing
after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Grade 3: Minimum of twenty (20) years appropriate/ recognisable experience
in Nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing.
DUTIES : Execute duties and functions with proficiency within prescripts of the applicable
legislation. Provide safe therapeutic environment. Monitor patient activities.
Perform standard procedures in terms of policies and safe therapeutic
environment. Monitor patient activities. Perform standard procedures in terms
of policies and procedures. Adopt multidisciplinary approach to promote holistic
patient/client care. Maintain clinical competence by ensuring that scientific
principles of nursing care are implemented. Maintain accurate and complete
patient records. Maintain client satisfaction through quality service innovation
and professional nursing care by upholding the Batho Pele principles and
patient’s rights. To ensure efficient and effective utilisation of resources. Render
quality nursing care to patients to take overall management of the unit in the
absence of the Operational Manager. Evaluate staff performance adhering to
the set standards of the (EPMDS). Motivate, couch and mentor staff.
Management and control of scheduled drugs. Required to work day and night
duty. Any other duties as required by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Njokweni Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/119 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GENERAL GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/PNG/BCM/S16/11/10/2025 (X18 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 - R382 107 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R396 132 - R466 623 per annum, (OSD)
91
Grade 3: R476 367 - R610 662 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/Diploma) in Nursing or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Proof of current registration. Grade 1: No experience required, Grade 2:
Minimum of ten (10) years appropriate/recognisable experience in Nursing
after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Grade 3: Minimum of twenty (20) years appropriate/ recognisable experience
in Nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing.
DUTIES : Execute duties and functions with proficiency within prescripts of the applicable
legislation. Provide safe therapeutic environment. Monitor patient activities.
Perform standard procedures in terms of policies and safe therapeutic
environment. Monitor patient activities. Perform standard procedures in terms
of policies and procedures. Adopt multidisciplinary approach to promote holistic
patient/client care. Maintain clinical competence by ensuring that scientific
principles of nursing care are implemented. Maintain accurate and complete
patient records. Maintain client satisfaction through quality service innovation
and professional nursing care by upholding the Batho Pele principles and
patient’s rights. To ensure efficient and effective utilisation of resources. Render
quality nursing care to patients to take overall management of the unit in the
absence of the Operational Manager. Evaluate staff performance adhering to
the set standards of the (EPMDS). Motivate, couch and mentor staff.
Management and control of scheduled drugs. Required to work day and night
duty. Any other duties as required by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Jaceni Tel No: (043) 7433 006/057 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/120 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GENERAL GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/PNG/CH/S16/12/10/2025 (X19 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 - R382 107 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R396 132 - R466 623 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R476 367 - R610 662 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/Diploma) in Nursing or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Proof of current registration. Grade 1: No experience required, Grade 2:
Minimum of ten (10) years appropriate/recognisable experience in Nursing
after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Grade 3: Minimum of twenty (20) years appropriate/ recognisable experience
in Nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing.
DUTIES : Execute duties and functions with proficiency within prescripts of the applicable
legislation. Provide safe therapeutic environment. Monitor patient activities.
Perform standard procedures in terms of policies and safe therapeutic
environment. Monitor patient activities. Perform standard procedures in terms
of policies and procedures. Adopt multidisciplinary approach to promote holistic
patient/client care. Maintain clinical competence by ensuring that scientific
principles of nursing care are implemented. Maintain accurate and complete
patient records. Maintain client satisfaction through quality service innovation
and professional nursing care by upholding the Batho Pele principles and
patient’s rights. To ensure efficient and effective utilisation of resources. Render
quality nursing care to patients to take overall management of the unit in the
absence of the Operational Manager. Evaluate staff performance adhering to
the set standards of the (EPMDS). Motivate, couch and mentor staff.
Management and control of scheduled drugs. Required to work day and night
duty. Any other duties as required by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Solomane Tel No: (045) 807 1110/1101 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/121 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GENERAL GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/PNG/JGQ/S16/13/10/2025 (X18 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 - R382 107 per annum, (OSD)
92
Grade 2: R396 132 - R466 623 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R476 367 - R610 662 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi District
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/Diploma) in Nursing or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Proof of current registration. Grade 1: No experience required, Grade 2:
Minimum of ten (10) years appropriate / recognisable experience in Nursing
after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Grade 3: Minimum of twenty (20) years appropriate/ recognisable experience
in Nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing.
DUTIES : Execute duties and functions with proficiency within prescripts of the applicable
legislation. Provide safe therapeutic environment. Monitor patient activities.
Perform standard procedures in terms of policies and safe therapeutic
environment. Monitor patient activities. Perform standard procedures in terms
of policies and procedures. Adopt multidisciplinary approach to promote holistic
patient/client care. Maintain clinical competence by ensuring that scientific
principles of nursing care are implemented. Maintain accurate and complete
patient records. Maintain client satisfaction through quality service innovation
and professional nursing care by upholding the Batho Pele principles and
patient’s rights. To ensure efficient and effective utilisation of resources. Render
quality nursing care to patients to take overall management of the unit in the
absence of the Operational Manager. Evaluate staff performance adhering to
the set standards of the (EPMDS). Motivate, couch and mentor staff.
Management and control of scheduled drugs. Required to work day and night
duty. Any other duties as required by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JS Ndzinde Tel No: (051) 633 9631 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/122 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GENERAL GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/PNG/NMM/S16/14/10/2025 (X18 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 - R382 107 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R396 132 - R466 623 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R476 367 - R610 662 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/Diploma) in Nursing or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Proof of current registration. Grade 1: No experience required, Grade 2:
Minimum of ten (10) years appropriate / recognisable experience in Nursing
after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Grade 3: Minimum of twenty (20) years appropriate/ recognisable experience
in Nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing.
DUTIES : Execute duties and functions with proficiency within prescripts of the applicable
legislation. Provide safe therapeutic environment. Monitor patient activities.
Perform standard procedures in terms of policies and safe therapeutic
environment. Monitor patient activities. Perform standard procedures in terms
of policies and procedures. Adopt multidisciplinary approach to promote holistic
patient/client care. Maintain clinical competence by ensuring that scientific
principles of nursing care are implemented. Maintain accurate and complete
patient records. Maintain client satisfaction through quality service innovation
and professional nursing care by upholding the Batho Pele principles and
patient’s rights. To ensure efficient and effective utilisation of resources. Render
quality nursing care to patients to take overall management of the unit in the
absence of the Operational Manager. Evaluate staff performance adhering to
the set standards of the (EPMDS). Motivate, couch and mentor staff.
Management and control of scheduled drugs. Required to work day and night
duty. Any other duties as required by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Davids Tel No: (041) 391 8164 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
93
POST 39/123 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GENERAL GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/PNG/ORT/S16/15/10/2025 (X19 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 - R382 107 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R396 132 - R466 623 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R476 367 - R610 662 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/Diploma) in Nursing or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Proof of current registration. Grade 1: No experience required, Grade 2:
Minimum of ten (10) years appropriate / recognisable experience in Nursing
after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Grade 3: Minimum of twenty (20) years appropriate/ recognisable experience
in Nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing.
DUTIES : Execute duties and functions with proficiency within prescripts of the applicable
legislation. Provide safe therapeutic environment. Monitor patient activities.
Perform standard procedures in terms of policies and safe therapeutic
environment. Monitor patient activities. Perform standard procedures in terms
of policies and procedures. Adopt multidisciplinary approach to promote holistic
patient/client care. Maintain clinical competence by ensuring that scientific
principles of nursing care are implemented. Maintain accurate and complete
patient records. Maintain client satisfaction through quality service innovation
and professional nursing care by upholding the Batho Pele principles and
patient’s rights. To ensure efficient and effective utilisation of resources. Render
quality nursing care to patients to take overall management of the unit in the
absence of the Operational Manager. Evaluate staff performance adhering to
the set standards of the (EPMDS). Motivate, couch and mentor staff.
Management and control of scheduled drugs. Required to work day and night
duty. Any other duties as required by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Sokutu Tel No: (047) 502 9000 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/124 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GENERAL GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/PNG/SB/S16/16/10/2025 (X19 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 - R382 107 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R396 132 - R466 623 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R476 367 - R610 662 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/Diploma) in Nursing or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Proof of current registration. Grade 1: No experience required, Grade 2:
Minimum of ten (10) years appropriate / recognisable experience in Nursing
after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Grade 3: Minimum of twenty (20) years appropriate/ recognisable experience
in Nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing.
DUTIES : Execute duties and functions with proficiency within prescripts of the applicable
legislation. Provide safe therapeutic environment. Monitor patient activities.
Perform standard procedures in terms of policies and safe therapeutic
environment. Monitor patient activities. Perform standard procedures in terms
of policies and procedures. Adopt multidisciplinary approach to promote holistic
patient/client care. Maintain clinical competence by ensuring that scientific
principles of nursing care are implemented. Maintain accurate and complete
patient records. Maintain client satisfaction through quality service innovation
and professional nursing care by upholding the Batho Pele principles and
patient’s rights. To ensure efficient and effective utilisation of resources. Render
quality nursing care to patients to take overall management of the unit in the
absence of the Operational Manager. Evaluate staff performance adhering to
the set standards of the (EPMDS). Motivate, couch and mentor staff.
Management and control of scheduled drugs. Required to work day and night
duty. Any other duties as required by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Sulo Tel No: (041) 408 8509 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
94
POST 39/125 : INFORMATION OFFICER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/INFOFF/ANZO/S16/17/10/2025 (X3 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF Level 6) as recognized by
SAQA as in Information Management/ Public Administration or relevant
qualification coupled with 1- 2 years’ experience in information management or
Health Information. Knowledge of DHIS software, Tier.net. and EDR WEB.
Good computer skills especially Microsoft Excel, Word, Access, PowerPoint.
Familiarity with policies and principles of National Health Information Systems
in South Africa (NHISSA), DHMIS. Leadership and supervisory skills. A valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Compiling of HAST monthly report, quarterly and Dora data of facilities.
Maintaining and monitoring timeous submission of data and compile data
Quality Indices which measure Timeliness, Submission, Completeness
submission and quality. Provincial Tier Key Implementer and Tier.Net Provincial
Technical personnel, troubleshooting Tier.Net technical challenges and liaising
with NDoH. Provincial Health Information EDRWeb support personnel.
Assisting EDR sites with capturing challenges. Provincial Tier.Net and EDR
trainer. Training all stakeholders on the use of the systems. Assist in supporting
Districts and Sub-districts personnel with data related issues and ETR
technical problems. Assist with management of data, identifying outliers,
missing and incorrectly reported data. Data analysis of all HAST programs.
Assisting facilities readiness for Audit. Strengthening implementation, use and
adherence of Standard Operating Procedures. Assist in giving feedback on
analysed data and reports to Districts on a regular basis. Measure indicators
against set targets. Monitoring of Tier Progress on a monthly basis at district
and facility level. Assist in compiling Pre-Submission report addressing data
quality issues from Districts monthly. Assist in communicating with Districts and
Sub-Districts on trainings and feedback of trainings conducted by the Provincial
office. Coordinating of meetings and trainings on data management issues.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Praim Tel No: (039) 797 6070 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/126 : INFORMATION OFFICER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/INFOFF/AMA/S16/18/10/2025 (X3 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Amathole District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF Level 6) as recognized by
SAQA as in Information Management/ Public Administration or relevant
qualification coupled with 1- 2 years’ experience in information management or
Health Information. Knowledge of DHIS software, Tier.net. and EDR WEB.
Good computer skills especially Microsoft Excel, Word, Access, PowerPoint.
Familiarity with policies and principles of National Health Information Systems
in South Africa (NHISSA), DHMIS. Leadership and supervisory skills. A valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Compiling of HAST monthly report, quarterly and Dora data of facilities.
Maintaining and monitoring timeous submission of data and compile data
Quality Indices which measure Timeliness, Submission, Completeness
submission and quality. Provincial Tier Key Implementer and Tier.Net Provincial
Technical personnel, troubleshooting Tier.Net technical challenges and liaising
with NDoH. Provincial Health Information EDRWeb support personnel.
Assisting EDR sites with capturing challenges. Provincial Tier.Net and EDR
trainer. Training all stakeholders on the use of the systems. Assist in supporting
Districts and Sub-districts personnel with data related issues and ETR
technical problems. Assist with management of data, identifying outliers,
missing and incorrectly reported data. Data analysis of all HAST programs.
Assisting facilities readiness for Audit. Strengthening implementation, use and
adherence of Standard Operating Procedures. Assist in giving feedback on
analysed data and reports to Districts on a regular basis. Measure indicators
against set targets. Monitoring of Tier Progress on a monthly basis at district
and facility level. Assist in compiling Pre-Submission report addressing data
95
quality issues from Districts monthly. Assist in communicating with Districts and
Sub-Districts on trainings and feedback of trainings conducted by the Provincial
office. Coordinating of meetings and trainings on data management issues.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Njokweni Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/127 : INFORMATION OFFICER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/INFOFF/BCM/S16/19/10/2025 (X2 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF Level 6) as recognized by
SAQA as in Information Management/ Public Administration or relevant
qualification coupled with 1- 2 years’ experience in information management or
Health Information. Knowledge of DHIS software, Tier.net. and EDR WEB.
Good computer skills especially Microsoft Excel, Word, Access, PowerPoint.
Familiarity with policies and principles of National Health Information Systems
in South Africa (NHISSA), DHMIS. Leadership and supervisory skills. A valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Compiling of HAST monthly report, quarterly and Dora data of facilities.
Maintaining and monitoring timeous submission of data and compile data
Quality Indices which measure Timeliness, Submission, Completeness
submission and quality. Provincial Tier Key Implementer and Tier.Net Provincial
Technical personnel, troubleshooting Tier.Net technical challenges and liaising
with NDoH. Provincial Health Information EDRWeb support personnel.
Assisting EDR sites with capturing challenges. Provincial Tier.Net and EDR
trainer. Training all stakeholders on the use of the systems. Assist in supporting
Districts and Sub-districts personnel with data related issues and ETR
technical problems. Assist with management of data, identifying outliers,
missing and incorrectly reported data. Data analysis of all HAST programs.
Assisting facilities readiness for Audit. Strengthening implementation, use and
adherence of Standard Operating Procedures. Assist in giving feedback on
analysed data and reports to Districts on a regular basis. Measure indicators
against set targets. Monitoring of Tier Progress on a monthly basis at district
and facility level. Assist in compiling Pre-Submission report addressing data
quality issues from Districts monthly. Assist in communicating with Districts and
Sub-Districts on trainings and feedback of trainings conducted by the Provincial
office. Coordinating of meetings and trainings on data management issues.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Jaceni Tel No: (043) 7433 006/057 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/128 : INFORMATION OFFICER REF NO: ECHEALTH/INFOFF/CH/S16/20/10/2025
(X2 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF Level 6) as recognized by
SAQA as in Information Management/ Public Administration or relevant
qualification coupled with 1- 2 years’ experience in information management or
Health Information. Knowledge of DHIS software, Tier.net. and EDR WEB.
Good computer skills especially Microsoft Excel, Word, Access, PowerPoint.
Familiarity with policies and principles of National Health Information Systems
in South Africa (NHISSA), DHMIS. Leadership and supervisory skills. A valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Compiling of HAST monthly report, quarterly and Dora data of facilities.
Maintaining and monitoring timeous submission of data and compile data
Quality Indices which measure Timeliness, Submission, Completeness
submission and quality. Provincial Tier Key Implementer and Tier.Net Provincial
Technical personnel, troubleshooting Tier.Net technical challenges and liaising
with NDoH. Provincial Health Information EDRWeb support personnel.
Assisting EDR sites with capturing challenges. Provincial Tier.Net and EDR
trainer. Training all stakeholders on the use of the systems. Assist in supporting
Districts and Sub-districts personnel with data related issues and ETR
technical problems. Assist with management of data, identifying outliers,
missing and incorrectly reported data. Data analysis of all HAST programs.
96
Assisting facilities readiness for Audit. Strengthening implementation, use and
adherence of Standard Operating Procedures. Assist in giving feedback on
analysed data and reports to Districts on a regular basis. Measure indicators
against set targets. Monitoring of Tier Progress on a monthly basis at district
and facility level. Assist in compiling Pre-Submission report addressing data
quality issues from Districts monthly. Assist in communicating with Districts and
Sub-Districts on trainings and feedback of trainings conducted by the Provincial
office. Coordinating of meetings and trainings on data management issues.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Solomane Tel No: (045) 807 1110/1101 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/129 : INFORMATION OFFICER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/INFOFF/JGQ/S16/21/10/2025 (X2 POSTS)
5 months contract
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF Level 6) as recognized by
SAQA as in Information Management/ Public Administration or relevant
qualification coupled with 1- 2 years’ experience in information management or
Health Information. Knowledge of DHIS software, Tier.net. and EDR WEB.
Good computer skills especially Microsoft Excel, Word, Access, PowerPoint.
Familiarity with policies and principles of National Health Information Systems
in South Africa (NHISSA), DHMIS. Leadership and supervisory skills. A valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Compiling of HAST monthly report, quarterly and Dora data of facilities.
Maintaining and monitoring timeous submission of data and compile data
Quality Indices which measure Timeliness, Submission, Completeness
submission and quality. Provincial Tier Key Implementer and Tier.Net Provincial
Technical personnel, troubleshooting Tier.Net technical challenges and liaising
with NDoH. Provincial Health Information EDRWeb support personnel.
Assisting EDR sites with capturing challenges. Provincial Tier.Net and EDR
trainer. Training all stakeholders on the use of the systems. Assist in supporting
Districts and Sub-districts personnel with data related issues and ETR
technical problems. Assist with management of data, identifying outliers,
missing and incorrectly reported data. Data analysis of all HAST programs.
Assisting facilities readiness for Audit. Strengthening implementation, use and
adherence of Standard Operating Procedures. Assist in giving feedback on
analysed data and reports to Districts on a regular basis. Measure indicators
against set targets. Monitoring of Tier Progress on a monthly basis at district
and facility level. Assist in compiling Pre-Submission report addressing data
quality issues from Districts monthly. Assist in communicating with Districts and
Sub-Districts on trainings and feedback of trainings conducted by the Provincial
office. Coordinating of meetings and trainings on data management issues.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JS Ndzinde Tel No: (051) 633 9631 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/130 : INFORMATION OFFICER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/INFOFF/NMM/S16/22/10/2025 (X2 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF Level 6) as recognized by
SAQA as in Information Management/ Public Administration or relevant
qualification coupled with 1- 2 years’ experience in information management or
Health Information. Knowledge of DHIS software, Tier.net. and EDR WEB.
Good computer skills especially Microsoft Excel, Word, Access, PowerPoint.
Familiarity with policies and principles of National Health Information Systems
in South Africa (NHISSA), DHMIS. Leadership and supervisory skills. A valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Compiling of HAST monthly report, quarterly and Dora data of facilities.
Maintaining and monitoring timeous submission of data and compile data
Quality Indices which measure Timeliness, Submission, Completeness
submission and quality. Provincial Tier Key Implementer and Tier.Net Provincial
Technical personnel, troubleshooting Tier.Net technical challenges and liaising
with NDoH. Provincial Health Information EDRWeb support personnel.
97
Assisting EDR sites with capturing challenges. Provincial Tier.Net and EDR
trainer. Training all stakeholders on the use of the systems. Assist in supporting
Districts and Sub-districts personnel with data related issues and ETR
technical problems. Assist with management of data, identifying outliers,
missing and incorrectly reported data. Data analysis of all HAST programs.
Assisting facilities readiness for Audit. Strengthening implementation, use and
adherence of Standard Operating Procedures. Assist in giving feedback on
analysed data and reports to Districts on a regular basis. Measure indicators
against set targets. Monitoring of Tier Progress on a monthly basis at district
and facility level. Assist in compiling Pre-Submission report addressing data
quality issues from Districts monthly. Assist in communicating with Districts and
Sub-Districts on trainings and feedback of trainings conducted by the Provincial
office. Coordinating of meetings and trainings on data management issues.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Davids Tel No: (041) 391 8164 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/131 : INFORMATION OFFICER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/INFOFF/ORT/S16/23/10/2025 (X3 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF Level 6) as recognized by
SAQA as in Information Management/ Public Administration or relevant
qualification coupled with 1- 2 years’ experience in information management or
Health Information. Knowledge of DHIS software, Tier.net. and EDR WEB.
Good computer skills especially Microsoft Excel, Word, Access, PowerPoint.
Familiarity with policies and principles of National Health Information Systems
in South Africa (NHISSA), DHMIS. Leadership and supervisory skills. A valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Compiling of HAST monthly report, quarterly and Dora data of facilities.
Maintaining and monitoring timeous submission of data and compile data
Quality Indices which measure Timeliness, Submission, Completeness
submission and quality. Provincial Tier Key Implementer and Tier.Net Provincial
Technical personnel, troubleshooting Tier.Net technical challenges and liaising
with NDoH. Provincial Health Information EDRWeb support personnel.
Assisting EDR sites with capturing challenges. Provincial Tier.Net and EDR
trainer. Training all stakeholders on the use of the systems. Assist in supporting
Districts and Sub-districts personnel with data related issues and ETR
technical problems. Assist with management of data, identifying outliers,
missing and incorrectly reported data. Data analysis of all HAST programs.
Assisting facilities readiness for Audit. Strengthening implementation, use and
adherence of Standard Operating Procedures. Assist in giving feedback on
analysed data and reports to Districts on a regular basis. Measure indicators
against set targets. Monitoring of Tier Progress on a monthly basis at district
and facility level. Assist in compiling Pre-Submission report addressing data
quality issues from Districts monthly. Assist in communicating with Districts and
Sub-Districts on trainings and feedback of trainings conducted by the Provincial
office. Coordinating of meetings and trainings on data management issues.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Sokutu Tel No: (047) 502 9000 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/132 : INFORMATION OFFICER REF NO: ECHEALTH/INFOFF/SB/S16/24/10/2025
(X3 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF Level 6) as recognized by
SAQA as in Information Management/ Public Administration or relevant
qualification coupled with 1- 2 years’ experience in information management or
Health Information. Knowledge of DHIS software, Tier.net. and EDR WEB.
Good computer skills especially Microsoft Excel, Word, Access, PowerPoint.
Familiarity with policies and principles of National Health Information Systems
in South Africa (NHISSA), DHMIS. Leadership and supervisory skills. A valid
driver’s licence.
98
DUTIES : Compiling of HAST monthly report, quarterly and Dora data of facilities.
Maintaining and monitoring timeous submission of data and compile data
Quality Indices which measure Timeliness, Submission, Completeness
submission and quality. Provincial Tier Key Implementer and Tier.Net Provincial
Technical personnel, troubleshooting Tier.Net technical challenges and liaising
with NDoH. Provincial Health Information EDRWeb support personnel.
Assisting EDR sites with capturing challenges. Provincial Tier.Net and EDR
trainer. Training all stakeholders on the use of the systems. Assist in supporting
Districts and Sub-districts personnel with data related issues and ETR
technical problems. Assist with management of data, identifying outliers,
missing and incorrectly reported data. Data analysis of all HAST programs.
Assisting facilities readiness for Audit. Strengthening implementation, use and
adherence of Standard Operating Procedures. Assist in giving feedback on
analysed data and reports to Districts on a regular basis. Measure indicators
against set targets. Monitoring of Tier Progress on a monthly basis at district
and facility level. Assist in compiling Pre-Submission report addressing data
quality issues from Districts monthly. Assist in communicating with Districts and
Sub-Districts on trainings and feedback of trainings conducted by the Provincial
office. Coordinating of meetings and trainings on data management issues.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Sulo Tel No: (041) 408 8509 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/133 : INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PRACTITIONER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ITP/ANZO/S16/25/10/2025 (X4 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF Level 6) as recognized by
SAQA in Information Technology/Computer Science with 1 -2 years’
experience in the field. Sound technical knowledge and experience of the
following is strongly recommended: PC repairs, printer repairs, router
configuration, LAN switching, network protocols. Technical problem-solving
skills, knowledge of Microsoft Products (Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange).
Knowledge of configuring and managing printers and multi-function machines.
Knowledge of desktop and infrastructure (server, switches, networks and
cabling) environment Exchange Server Administration and TCP/ICP
(Networking) and 802.11 (wireless) experience will be an advantage. Good
interpersonal skills with strong service orientation and the ability to work under
pressure. Solve problems by applying innovative thinking and encouraging a
lateral approach. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Repair of computer equipment e.g. servers, pc’s and printers. Installation,
configuration and support of network servers, computer equipment and
computer applications. Be able to access the IT environment and write a report.
Support the ECDOH transversal applications. Providing software and
application support to end users. Coordinate support on office automation
services such as telephone systems, copiers, faxes and cellular phones etc.
Overseeing and Mentoring of IT interns. Manage Information Technology
Services by Monitoring local area networks performance. Render 1st line
technical support to users on transversal systems and network applications.
Maintain and monitor all incidents logged through a call logging system. Offer
a prompt support to all District facilities with NDOH Systems applications.
Oversee and Monitor District ICT projects, Monitor daily, weekly and monthly
the information Security (Anti-Virus, Backup Solution), liaise with users on
request for IT requirements. Create/maintain inventory of all desktop and
network related equipment. Facilitate ICT awareness sessions and promote
ICT policy adherence to all users.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Praim Tel No: (039) 797 6070 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/134 : INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PRACTITIONER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ITP/AMA/S16/26/10/2025 (X4 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Amathole District
99
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF Level 6) as recognized by
SAQA in Information Technology/Computer Science with 1 -2 years’
experience in the field. Sound technical knowledge and experience of the
following is strongly recommended: PC repairs, printer repairs, router
configuration, LAN switching, network protocols. Technical problem-solving
skills, knowledge of Microsoft Products (Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange).
Knowledge of configuring and managing printers and multi-function machines.
Knowledge of desktop and infrastructure (server, switches, networks and
cabling) environment Exchange Server Administration and TCP/ICP
(Networking) and 802.11 (wireless) experience will be an advantage. Good
interpersonal skills with strong service orientation and the ability to work under
pressure. Solve problems by applying innovative thinking and encouraging a
lateral approach. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Repair of computer equipment e.g. servers, pc’s and printers. Installation,
configuration and support of network servers, computer equipment and
computer applications. Be able to access the IT environment and write a report.
Support the ECDOH transversal applications. Providing software and
application support to end users. Coordinate support on office automation
services such as telephone systems, copiers, faxes and cellular phones etc.
Overseeing and Mentoring of IT interns. Manage Information Technology
Services by Monitoring local area networks performance. Render 1st line
technical support to users on transversal systems and network applications.
Maintain and monitor all incidents logged through a call logging system. Offer
a prompt support to all District facilities with NDOH Systems applications.
Oversee and Monitor District ICT projects, Monitor daily, weekly and monthly
the information Security (Anti-Virus, Backup Solution), liaise with users on
request for IT requirements. Create/maintain inventory of all desktop and
network related equipment. Facilitate ICT awareness sessions and promote
ICT policy adherence to all users.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Njokweni Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/135 : INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PRACTITIONER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ITP/BCM/S16/27/10/2025 (X4 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF Level 6) as recognized by
SAQA in Information Technology/Computer Science with 1 -2 years’
experience in the field. Sound technical knowledge and experience of the
following is strongly recommended: PC repairs, printer repairs, router
configuration, LAN switching, network protocols. Technical problem-solving
skills, knowledge of Microsoft Products (Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange).
Knowledge of configuring and managing printers and multi-function machines.
Knowledge of desktop and infrastructure (server, switches, networks and
cabling) environment Exchange Server Administration and TCP/ICP
(Networking) and 802.11 (wireless) experience will be an advantage. Good
interpersonal skills with strong service orientation and the ability to work under
pressure. Solve problems by applying innovative thinking and encouraging a
lateral approach. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Repair of computer equipment e.g. servers, pc’s and printers. Installation,
configuration and support of network servers, computer equipment and
computer applications. Be able to access the IT environment and write a report.
Support the ECDOH transversal applications. Providing software and
application support to end users. Coordinate support on office automation
services such as telephone systems, copiers, faxes and cellular phones etc.
Overseeing and Mentoring of IT interns. Manage Information Technology
Services by Monitoring local area networks performance. Render 1st line
technical support to users on transversal systems and network applications.
Maintain and monitor all incidents logged through a call logging system. Offer
a prompt support to all District facilities with NDOH Systems applications.
Oversee and Monitor District ICT projects, Monitor daily, weekly and monthly
the information Security (Anti-Virus, Backup Solution), liaise with users on
request for IT requirements. Create/maintain inventory of all desktop and
network related equipment. Facilitate ICT awareness sessions and promote
ICT policy adherence to all users.
100
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Jaceni Tel No: (043) 7433 006/057 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/136 : INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PRACTITIONER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ITP/CH/S16/28/10/2025 (X4 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF Level 6) as recognized by
SAQA in Information Technology/Computer Science with 1 -2 years’
experience in the field. Sound technical knowledge and experience of the
following is strongly recommended: PC repairs, printer repairs, router
configuration, LAN switching, network protocols. Technical problem-solving
skills, knowledge of Microsoft Products (Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange).
Knowledge of configuring and managing printers and multi-function machines.
Knowledge of desktop and infrastructure (server, switches, networks and
cabling) environment Exchange Server Administration and TCP/ICP
(Networking) and 802.11 (wireless) experience will be an advantage. Good
interpersonal skills with strong service orientation and the ability to work under
pressure. Solve problems by applying innovative thinking and encouraging a
lateral approach. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Repair of computer equipment e.g. servers, pc’s and printers. Installation,
configuration and support of network servers, computer equipment and
computer applications. Be able to access the IT environment and write a report.
Support the ECDOH transversal applications. Providing software and
application support to end users. Coordinate support on office automation
services such as telephone systems, copiers, faxes and cellular phones etc.
Overseeing and Mentoring of IT interns. Manage Information Technology
Services by Monitoring local area networks performance. Render 1st line
technical support to users on transversal systems and network applications.
Maintain and monitor all incidents logged through a call logging system. Offer
a prompt support to all District facilities with NDOH Systems applications.
Oversee and Monitor District ICT projects, Monitor daily, weekly and monthly
the information Security (Anti-Virus, Backup Solution), liaise with users on
request for IT requirements. Create/maintain inventory of all desktop and
network related equipment. Facilitate ICT awareness sessions and promote
ICT policy adherence to all users.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Solomane Tel No: (045) 807 1110/1101 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/137 : INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PRACTITIONER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ITP/JGQ/S16/29/10/2025 (X4 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF Level 6) as recognized by
SAQA in Information Technology/Computer Science with 1-2 years’ experience
in the field. Sound technical knowledge and experience of the following is
strongly recommended: PC repairs, printer repairs, router configuration, LAN
switching, network protocols. Technical problem-solving skills, knowledge of
Microsoft Products (Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange). Knowledge of
configuring and managing printers and multi-function machines. Knowledge of
desktop and infrastructure (server, switches, networks and cabling)
environment Exchange Server Administration and TCP/ICP (Networking) and
802.11 (wireless) experience will be an advantage. Good interpersonal skills
with strong service orientation and the ability to work under pressure. Solve
problems by applying innovative thinking and encouraging a lateral approach.
A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Repair of computer equipment e.g. servers, pc’s and printers. Installation,
configuration and support of network servers, computer equipment and
computer applications. Be able to access the IT environment and write a report.
Support the ECDOH transversal applications. Providing software and
application support to end users. Coordinate support on office automation
services such as telephone systems, copiers, faxes and cellular phones etc.
Overseeing and Mentoring of IT interns. Manage Information Technology
101
Services by Monitoring local area networks performance. Render 1st line
technical support to users on transversal systems and network applications.
Maintain and monitor all incidents logged through a call logging system. Offer
a prompt support to all District facilities with NDOH Systems applications.
Oversee and Monitor District ICT projects, Monitor daily, weekly and monthly
the information Security (Anti-Virus, Backup Solution), liaise with users on
request for IT requirements. Create/maintain inventory of all desktop and
network related equipment. Facilitate ICT awareness sessions and promote
ICT policy adherence to all users.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JS Ndzinde Tel No: (051) 633 9631 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/138 : INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PRACTITIONER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ITP/NMM/S16/30/10/2025 (X4 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF Level 6) as recognized by
SAQA in Information Technology/Computer Science with 1 -2 years’
experience in the field. Sound technical knowledge and experience of the
following is strongly recommended: PC repairs, printer repairs, router
configuration, LAN switching, network protocols. Technical problem-solving
skills, knowledge of Microsoft Products (Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange).
Knowledge of configuring and managing printers and multi-function machines.
Knowledge of desktop and infrastructure (server, switches, networks and
cabling) environment Exchange Server Administration and TCP/ICP
(Networking) and 802.11 (wireless) experience will be an advantage. Good
interpersonal skills with strong service orientation and the ability to work under
pressure. Solve problems by applying innovative thinking and encouraging a
lateral approach. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Repair of computer equipment e.g. servers, pc’s and printers. Installation,
configuration and support of network servers, computer equipment and
computer applications. Be able to access the IT environment and write a report.
Support the ECDOH transversal applications. Providing software and
application support to end users. Coordinate support on office automation
services such as telephone systems, copiers, faxes and cellular phones etc.
Overseeing and Mentoring of IT interns. Manage Information Technology
Services by Monitoring local area networks performance. Render 1st line
technical support to users on transversal systems and network applications.
Maintain and monitor all incidents logged through a call logging system. Offer
a prompt support to all District facilities with NDOH Systems applications.
Oversee and Monitor District ICT projects, Monitor daily, weekly and monthly
the information Security (Anti-Virus, Backup Solution), liaise with users on
request for IT requirements. Create/maintain inventory of all desktop and
network related equipment. Facilitate ICT awareness sessions and promote
ICT policy adherence to all users.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Davids Tel No: (041) 391 8164 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/139 : INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PRACTITIONER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ITP/ORT/S16/31/10/2025 (X5 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF Level 6) as recognized by
SAQA in Information Technology/Computer Science with 1-2 years’ experience
in the field. Sound technical knowledge and experience of the following is
strongly recommended: PC repairs, printer repairs, router configuration, LAN
switching, network protocols. Technical problem-solving skills, knowledge of
Microsoft Products (Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange). Knowledge of
configuring and managing printers and multi-function machines. Knowledge of
desktop and infrastructure (server, switches, networks and cabling)
environment Exchange Server Administration and TCP/ICP (Networking) and
802.11 (wireless) experience will be an advantage. Good interpersonal skills
with strong service orientation and the ability to work under pressure. Solve
102
problems by applying innovative thinking and encouraging a lateral approach.
A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Repair of computer equipment e.g. servers, pc’s and printers. Installation,
configuration and support of network servers, computer equipment and
computer applications. Be able to access the IT environment and write a report.
Support the ECDOH transversal applications. Providing software and
application support to end users. Coordinate support on office automation
services such as telephone systems, copiers, faxes and cellular phones etc.
Overseeing and Mentoring of IT interns. Manage Information Technology
Services by Monitoring local area networks performance. Render 1st line
technical support to users on transversal systems and network applications.
Maintain and monitor all incidents logged through a call logging system. Offer
a prompt support to all District facilities with NDOH Systems applications.
Oversee and Monitor District ICT projects, Monitor daily, weekly and monthly
the information Security (Anti-Virus, Backup Solution), liaise with users on
request for IT requirements. Create/maintain inventory of all desktop and
network related equipment. Facilitate ICT awareness sessions and promote
ICT policy adherence to all users.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Sokutu Tel No: (047) 502 9000 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/140 : INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PRACTITIONER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ITP/SB/S16/32/10/2025 (X4 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF Level 6) as recognized by
SAQA in Information Technology/Computer Science with 1-2 years’ experience
in the field. Sound technical knowledge and experience of the following is
strongly recommended: PC repairs, printer repairs, router configuration, LAN
switching, network protocols. Technical problem-solving skills, knowledge of
Microsoft Products (Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange). Knowledge of
configuring and managing printers and multi-function machines. Knowledge of
desktop and infrastructure (server, switches, networks and cabling)
environment Exchange Server Administration and TCP/ICP (Networking) and
802.11 (wireless) experience will be an advantage. Good interpersonal skills
with strong service orientation and the ability to work under pressure. Solve
problems by applying innovative thinking and encouraging a lateral approach.
A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Repair of computer equipment e.g. servers, pc’s and printers. Installation,
configuration and support of network servers, computer equipment and
computer applications. Be able to access the IT environment and write a report.
Support the ECDOH transversal applications. Providing software and
application support to end users. Coordinate support on office automation
services such as telephone systems, copiers, faxes and cellular phones etc.
Overseeing and Mentoring of IT interns. Manage Information Technology
Services by Monitoring local area networks performance. Render 1st line
technical support to users on transversal systems and network applications.
Maintain and monitor all incidents logged through a call logging system. Offer
a prompt support to all District facilities with NDOH Systems applications.
Oversee and Monitor District ICT projects, Monitor daily, weekly and monthly
the information Security (Anti-Virus, Backup Solution), liaise with users on
request for IT requirements. Create/maintain inventory of all desktop and
network related equipment. Facilitate ICT awareness sessions and promote
ICT policy adherence to all users.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Sulo Tel No: (041) 408 8509 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/141 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 -3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/SN/ANZO/S16/33/10/2025 (X4 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 - R250 500 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R262 287 - R298 932 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R306 798 – R382 107 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District
103
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification that allows registration with SANC as Staff Nurse. Current
registration with SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade 1: No experience required.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience in Nursing after
registration as a Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ appropriate
experience in Nursing after registration as a Staff Nurse.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency under the direct Supervision
of a Professional Nurse as laid down by the Nursing Act. Provide nursing care
duties, which may include multi-task that, are Structured and mainly well
defined in respect of the following: Execute nursing care plans for patients.
Monitor vital signs and observe reactions to medication and treatments.
Promote and Maintain hygiene, comfort and re-assurance of patients.
Supervise and maintain fluid balance, oxygen and sensory functions of
patients. Promote healing of wounds, fractures and protection of the skin.
Prepare for and assist with diagnostic and therapeutic Acts performed by a
registered person. Prepare for and assist with Ward specific procedures and
anaesthetics. Care for the dying and deceased patient. Direct relatives/friends
to the appropriate person for enquiries or in cases of bereavement. Assist the
sister-in-charge to provide a safe and therapeutic environment that allows for
the practice of safe and standard procedures and may occasionally compare
possible courses of action mainly using these procedures. Provide nursing
assistance to medical and other nursing professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Praim Tel No: (039) 797 6070 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/142 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 -3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/SN/AMA/S16/34/10/2025
(X5 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 - R250 500 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R262 287 - R298 932 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R306 798 – R382 107 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Amathole District
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification that allows registration with SANC as Staff Nurse. Current
registration with SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade 1: No experience required.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience in Nursing after
registration as a Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ appropriate
experience in Nursing after registration as a Staff Nurse.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency under the direct Supervision
of a Professional Nurse as laid down by the Nursing Act. Provide nursing care
duties, which may include multi-task that, are Structured and mainly well
defined in respect of the following: Execute nursing care plans for patients.
Monitor vital signs and observe reactions to medication and treatments.
Promote and Maintain hygiene, comfort and re-assurance of patients.
Supervise and maintain fluid balance, oxygen and sensory functions of
patients. Promote healing of wounds, fractures and protection of the skin.
Prepare for and assist with diagnostic and therapeutic Acts performed by a
registered person. Prepare for and assist with Ward specific procedures and
anaesthetics. Care for the dying and deceased patient. Direct relatives/friends
to the appropriate person for enquiries or in cases of bereavement. Assist the
sister-in-charge to provide a safe and therapeutic environment that allows for
the practice of safe and standard procedures and may occasionally compare
possible courses of action mainly using these procedures. Provide nursing
assistance to medical and other nursing professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Njokweni Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/143 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 -3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/SN/BCM/S16/35/10/2025
(X5 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 - R250 500 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R262 287 - R298 932 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R306 798 – R382 107 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification that allows registration with SANC as Staff Nurse. Current
registration with SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade 1: No experience required.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience in Nursing after
104
registration as a Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ appropriate
experience in Nursing after registration as a Staff Nurse.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency under the direct Supervision
of a Professional Nurse as laid down by the Nursing Act. Provide nursing care
duties, which may include multi-task that, are Structured and mainly well
defined in respect of the following: Execute nursing care plans for patients.
Monitor vital signs and observe reactions to medication and treatments.
Promote and Maintain hygiene, comfort and re-assurance of patients.
Supervise and maintain fluid balance, oxygen and sensory functions of
patients. Promote healing of wounds, fractures and protection of the skin.
Prepare for and assist with diagnostic and therapeutic Acts performed by a
registered person. Prepare for and assist with Ward specific procedures and
anaesthetics. Care for the dying and deceased patient. Direct relatives/friends
to the appropriate person for enquiries or in cases of bereavement. Assist the
sister-in-charge to provide a safe and therapeutic environment that allows for
the practice of safe and standard procedures and may occasionally compare
possible courses of action mainly using these procedures. Provide nursing
assistance to medical and other nursing professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Jaceni Tel No: (043) 743 3006/057 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/144 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 -3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/SN/CH/S16/36/10/2025
(X4 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 - R250 500 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R262 287 - R298 932 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R306 798 – R382 107 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification that allows registration with SANC as Staff Nurse. Current
registration with SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade 1: No experience required.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience in Nursing after
registration as a Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ appropriate
experience in Nursing after registration as a Staff Nurse.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency under the direct Supervision
of a Professional Nurse as laid down by the Nursing Act. Provide nursing care
duties, which may include multi-task that, are Structured and mainly well
defined in respect of the following: Execute nursing care plans for patients.
Monitor vital signs and observe reactions to medication and treatments.
Promote and Maintain hygiene, comfort and re-assurance of patients.
Supervise and maintain fluid balance, oxygen and sensory functions of
patients. Promote healing of wounds, fractures and protection of the skin.
Prepare for and assist with diagnostic and therapeutic Acts performed by a
registered person. Prepare for and assist with Ward specific procedures and
anaesthetics. Care for the dying and deceased patient. Direct relatives/friends
to the appropriate person for enquiries or in cases of bereavement. Assist the
sister-in-charge to provide a safe and therapeutic environment that allows for
the practice of safe and standard procedures and may occasionally compare
possible courses of action mainly using these procedures. Provide nursing
assistance to medical and other nursing professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Solomane Tel No: (045) 8071110/1101 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/145 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 -3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/SN/JGQ/S16/37/10/2025
(X5 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 - R250 500 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R262 287 - R298 932 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R306 798 – R382 107 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi District
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification that allows registration with SANC as Staff Nurse. Current
registration with SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade 1: No experience required.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience in Nursing after
registration as a Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ appropriate
experience in Nursing after registration as a Staff Nurse.
105
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency under the direct Supervision
of a Professional Nurse as laid down by the Nursing Act. Provide nursing care
duties, which may include multi-task that, are Structured and mainly well
defined in respect of the following: Execute nursing care plans for patients.
Monitor vital signs and observe reactions to medication and treatments.
Promote and Maintain hygiene, comfort and re-assurance of patients.
Supervise and maintain fluid balance, oxygen and sensory functions of
patients. Promote healing of wounds, fractures and protection of the skin.
Prepare for and assist with diagnostic and therapeutic Acts performed by a
registered person. Prepare for and assist with Ward specific procedures and
anaesthetics. Care for the dying and deceased patient. Direct relatives/friends
to the appropriate person for enquiries or in cases of bereavement. Assist the
sister-in-charge to provide a safe and therapeutic environment that allows for
the practice of safe and standard procedures and may occasionally compare
possible courses of action mainly using these procedures. Provide nursing
assistance to medical and other nursing professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JS Ndzinde Tel No: (051) 633 9631 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/146 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 -3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/SN/NMM/S16/38/10/2025
(X5 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 - R250 500 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R262 287 - R298 932 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R306 798 – R382 107 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification that allows registration with SANC as Staff Nurse. Current
registration with SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade 1: No experience required.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience in Nursing after
registration as a Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ appropriate
experience in Nursing after registration as a Staff Nurse.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency under the direct Supervision
of a Professional Nurse as laid down by the Nursing Act. Provide nursing care
duties, which may include multi-task that, are Structured and mainly well
defined in respect of the following: Execute nursing care plans for patients.
Monitor vital signs and observe reactions to medication and treatments.
Promote and Maintain hygiene, comfort and re-assurance of patients.
Supervise and maintain fluid balance, oxygen and sensory functions of
patients. Promote healing of wounds, fractures and protection of the skin.
Prepare for and assist with diagnostic and therapeutic Acts performed by a
registered person. Prepare for and assist with Ward specific procedures and
anaesthetics. Care for the dying and deceased patient. Direct relatives/friends
to the appropriate person for enquiries or in cases of bereavement. Assist the
sister-in-charge to provide a safe and therapeutic environment that allows for
the practice of safe and standard procedures and may occasionally compare
possible courses of action mainly using these procedures. Provide nursing
assistance to medical and other nursing professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Davids Tel No: (041) 391 8164 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/147 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 -3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/SN/ORT/S16/39/10/2025
(X5 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 - R250 500 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R262 287 - R298 932 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R306 798 – R382 107 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification that allows registration with SANC as Staff Nurse. Current
registration with SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade 1: No experience required.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience in Nursing after
registration as a Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ appropriate
experience in Nursing after registration as a Staff Nurse.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency under the direct Supervision
of a Professional Nurse as laid down by the Nursing Act. Provide nursing care
duties, which may include multi-task that, are Structured and mainly well
106
defined in respect of the following: Execute nursing care plans for patients.
Monitor vital signs and observe reactions to medication and treatments.
Promote and Maintain hygiene, comfort and re-assurance of patients.
Supervise and maintain fluid balance, oxygen and sensory functions of
patients. Promote healing of wounds, fractures and protection of the skin.
Prepare for and assist with diagnostic and therapeutic Acts performed by a
registered person. Prepare for and assist with Ward specific procedures and
anaesthetics. Care for the dying and deceased patient. Direct relatives/friends
to the appropriate person for enquiries or in cases of bereavement. Assist the
sister-in-charge to provide a safe and therapeutic environment that allows for
the practice of safe and standard procedures and may occasionally compare
possible courses of action mainly using these procedures. Provide nursing
assistance to medical and other nursing professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Sokutu Tel No: (047) 502 9000 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/148 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 -3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/SN/SB/S16/40/10/2025
(X5 POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 - R250 500 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R262 287 - R298 932 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R306 798 – R382 107 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification that allows registration with SANC as Staff Nurse. Current
registration with SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade 1: No experience required.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience in Nursing after
registration as a Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ appropriate
experience in Nursing after registration as a Staff Nurse.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency under the direct Supervision
of a Professional Nurse as laid down by the Nursing Act. Provide nursing care
duties, which may include multi-task that, are Structured and mainly well
defined in respect of the following: Execute nursing care plans for patients.
Monitor vital signs and observe reactions to medication and treatments.
Promote and Maintain hygiene, comfort and re-assurance of patients.
Supervise and maintain fluid balance, oxygen and sensory functions of
patients. Promote healing of wounds, fractures and protection of the skin.
Prepare for and assist with diagnostic and therapeutic Acts performed by a
registered person. Prepare for and assist with Ward specific procedures and
anaesthetics. Care for the dying and deceased patient. Direct relatives/friends
to the appropriate person for enquiries or in cases of bereavement. Assist the
sister-in-charge to provide a safe and therapeutic environment that allows for
the practice of safe and standard procedures and may occasionally compare
possible courses of action mainly using these procedures. Provide nursing
assistance to medical and other nursing professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Sulo Tel No: (041) 408 8509 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/149 : DATA CAPTURER REF NO: ECHEALTH/DC/ANZO/S16/41/10/2025 (X30
POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no experience. Basic knowledge of
administration processes. Communication skills, Numeracy, Computer Literacy
and ability to draw data. Self-propelled. Responsive person with positive
attitude.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support services: Capture and update data on
computer. Generate spread sheets. Update the system on all data sets.
Validate data (for quality purpose) to ensure correctness, completeness and
consistency. Compile routine statistical information/reports. Receive, register
and track records or documents submitted for further processing in the
administration component of the institution. Capture routine transactions on
computer such as the transfer of information from manual records to electronic
documents. Provide routine and administrative maintenance services: Update
107
and file records. Continuous updating of information on computer for reporting
purposes. Maintain DHIS database. Retrieve information required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Praim Tel No: (039) 797 6070 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/150 : DATA CAPTURER REF NO: ECHEALTH/DC/AMA/S16/42/10/2025 (X30
POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Amathole District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no experience. Basic knowledge of
administration processes. Communication skills, Numeracy, Computer Literacy
and ability to draw data. Self-propelled. Responsive person with positive
attitude.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support services: Capture and update data on
computer. Generate spread sheets. Update the system on all data sets.
Validate data (for quality purpose) to ensure correctness, completeness and
consistency. Compile routine statistical information/reports. Receive, register
and track records or documents submitted for further processing in the
administration component of the institution. Capture routine transactions on
computer such as the transfer of information from manual records to electronic
documents. Provide routine and administrative maintenance services: Update
and file records. Continuous updating of information on computer for reporting
purposes. Maintain DHIS database. Retrieve information required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Njokweni Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/151 : DATA CAPTURER REF NO: ECHEALTH/DC/BCM/S16/43/10/2025 (X30
POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no experience. Basic knowledge of
administration processes. Communication skills, Numeracy, Computer Literacy
and ability to draw data. Self-propelled. Responsive person with positive
attitude.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support services: Capture and update data on
computer. Generate spread sheets. Update the system on all data sets.
Validate data (for quality purpose) to ensure correctness, completeness and
consistency. Compile routine statistical information/reports. Receive, register
and track records or documents submitted for further processing in the
administration component of the institution. Capture routine transactions on
computer such as the transfer of information from manual records to electronic
documents. Provide routine and administrative maintenance services: Update
and file records. Continuous updating of information on computer for reporting
purposes. Maintain DHIS database. Retrieve information required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Jaceni Tel No: (043) 7433 006/057 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/152 : DATA CAPTURER REF NO: ECHEALTH/DC/CH/S16/44/10/2025 (X30
POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no experience. Basic knowledge of
administration processes. Communication skills, Numeracy, Computer Literacy
and ability to draw data. Self-propelled. Responsive person with positive
attitude.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support services: Capture and update data on
computer. Generate spread sheets. Update the system on all data sets.
Validate data (for quality purpose) to ensure correctness, completeness and
consistency. Compile routine statistical information/reports. Receive, register
and track records or documents submitted for further processing in the
administration component of the institution. Capture routine transactions on
108
computer such as the transfer of information from manual records to electronic
documents. Provide routine and administrative maintenance services: Update
and file records. Continuous updating of information on computer for reporting
purposes. Maintain DHIS database. Retrieve information required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Solomane Tel No: (045) 8071110/1101 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/153 : DATA CAPTURER REF NO: ECHEALTH/DC/JGQ/S16/45/10/2025 (X29
POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no experience. Basic knowledge of
administration processes. Communication skills, Numeracy, Computer Literacy
and ability to draw data. Self-propelled. Responsive person with positive
attitude.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support services: Capture and update data on
computer. Generate spread sheets. Update the system on all data sets.
Validate data (for quality purpose) to ensure correctness, completeness and
consistency. Compile routine statistical information/reports. Receive, register
and track records or documents submitted for further processing in the
administration component of the institution. Capture routine transactions on
computer such as the transfer of information from manual records to electronic
documents. Provide routine and administrative maintenance services: Update
and file records. Continuous updating of information on computer for reporting
purposes. Maintain DHIS database. Retrieve information required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JS Ndzinde Tel No: (051) 633 9631 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/154 : DATA CAPTURER REF NO: ECHEALTH/DC/NMM/S16/46/10/2025 (X30
POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : R193 359 – R 227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no experience. Basic knowledge of
administration processes. Communication skills, Numeracy, Computer Literacy
and ability to draw data. Self-propelled. Responsive person with positive
attitude.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support services: Capture and update data on
computer. Generate spread sheets. Update the system on all data sets.
Validate data (for quality purpose) to ensure correctness, completeness and
consistency. Compile routine statistical information/reports. Receive, register
and track records or documents submitted for further processing in the
administration component of the institution. Capture routine transactions on
computer such as the transfer of information from manual records to electronic
documents. Provide routine and administrative maintenance services: Update
and file records. Continuous updating of information on computer for reporting
purposes. Maintain DHIS database. Retrieve information required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Davids Tel No: (041) 391 8164 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/155 : DATA CAPTURER REF NO: ECHEALTH/DC/ORT/S16/47/10/2025 (X30
POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no experience. Basic knowledge of
administration processes. Communication skills, Numeracy, Computer Literacy
and ability to draw data. Self-propelled. Responsive person with positive
attitude.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support services: Capture and update data on
computer. Generate spread sheets. Update the system on all data sets.
Validate data (for quality purpose) to ensure correctness, completeness and
consistency. Compile routine statistical information/reports. Receive, register
109
and track records or documents submitted for further processing in the
administration component of the institution. Capture routine transactions on
computer such as the transfer of information from manual records to electronic
documents. Provide routine and administrative maintenance services: Update
and file records. Continuous updating of information on computer for reporting
purposes. Maintain DHIS database. Retrieve information required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Sokutu Tel No: (047) 502 9000 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/156 : DATA CAPTURER REF NO: ECHEALTH/DC/SB/S16/48/10/2025 (X30
POSTS)
(5 months contract)
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no experience. Basic knowledge of
administration processes. Communication skills, Numeracy, Computer Literacy
and ability to draw data. Self-propelled. Responsive person with positive
attitude.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support services: Capture and update data on
computer. Generate spread sheets. Update the system on all data sets.
Validate data (for quality purpose) to ensure correctness, completeness and
consistency. Compile routine statistical information/reports. Receive, register
and track records or documents submitted for further processing in the
administration component of the institution. Capture routine transactions on
computer such as the transfer of information from manual records to electronic
documents. Provide routine and administrative maintenance services: Update
and file records. Continuous updating of information on computer for reporting
purposes. Maintain DHIS database. Retrieve information required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Sulo Tel No: (041) 408 8509 or email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 39/157 : CHAIRMANSHIP / CHAIRPERSON REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ECCC/CHP/02/10/2025
SALARY : The appointed individual will be remunerated according to scales approved by
the National Treasury and the policy on the remuneration of Council members
of Public Technical and Vocational Education and Training Councils.
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Eastern Cape College of Emergency Care
REQUIREMENTS : An independent non-executive of the college and be free from conflicts of
interest. A sound understanding of the higher education environment and
experience in higher education/institution of higher learning activities ensuring
availability of functional college council committees; Broad understanding of
financial management, good governance as per King IV report and ability to
support the college in ensuring availability of adequate resources including
finances; A visionary and open-minded on critical matters of an academic
institution, Excellent leadership, communication, negotiation and interpersonal
skills and demonstrable ability to exercise fiduciary responsibilities without any
self-interest; Ability to account to stakeholders for college performance.
Commitment to the institution and its well-being with solid grasp of strategic
and other forms of institutional planning; Understanding of the funding
environment of higher education institution; Ability to analyse and interpret
budgets and financial statements; Ability to re-prioritise institutional goals and
targets in light of changed circumstances; Understanding of the audit and risk
context within which higher education institutions function; Grasp of the
legislative and regulatory environment and general legal processes within
which higher education institutions operate; Sound understanding of human
resource systems and processes; Understanding of the role IT plays in all
institutional facets; Experience in multiple project management; Ability to
interpret changing social situations impacting on the institution; Clear
understanding of the distinction between governance and management in
large.
DUTIES : Provide good governance and leadership to the college community. Prepares
the agenda with the Principal and Registrar: Administration. Chairs the meeting
and ensures proceedings run smoothly. Ensure meetings are properly
organised and quorum is met. Ensure there is full and balanced participation
of members in meeting. Facilitates voting on motions at the meetings. Ensure
110
resolutions of council are implemented and all council meetings are properly
attended.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Plaatjie Tel No: (041) 453 0911 or email to:
Khayalethu.Plaatjie@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be sent to the following email addresses:
Khayalethu.Plaatjie@echealth.gov.za
NOTE : Applications must be posted on the new Z83 Form accompanied by copies of
Qualification(s) inclusive of Matric certificate, Identity document (only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies) a
comprehensive CV, indicating three current reference persons: Name and
Contact Numbers, A relationship with reference, Reference checks will be done
on nominated candidate(s). Please do not send any original certificates,
diplomas, or testimonials. Applicants must note that further Personnel
Suitability checks will be conducted on short-listed candidates and that their
appointment is subject to the outcome of these checks which include security
clearance, security vetting, qualification verification and criminal record checks.
Note that correspondence will only be conducted with the short-listed
candidates. If you have not been contacted by the Department of Health within
three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. We thank all applicants for their interest.
Additional Note: The committee will report directly to the Member of the
Executive Council (MEC) of the Department of Health. Sitting allowance will be
paid to non-official external council members for attending four (4) meetings
per year, plus not more than three (3) special or emergency meetings, where
such meetings will be meant for resolving matters of the public TVET college.
Eastern Cape College of Emergency Care invites applications from interested
people to serve in the Emergency Care College Council in various portfolios
for a period of 3 years.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/158 : COMMUNITY REPRESENTATIVE (LEGAL) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ECCC/CHP/02/10/2025
SALARY : The appointed individual will be remunerated according to scales approved by
the National Treasury and the policy on the remuneration of Council members
of Public Technical and Vocational Education and Training Councils.
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Eastern Cape College of Emergency Care
REQUIREMENTS : An independent non-executive of the college and be free from conflicts of
interest. Must be involved in the recognised local government structures in
his/her community for easy integration. Must have understanding of how the
council operates and be able to participate and continue towards sustainability
on emergency care education activities in the area where he/she comes from.
Must possess good communication and interpersonal skills. A committed
individual who is prepared to support emergency care education activities
across the Eastern Cape Province.
DUTIES : Represents the views of the wider college community. Offers advice on a range
of topics about the college. Comes to other functions and meetings, like the
AGM or end of year assemblies (as needed/appropriate). Actively takes part in
discussions about the governance of the institution.
ENQUIRIES Mr K Plaatjie Tel No: (041) 453 0911 or email to:
Khayalethu.Plaatjie@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be sent to the following email addresses:
Khayalethu.Plaatjie@echealth.gov.za
NOTE : Applications must be posted on the new Z83 Form accompanied by copies of
Qualification(s) inclusive of Matric certificate, Identity document (only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies) a
comprehensive CV, indicating three current reference persons: Name and
Contact Numbers, A relationship with reference, Reference checks will be done
on nominated candidate(s). Please do not send any original certificates,
diplomas, or testimonials. Applicants must note that further Personnel
Suitability checks will be conducted on short-listed candidates and that their
appointment is subject to the outcome of these checks which include security
clearance, security vetting, qualification verification and criminal record checks.
Note that correspondence will only be conducted with the short-listed
candidates. If you have not been contacted by the Department of Health within
three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. We thank all applicants for their interest.
111
Additional Note: The committee will report directly to the Member of the
Executive Council (MEC) of the Department of Health. Sitting allowance will be
paid to non-official external council members for attending four (4) meetings
per year, plus not more than three (3) special or emergency meetings, where
such meetings will be meant for resolving matters of the public TVET college.
Eastern Cape College of Emergency Care invites applications from interested
people to serve in the Emergency Care College Council in various portfolios
for a period of 3 years.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/159 : COMMUNITY REPRESENTATIVE (FINANCE) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ECCC/FIN/02/10/2025
SALARY : The appointed individual will be remunerated according to scales approved by
the National Treasury and the policy on the remuneration of Council members
of Public Technical and Vocational Education and Training Councils.
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Eastern Cape College of Emergency Care
REQUIREMENTS : An independent non-executive of the college and be free from conflicts of
interest. Must be involved in the recognised local government structures in
his/her community for easy integration. Must have understanding of how the
council operates and be able to participate and continue towards sustainability
on emergency care education activities in the area where he/she comes from.
Must possess good communication and interpersonal skills. A committed
individual who is prepared to support emergency care education activities
across the Eastern Cape Province.
DUTIES : Represents the views of the wider college community. Offers advice on a range
of topics about the college. Comes to other functions and meetings, like the
AGM or end of year assemblies (as needed/appropriate). Actively takes part in
discussions about the governance of the institution.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Plaatjie Tel No: (041) 453 0911 or email to:
Khayalethu.Plaatjie@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be sent to the following email addresses:
Khayalethu.Plaatjie@echealth.gov.za
NOTE : Applications must be posted on the new Z83 Form accompanied by copies of
Qualification(s) inclusive of Matric certificate, Identity document (only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies) a
comprehensive CV, indicating three current reference persons: Name and
Contact Numbers, A relationship with reference, Reference checks will be done
on nominated candidate(s). Please do not send any original certificates,
diplomas, or testimonials. Applicants must note that further Personnel
Suitability checks will be conducted on short-listed candidates and that their
appointment is subject to the outcome of these checks which include security
clearance, security vetting, qualification verification and criminal record checks.
Note that correspondence will only be conducted with the short-listed
candidates. If you have not been contacted by the Department of Health within
three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. We thank all applicants for their interest.
Additional Note: The committee will report directly to the Member of the
Executive Council (MEC) of the Department of Health. Sitting allowance will be
paid to non-official external council members for attending four (4) meetings
per year, plus not more than three (3) special or emergency meetings, where
such meetings will be meant for resolving matters of the public TVET college.
Eastern Cape College of Emergency Care invites applications from interested
people to serve in the Emergency Care College Council in various portfolios
for a period of 3 years.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/160 : COMMUNITY REPRESENTATIVE (AUDITING) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ECCC/ADT/02/10/2025
SALARY : The appointed individual will be remunerated according to scales approved by
the National Treasury and the policy on the remuneration of Council members
of Public Technical and Vocational Education and Training Councils.
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Eastern Cape College of Emergency Care
REQUIREMENTS : An independent non-executive of the college and be free from conflicts of
interest. Must be involved in the recognised local government structures in
his/her community for easy integration. Must have understanding of how the
112
council operates and be able to participate and continue towards sustainability
on emergency care education activities in the area where he/she comes from.
Must possess good communication and interpersonal skills. A committed
individual who is prepared to support emergency care education activities
across the Eastern Cape Province.
DUTIES : Represents the views of the wider college community. Offers advice on a range
of topics about the college. Comes to other functions and meetings, like the
AGM or end of year assemblies (as needed/appropriate). Actively takes part in
discussions about the governance of the institution.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Plaatjie Tel No: (041) 453 0911 or email to:
Khayalethu.Plaatjie@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be sent to the following email addresses:
Khayalethu.Plaatjie@echealth.gov.za
NOTE : Applications must be posted on the new Z83 Form accompanied by copies of
Qualification(s) inclusive of Matric certificate, Identity document (only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies) a
comprehensive CV, indicating three current reference persons: Name and
Contact Numbers, A relationship with reference, Reference checks will be done
on nominated candidate(s). Please do not send any original certificates,
diplomas, or testimonials. Applicants must note that further Personnel
Suitability checks will be conducted on short-listed candidates and that their
appointment is subject to the outcome of these checks which include security
clearance, security vetting, qualification verification and criminal record checks.
Note that correspondence will only be conducted with the short-listed
candidates. If you have not been contacted by the Department of Health within
three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. We thank all applicants for their interest.
Additional Note: The committee will report directly to the Member of the
Executive Council (MEC) of the Department of Health. Sitting allowance will be
paid to non-official external council members for attending four (4) meetings
per year, plus not more than three (3) special or emergency meetings, where
such meetings will be meant for resolving matters of the public TVET college.
Eastern Cape College of Emergency Care invites applications from interested
people to serve in the Emergency Care College Council in various portfolios
for a period of 3 years.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/161 : COMMUNITY REPRESENTATIVE (HUMAN RESOURCE) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ECCC/HR/02/10/2025
SALARY : The appointed individual will be remunerated according to scales approved by
the National Treasury and the policy on the remuneration of Council members
of Public Technical and Vocational Education and Training Councils.
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Eastern Cape College of Emergency Care
REQUIREMENTS : An independent non-executive of the college and be free from conflicts of
interest. Must be involved in the recognised local government structures in
his/her community for easy integration. Must have understanding of how the
council operates and be able to participate and continue towards sustainability
on emergency care education activities in the area where he/she comes from.
Must possess good communication and interpersonal skills. A committed
individual who is prepared to support emergency care education activities
across the Eastern Cape Province.
DUTIES : Represents the views of the wider college community. Offers advice on a range
of topics about the college. Comes to other functions and meetings, like the
AGM or end of year assemblies (as needed/appropriate). Actively takes part in
discussions about the governance of the institution.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Plaatjie Tel No: (041) 453 0911 or email to:
Khayalethu.Plaatjie@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be sent to the following email addresses:
Khayalethu.Plaatjie@echealth.gov.za
NOTE : Applications must be posted on the new Z83 Form accompanied by copies of
Qualification(s) inclusive of Matric certificate, Identity document (only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies) a
comprehensive CV, indicating three current reference persons: Name and
Contact Numbers, A relationship with reference, Reference checks will be done
on nominated candidate(s). Please do not send any original certificates,
diplomas, or testimonials. Applicants must note that further Personnel
113
Suitability checks will be conducted on short-listed candidates and that their
appointment is subject to the outcome of these checks which include security
clearance, security vetting, qualification verification and criminal record checks.
Note that correspondence will only be conducted with the short-listed
candidates. If you have not been contacted by the Department of Health within
three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. We thank all applicants for their interest.
Additional Note: The committee will report directly to the Member of the
Executive Council (MEC) of the Department of Health. Sitting allowance will be
paid to non-official external council members for attending four (4) meetings
per year, plus not more than three (3) special or emergency meetings, where
such meetings will be meant for resolving matters of the public TVET college.
Eastern Cape College of Emergency Care invites applications from interested
people to serve in the Emergency Care College Council in various portfolios
for a period of 3 years.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/162 : COMMUNITY REPRESENTATIVE (POLICY DEVELOPMENT AND
TRANSFORMATION) REF NO: ECHEALTH/ECCC/PDT/02/10/2025
SALARY : The appointed individual will be remunerated according to scales approved by
the National Treasury and the policy on the remuneration of Council members
of Public Technical and Vocational Education and Training Councils.
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Eastern Cape College of Emergency Care
REQUIREMENTS : An independent non-executive of the college and be free from conflicts of
interest. Must be involved in the recognised local government structures in
his/her community for easy integration. Must have understanding of how the
council operates and be able to participate and continue towards sustainability
on emergency care education activities in the area where he/she comes from.
Must possess good communication and interpersonal skills. A committed
individual who is prepared to support emergency care education activities
across the Eastern Cape Province.
DUTIES : Represents the views of the wider college community. Offers advice on a range
of topics about the college. Comes to other functions and meetings, like the
AGM or end of year assemblies (as needed/appropriate). Actively takes part in
discussions about the governance of the institution.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Plaatjie Tel No: (041) 453 0911 or email to:
Khayalethu.Plaatjie@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be sent to the following email addresses:
Khayalethu.Plaatjie@echealth.gov.za
NOTE : Applications must be posted on the new Z83 Form accompanied by copies of
Qualification(s) inclusive of Matric certificate, Identity document (only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies) a
comprehensive CV, indicating three current reference persons: Name and
Contact Numbers, A relationship with reference, Reference checks will be done
on nominated candidate(s). Please do not send any original certificates,
diplomas, or testimonials. Applicants must note that further Personnel
Suitability checks will be conducted on short-listed candidates and that their
appointment is subject to the outcome of these checks which include security
clearance, security vetting, qualification verification and criminal record checks.
Note that correspondence will only be conducted with the short-listed
candidates. If you have not been contacted by the Department of Health within
three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. We thank all applicants for their interest.
Additional Note: The committee will report directly to the Member of the
Executive Council (MEC) of the Department of Health. Sitting allowance will be
paid to non-official external council members for attending four (4) meetings
per year, plus not more than three (3) special or emergency meetings, where
such meetings will be meant for resolving matters of the public TVET college.
Eastern Cape College of Emergency Care invites applications from interested
people to serve in the Emergency Care College Council in various portfolios
for a period of 3 years.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
114
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted only via the provincial e-Recruitment system
available at: https://ecprov.gov.za (under Careers) and/or at
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za. The system is available 24/7 throughout and
closes at 23:59 on the closing date. To report any challenges pertaining e-
Recruitment System, send an email with your ID Number, your profile e-Mail
Address and the details of the issue to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. Do not submit any CVs to this email
address; should you do so, your application will be regarded as lost and will
not be considered. No Hand-Delivered/ No Emailed / No Faxed / No Posted
applications will be accepted.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly complete New Z83 form (effective
from 01 January 2021) obtainable from any Public Service Department or on
the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents, e-Recruitment System
automatically generates Z83 immediately you apply. FOR SMS (Senior
Management Service) Posts: In terms of DPSA Directive on compulsory
capacity development, mandatory training, and minimum entry requirements
for members of the Senior Management Level for SMS appointments, it is a
requirement for applicants to have obtained pre-entry Certificate (Nyukela) as
offered by the National School of Government (NSG) for entry into the SMS
posts and the full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme (the
SMS pre-entry certificate is not a Requirement for shortlisting; is submitted
prior to appointment). Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must fully
populate information on the E-Recruitment system and submit a fully
completed and signed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. NB: Z83 in the
E-Recruitment system is currently not signable; so, applicants who submitted
applications via the E-Recruitment system will not be disqualified for an
unsigned Z83 instead will be requested to sign on interview day. Under My Job
Applications, system Z83 does not reflect work experience and qualifications,
however, every detail of your information does reflect to the Recruitment team.
Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications, and other relevant documents to HR on or before the interview
date. Applicants with foreign qualifications would be required to submit an
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) on
or before the day of the interview. Failure to submit all the requested documents
will disqualify the application. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within six (6) months after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability
check (criminal record check, citizenship verification, financial/asset record
check, qualification/study verification and previous employment verification).
Successful candidates will also be subjected to security clearance processes.
Where applicable, candidates will be subjected to a skills/knowledge test. The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Successful
candidates will be appointed on a probation period of twelve 12/24 months.
Misrepresentation in the application documents will result in automatic
disqualification and disciplinary action in the event the candidate has already
been appointed. It is the department’s objective to address the Employment
Equity Affirmative Action Measures in line with the Employment Equity Plan
and to achieve equitable representation across race and gender. In the filling
of these posts gender equity and people living with disability will be highly
considered to adhere to the EE targets of the department. The Department
reserves the right to amend/ review/ withdraw advertised posts if by so doing,
the best interest of the department will be well served. (Females and People
with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications).
115
OTHER POST
POST 39/163 : AUDIT COMMITTEE (AC) MEMBER: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
SPECIALIST REF NO: PT 01/10/2025
The Eastern Cape Provincial Treasury calls on all independent, suitably
qualified and interested person to serve as member of its Audit Committee for
a period of three (3) years.
SALARY : Appointment and Remuneration will be in accordance with the Provincial
Treasury Instruction Note No.6 of 2014/15 - Framework for Appointment and
remuneration of Audit Committee Members.
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Bhisho)
REQUIREMENTS : Member must be independent and be knowledgeable of the status of the
position with relevant experience with specific focus on the Information
Technology background. Demonstrate experience in participating in
governance structures, ability to dedicate time to the activities of the Audit
Committee. Analytical reasoning abilities, good communication skills, and a
thorough understanding of the regulatory framework within which the
government operates in the public sector. Knowledge and understanding of
social and infrastructure environments in the public sector. Minimum
requirements include a tertiary qualification in Information Technology with at
least 5-10 years’ experience at a senior level in the public or private sector. Be
a member of a recognised professional body. Member must not be employed
by the public sector.
DUTIES : The Audit Committee is an advisory committee that assist the department in
fulfilling its oversight responsibilities with regards to Internal Controls, Risk
Management and Governance. The oversight statutory roles of the audit
committee are in terms of the PFMA, Treasury Regulations and other
applicable Regulatory Frameworks. The Audit committee will be required to
conduct its duties in accordance with an approved Audit Committee Charter.
Help to strengthen objectivity and credibility of financial and non-financial
reporting including Information Technology. Monitor the performance of the
Internal Audit Unit. Monitor management’s responses to reported weaknesses,
control deficiencies and make recommendations for improvement. Review
compliance with legal and regulatory provisions. Additional: To ensure the
correct level of focus, and to increase opportunities for diversity, the number of
memberships held by the member will be reviewed by the department
periodically. All applications are welcome. However, in making appointments
the department may give preference based on local candidates or equity target
groups based on the Employment Equity Plan of the Department; The Audit
Committee member will be subject to compulsory vetting procedures. The Audit
Committee will report directly to the Head of Department and the Member of
the Executive Council (MEC). The Department will hold a minimum of four (4)
Audit Committee meetings per financial year. Candidates may apply personally
in writing. Audit committee packs are distributed electronically and provided in
soft copy only; Audit committee and other departmental meetings may be held
via virtual conference platforms. The Audit Committee is required to have
access to a secure internet connection, their own device for navigating the
audit committee pack and sufficient computer expertise to navigate these
documents and conference platforms with limited assistance. Remuneration
and appointment will be in accordance with the Provincial Treasury Instruction
Note No. 6 of 2014/15 - Framework for Appointment and Remuneration of Audit
Committee Members. The Audit Committee members are expected to provide
their own working tools and have own processes to embark on Continuous
Professional Development to provide sound advice to the department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U. Madia at 083 728 9848 / Email: uzukhanye.madia@ectreasury.gov.za
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must strictly apply using only the provincial e-Recruitment system
which is available on www.ecprov.gov.za, or https://www.ecprov.gov.za or
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/. The system is available 24/7 and closes at
23:59 on the closing date. To report technical glitches, for assistance regarding
the system, and/or for activation of your profile, send an email with your ID
Number, your profile email address, details of the issue to
recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za. (NB: For Technical Glitches Only – No CVs).
Technical support is limited to working hours: (08:00-16:30 Mon-Thursday and
116
08:00-16:00 on Fri). Should you submit your applications/ CV to:
recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za and not as specified, your application will be
regarded as lost and not be considered. Refer all application related enquiries
to the specified contact person.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly complete New Z83 form (effective 01
January 2021) obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must
submit a fully completed signed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. NB:
Z83 in the e-recruitment system is currently not downloadable and therefore
not signable; so, applicants who submitted applications via the e-recruitment
system will not be disqualified for an unsigned Z83 instead will be requested to
sign on interview day. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
copies of qualifications, and other relevant documents to HR on or before the
interview date. Applicants with foreign qualifications would be required to
submit an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA) on or before the day of the interview. Failure to submit all the requested
documents will disqualify the application. Correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within six (6)
months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial/asset record check, qualification/study verification and previous
employment verification). Successful candidates will also be subjected to
security clearance processes. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a
skills/knowledge test. Successful candidates will be appointed on a probation
period of twelve (12) months. Misrepresentation in the application documents
will result in automatic disqualification and disciplinary action in the event the
candidate has already been appointed. It is the department’s objective to
address the Employment Equity Affirmative Action Measures in line with the
Employment Equity Plan and to achieve equitable representation across race
and gender. In filling of these posts gender equity and people living with
disability will be highly considered. The Department reserves the right to
amend / review / withdraw advertised posts if by so doing, the best interest of
the department will be well served. (Females and People with disabilities are
also requested to apply and indicate such in their applications). targets of the
department will be adhered to.
OTHER POSTS
POST 39/164 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CONTRACTS MANAGEMENT REF NO: DSD
01/10/2025
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 annum (Level 11), all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Bisho
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate plus a three-year qualification (NQF Level 6/7) in
Commerce, Law or a related field. 3-5 years related contracts management
experience of which 3 must be at an Assistant Director Level (SL 9). A driver’s
license is a prerequisite. Competencies: Communication, both oral and written.
Client orientation and customer focus. Honesty and integrity. Service delivery
innovation. Knowledge Management: Financial management. Problem solving
and analysis. Strategic capability leadership. Program and project
management. People management and empowerment: Change Management.
Public Service Regulatory Framework. Policy formulation process within the
Government. Business and management principles involved in strategic
planning, resource allocation, human resource modelling and leadership
techniques. Monitoring and evaluation methods, tools, and techniques.
Statistical and data analysis. Policy analysis and research. Analytical Thinker,
Report writing, and Presentation. The understanding of Financial Statements
will serve as an advantage.
DUTIES : Manage, undertake and review the monitoring, analyses and determination of
actions to ensure proper contract administration. Administer variations to
contracts. Evaluate applications for price adjustments and invoke penalty
clauses. Evaluate applications for variations, amendments and cancellations
and develop proposals for approval. Undertake dispute resolution and ensure
that all documentation is prepared and available to resolve disputes. (f).
117
Maintain proper relationships with suppliers within the code of ethics to ensure
the delivery of goods/services. Manage the coordination, review and
monitoring of contract compliance by determining whether products/services
are delivered at the right time, of the right quantity, right products, right place,
right conditions, right quality and right price according to the contract. Compile
and submit all required administrative reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Y Singqandu Tel No: (043) 605 5042/59
APPLICATIONS : e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
POST 39/165 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: DSD 02/10/2025
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 annum (Level 11), all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Bisho
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised three-year qualification (NQF Level 6/7) in Risk Management,
Forensic Auditing, Accounting, Business Administration, Law, or any
relevant/equivalent qualification. A minimum of 3-5 years’ relevant risk
management experience, of which 3 years must be at Assistant Director level
in a risk management environment. A valid driver’s license. Competencies: The
ideal candidate must demonstrate in-depth knowledge of risk management
principles, methodologies, frameworks and standards such as ISO 31000,
COSO ERM, PFMA, Treasury Regulations, King IV principles of corporate
governance, as well as public sector risk management guidelines. The role
requires strong skills in strategic planning, risk assessment and mitigation,
policy development, report writing, analytical thinking, problem-solving, project
management, effective communication (both verbal and written), facilitation,
and stakeholder engagement. The successful candidate must also display
proven leadership abilities, including the capacity to manage and lead a team,
foster a risk-aware culture, and institutionalise risk management practices
across the organisation. In addition, the candidate should possess personal
attributes such as integrity, objectivity, attention to detail, resilience,
adaptability, sound decision-making ability, and a commitment to continuous
improvement.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for developing and implementing
risk management strategies, systems, policies and the annual risk
management plan. Duties will include managing, reviewing and improving the
risk management framework; conducting studies and analyses to identify risks;
facilitating and advising on the risk assessment process; monitoring and
reviewing risk response activities; maintaining the risk register; and compiling
reports as required. The candidate will also be expected to facilitate the
institutionalisation of risk management by embedding a risk management
culture across the organisation and providing capacity development, guidance
and advice to employees on risk management matters. In addition, the
incumbent will manage the Sub-Directorate: Risk Management by overseeing
performance management, discipline, human resource and administrative
functions, operational and communication planning, quality control of outputs,
procurement and asset management, reporting, and providing functional and
technical guidance.
ENQUIRIES : may be directed to Mr. Y Singqandu Tel No: (043) 605 5042/49
APPLICATIONS : e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
POST 39/166 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: DSD 03/10/2025
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Provincial Office. Bisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus B Degree/ N Diploma (NQF level 6/7) in Internal
Auditing / Accounting/Commerce. A minimum of 3-5 years’ relevant work
experience in an Auditing environment and 3 years must be at a supervisory
Level (level 7/8). IAT/PIA/CIA designation would be an added advantage.
Competencies: Theory and Practice of Internal Audit. Knowledge and
application of applicable legislative requirements. Departmental Policies and
Procedures. Governance & Risk Management. Budget Preparation, Monitoring
and Reporting. Problem-solving skills. Analytical Thinker. Communication
(verbal & written). Competencies: Knowledge of the Standards for the
Professional Practice of Internal Audits and the Code of Ethics developed by
the Institute of Internal Auditors. Extensive knowledge of internal auditing and
risk management. Extensive knowledge of the Public Finance Management
Act and Treasury regulations. Skills required: supervision, Organisational and
118
planning, coordination and communication skills (written and spoken), report
writing, conflict management and resolution, Programme and project
management, good interpersonal relations and decision-making,
Organisational and management accounting skills. Personal attributes:
innovative and proactive, ability to work under extreme pressure and long
hours voluntarily, ability to gather and analyse information, ability to develop
and apply policies, ability to work independently and in a team, ability to
interpret information and reports.
DUTIES : Supervise and participate in the development of strategic internal audit plans.
Identify the key risk areas for the institution emanating from current operations
as set out in the strategic plan and risk management strategy. Participate in the
development of the three-year strategic risk-based audit plans. Participate in
the development of the annual audit operational plan. Participate in the
coordination with other internal and external service providers of assurance to
ensure proper coverage to minimize duplication of effort. Supervise assistance
to and assist the accounting officer in maintaining efficient and effective
controls and achieving the objectives of the department by evaluating the
department’s controls/objectives, to determine their effectiveness and
efficiency through internal audits. Develop proposals to determine the scope of
allocated internal audits. Collect, analyze and interpret data for the
development of the engagement work program. Develop the engagement work
program. Supervise and execute the allocated internal audits. Develop findings
and recommendations for the enhancement of controls/processes. Compile
and review audit reports for each engagement. Monitor progress on the
implementation of agreed-upon action plans. Review, collect information and
compile reports to the accounting officer and audit committee. Progress reports
against the audit plan. Quarterly reports. Annual reports. Keep up to date with
new developments in the internal audit environment. This would, inter alia,
entail the following: Study professional journals and publications to ensure that
cognisance is taken of new developments. Monitor and study the relevant
industry, legislative, standards change, and policy frameworks continuously.
Engage in continuous professional development activities relevant to tools and
techniques as required/prescribed. Supervise employees to ensure an
effective internal audit service. This would, inter alia, entail the following.
General supervision of employees. Allocate duties and perform quality control
on the work delivered by supervisees. Advise and lead supervisees with regard
to all aspects of the work. Manage performance, conduct and discipline of
supervisees. Ensure that all supervisees are trained and developed to be able
to deliver work of the required standard efficiently and effectively. Provider
inputs for the enhancement of the audit methodologies and technologies.
ENQUIRIES : may be directed to Mr. Y Singqandu Tel No: (043) 605 5042/49
APPLICATIONS : e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
POST 39/167 : OFFICE MANAGER: PROGRAMME 2 - REF NO: DSD 04/10/2025
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Provincial Office. Bisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus B Degree/ N Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) in Public
Administration/ Management/ Office Management or equivalent qualification.
3-5years relevant experience at supervisory level (Level 7/8). A driver’s license
is a prerequisite. Competencies: Wide range of office management and
administrative tasks, structure and functioning of the department, conflict
management, project management, Communication (written and verbal),
policy analysis and development, planning and organizing, people
management, financial management, project coordination, problem solving
computer literacy, facilitation and presentation, stakeholder and client liaison,
monitoring, report writing, people orientated, creative, trustworthy, assertive,
hard-working, self-motivated, ability to work independently, ability to work
under pressure. Be Computer literate.
DUTIES : Manage and oversee logistics within the office of the Programme Manager,
manage the workflow of the Programme. Co-ordinate high-level meetings in all
aspects. Take charge of invitations and RSVP functions etc. Act as formal
channel of communication between office of the Programme Manager and
other departments and organisations. Compile briefing notes as well as other
documentation to adequately prepare the Programme Manager for such
meetings. Contribute to the development and promotion of the programmes
under the jurisdiction of the Programme Manager. Provide administration
119
support to the Programme Manager with regards to the management of the
Programme activities. Organise and attend certain region meetings. Liaise with
relevant stakeholders regarding outstanding information and issues. Manage
due dates of correspondence. Prepare documentation for meetings,
presentations and reports. Coordinate the preparation and compilation of
budget, procurement and cash flow projections for the Programme. Monitor
and report on the financial performance of the Programme. Undertake research
and develop appropriate policies, strategic programmes to be used to promote
the Programme. Ensure effective document management and correspondence
flow within the Office of Programme Manager. Consolidate all Director’s reports
to produce a monthly, quarterly, half yearly and annual Programme reports.
Establish and implement effective records and document management
systems. Coordinate responses to and submissions on, all requests for
information from the Office of the Programme Manager this includes Audit
Improvement Plan (AIP) and Risk Register of the Programme. Administer office
correspondence, documents, reports and advise the Programme Manager on
urgent matters to be attended. Manage communication and flow of information
in the office. Manage the processing of S&T claims, payments and invoices
relevant to the office. Manage budget in the Programme Manager’s office.
Coordinate and manage projects in the office of the Programme Manager.
Supervise employees to ensure an effective service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : may be directed to Mr. Y Singqandu Tel No: (043) 605 5042/49
APPLICATIONS : e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
POST 39/168 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: FINANCE REF NO: DSD 05/10/2025
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : NMM
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate / Equivalent qualification. Computer literacy. No
experience required. Competencies: Communication skills (verbal and written),
Interpersonal relations. Basic knowledge of Supply Chain duties, Practices as
well as ability to capture data and collect statistics. Basic knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service. Basic
knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working environment.
DUTIES : Perform general clerical duties in the Financial Management unit. Assist with
the reconciliation of accounts, ledgers, and bank statements. Maintain financial
records and filing systems. Process claims (travel, overtime, subsistence and
travel, petty cash, etc.). Assist in the preparation of budget reports and financial
statements. Capture and manage financial data and perform routine
calculations. Monitor and follow up on outstanding payments. Provide support
with asset management and inventory control. Perform administrative tasks
such as drafting correspondence, compiling reports, and managing office
documentation. Assist with internal and external audit processes. Adhere to
financial policies, procedures, and relevant legislation (e.g. PFMA, Treasury
Regulations).
ENQUIRIES : NMM enquiries may be directed to Ms L. Thompson Tel No: (041) 406-5750
APPLICATIONS : e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
POST 39/169 : ADMIN CLERK: ADMIN SUPPORT (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman: Kouga LSO Ref No: DSD 06/10/2025
Amathole: Mbashe LSO Ref No: DSD 07/10/2025
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate / Equivalent qualification. Computer literacy. No
experience required. Competencies: Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as
well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collect statistics.
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working
environment. Be Computer Literate.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. provide supply chain clerical support
services within the service office. Provide personnel administration and clerical
support services within the service office. Supervise and provide financial
administration support services in the service office. Capturing data on the
system.
ENQUIRIES : Sarah Baartman Enquiries may be directed to Mr. M Sipambo at 046 636-1484,
Amathole Enquiries may be directed to Ms Z Habe Tel No: (043) 711 6606
APPLICATIONS : e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
120
DEPARTMENT OF SPORT, RECREATION, ARTS & CULTURE
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted via one of the following options: (i) provincial
e-Recruitment system available at: https://ecprov.gov.za (under Careers)
and/or at https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za. The system is available 24/7
throughout and closes at 23:59 on the closing date. To report any challenges
pertaining e-Recruitment System, send an email with your ID Number, your
profile e-Mail Address and the details of the issue to:
erecruitment@ecsrac.gov.za. Do not submit any CVs to this email address;
should you do so, your application will be regarded as lost and will not be
considered. OR submit via one of the following options: direct to a specific
relevant centre:
Head Office: Qonce Enquiries – Mr. Y. Dlamkile Tel: 043 492 1386 / Mrs. R. E.
Swartbooi Tel: 043 492 0949 / 1400 / Hand deliver to: No. 5 Eales Street, Wilton
Zimasile Mkwayi Building, Qonce, 5605
Amathole Museum: Qonce Enquiries. F. Kigozi – 043 642 4506 – Amathole
Museum (Qonce) Hand deliver to Corner of Alexandra & Albert Road, Qonce.
East London Museum: East London Enquiries. G. Morcom – 043 743 0686
– EL Museum (East London) Hand deliver to 319 Oxford Street, Belgravia, East
London.
Albany Museum: Makanda Enquiries. Dr. P. Cimi – 046 622 2312 – Albany
Museum (Makanda) Hand deliver to 40 Somerset Street, Makanda.
OR Tambo District: Attention Mr. S. Stuma Tel: 047 495 0853 Hand deliver to:
Human Resource Management, 6th Floor, Botha Sigcau Building, corner
Leeds and Owen Street, Umtata.
Joe Gqabi District: Attention Mr P. Masepe / Ms. Ninifie: 051 492 4806 Hand
deliver to: No. 02 Cole Street, Maletswai.
Sarah Baartman District: Attention Ms. N. Qumza: 046 492 0223 Hand deliver
to: Registry, 1st floor, Corner African and Milner Street, Makanda.
Chris Hani District: Attention Mr. T. Thomas / Ms. A. Phanya: 045 492 0030 /
0054 Hand deliver to: Bathandwa Ndondo Building, Komani Hospital.
Nelson Mandela District: Attention Mr. S. Javu: 041 492 1288 Hand deliver
to: 66 Corporate Place, Ring Road, Greenacres, Newton Park, Gqeberha.
Applicants are encouraged to Use E-Recruitment System. People with
disabilities who meet the requirements will be given preference.
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
NOTE : Directions To Applicants: Applications must be submitted on a duly complete
New Z83 form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents until further notice, a fully
completed & signed Z83 form and a detailed Curriculum Vitae is compulsory–
NB: Z83 in the e-recruitment system is currently not downloadable and
therefore not signable; so, applicants who submitted applications via the e-
recruitment system will therefore not be disqualified for an unsigned Z83
instead will be requested to sign on interview day. Shortlisted candidates will
be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, and other relevant
documents to HR on or before the day of the interview: should you be in
possession of a foreign qualification; it must be accompanied by an evaluation
certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) when
submitted. Failure to submit all the requested documents will disqualify your
application. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If
you have not been contacted within six (6) months after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Selected
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, financial/asset record check, qualification/study
verification and previous employment verification). Successful candidates will
also be subjected to security clearance processes. Where applicable,
candidates will be subjected to a skills/knowledge test. Misrepresentation in
the application documents will result in automatic disqualification and
disciplinary action in the event the candidate has already been appointed. The
Department reserves the right not to make appointment(s) to the advertised
post(s). Persons with disability and people from previously disadvantaged
groups are encouraged to apply. Employment equity targets of the department
will be adhered to. To report technical glitches, for assistance regarding the
system, and/or for activation of your profile, send an email with your ID Number,
your profile email address, details of the issue to erecruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
121
(NB: NOT CVs). Technical support is limited to working hours: (08:00-16:30
Mon-Thursday and 08:00-16:00 on Fridays). Should you submit your
applications/CVs to erecruitment@ecsrac.gov.za and not as specified – your
application will be regarded as lost and will not be considered. People with
disabilities who meet the requirements will be given preference
OTHER POSTS
POST 39/170 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ADMIN SUPPORT & COORDINATION REF NO:
DSRAC 01/10/2025
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration)
CENTRE : Head Office – (Qonce)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma Level 6/7 Preferable
appropriate B Degree NQF Level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Office
Administration/Public Administration or equivalent relevant qualification
coupled with at least 3 years at Assistant Director /Jnr Management Level in
the Executive Administrative Support and coordination field. Good command
of written and oral English and any other official language. Knowledge of
strategic coordination/ planning and professional report writing. Knowledge of
formats and routes of documentation throughout the department. Quality
control of documents. Knowledge and understanding of hierarchy and
management structure of the Executive Authority office. Policies, legislation,
and procedures; Public Service and Departmental procedures and prescripts.
In possession of the following skills: Organizing skills; Facilitation skills;
Communication skills; Computer literacy and technical writing skills. Ability to
communicate with ministries, senior management, officials, and the public in a
professional manner. Ability to work individually and in a team. Good
interpersonal relations. Ability to work with difficult persons and to resolve
conflict. Sense of responsibility and loyalty; Objectiveness; Integrity; Service
orientated; Self supervision; Highly developed sense of honesty and protect
the confidentiality of documents. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support services in the office of the EA. Perform
administrative responsibilities to ensure the smooth running of the MEC’s
office. Manage physical and financial resources of the MECs Office. Goods
and services successfully procured for the Office of the MEC. Ensure that office
report is fully compiled. Ensure that the office of the MEC is successfully
managed and functional. Organise and facilitate sessions for portfolio
questions. Provide registry support services in the office of the EA. Provide
registry counter service. Handle incoming and outgoing correspondence.
Render an effective filling and record management services. Ensure the
safekeeping of all documents for archiving and disposal. Develop and
implement records management policies. Provide logistical support for
meetings. Setting standards in effective cost control. Cost Control: generate
cost control analysis of the office activities quarterly and suggest adjustments
to the Chief of Staff. Monitor travel arrangements and accommodation for the
Office of the MEC. Make sure that the newspapers are delivered on daily basis.
Management of strategic support. Give input in the development of strategic,
Business/Operational and procurement plans. Analyse, Identify and Compile
monthly and quarterly Reports. Manage administration support. Facilitate
management of EPMDS and provide support to all staff. Manage human
resources (attendance register & leave records). Monitor financial resources
(budget, cash flow projections & in-year monitoring). Ensure performance
development and training needs analysis of staff.
ENQUIRIES : S. MPAFA Tel No: (043) 492 1405 Head Office (Qonce)
e- Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 39/171 : SCIENTIST PRODUCTION REF NO: DSRAC 02/10/2025
SALARY : R761 157 – R816 852 per annum, (OSD), (an all-inclusive remuneration)
CENTRE : Albany Museum (Makanda)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a NQF Level 8 in Zoology (specialising in
freshwater invertebrates) or relevant natural science qualification with a
minimum of two (2) years relevant experience in a museum natural science
environment. A member of South African Council of Natural Scientific
Professionals will be considered as an added advantage. Compulsory
122
registration with SACNASP as a professional Natural Scientist. Knowledge of
public service regulations, legislations/ policies/ prescripts and procedures.
Occupational Health and Safety prescripts. Knowledge of Eastern Cape
Museum Act. National Environmental management: Biodiversity Act,
Operational standards for natural science museum, South African National
Standards for Museums. Knowledge of Research and dissection microscopes
and collection management standards, ability to recognise diagnostic
characteristics on which classification system are based. Computer
knowledge, laboratory protocol, database and word computer packages,
Natural science, financial management. Programme and project management.
Communication skills, Report writing skills, People management skills,
Customer or client orientated approach. A valid driving licence.
DUTIES : Develop and implement methodologies, policies, systems and procedures.
Identify and consolidate needs for methodologies, policies, systems and
procedures. Identify gaps and develop appropriate interventions. Monitor and
evaluate programme performance. Perform scientific functions that require
interpretation in the absence of an established framework. Provide scientific
support and advice. Develop working relations with client base. Create public
awareness of the science system. Provide scientific data, information and
advice as requested. Review scientific publications. To perform scientific
analysis and regulatory functions. Conduct analysis of scientific data. Gather
and interpret data, evaluate results and disseminate information. Apply
appropriate scientific models to generate information and knowledge.
Formulate proposals and compile reports. Develop and customize models and
techniques. Conduct research and development. Continuous professional
development to keep up with new technologies and procedures. Conduct basic
and applied research. Research/literature studies to improve expertise. Public
and present research findings. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on science-
related matters. Management of human capital development Mentor, train and
develop candidate scientists and others to promote skills/knowledge transfer
and adherence to sound scientific principles and code of practice. Supervise
scientific work processes. Manage the performance and development of staff.
ENQUIRIES : P. CIMI Tel No: (046) 622 2313 Albany Museum (Makanda)
e- Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 39/172 : LIBRARIAN REF NO: DSRAC 03/10/2025
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07), (an all-inclusive remuneration)
CENTRE : Amathole Museum (Qonce)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma or Degree/ B Tech (NQF
Level 6) in Library Information Science or any relevant qualification with at least
1 to 2 years working experience in a Library Service environment. Knowledge
of Public Library administration, norms and standards of service, Library Policy
and Procedures, Batho Pele Principles, Interpersonal skills and computer
literacy. Good computer, organising, communication, and report writing skills,
excellent human, and interpersonal relations. Sound knowledge of
stakeholders. A valid driving license.
DUTIES : Render effective collection development and provision of museum library
material, Analyse content and classify all library materials, maintain integrity of
the catalogue through updates and implementation of cataloguing
developments, perform library material/book selection and acquisition, liaise
and communicate with affiliated libraries on information needs, provide a
centralized subject information request service to affiliated libraries and their
users, Conduct monitoring and evaluation visits to libraries and make
recommendations on service delivery enhancements, Review and recommend
published material for selection and reading promotion, research and assist in
the development of library collection policies and procedures and public
exhibitions, render outreach programmes and public reading, Implement library
promotional initiatives in organized events. Compilation of monthly user
statistics and report writing. Provide professional guidance on the management
of libraries to stakeholders, explore and propose the potential strategic
collaborations between museum library and other libraries.
ENQUIRIES : S. Cakata Tel No: (043) 642 4506 – Amathole Museum (Qonce)
e- Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : These posts are earmarked for persons with disabilities.
123
POST 39/173 : LIBRARIAN (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07), (an all-inclusive remuneration)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela District (Gqeberha):
Colchester Library Ref No: DSRAC 06/10/2025(1)
Kwazekhele Library Ref No: DSRAC 06/10/2025(2)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma or Bibl. Degree/ B Tech
(NQF Level 6) in Library Information Studies or any relevant qualification with
at least 1 to 2 years working experience in a Library and Information Service
field. Knowledge of public service legislation, policies, and prescripts. Basic
knowledge of library and information science procedures and processes. Good
computer, organising, communication, and report writing skills, excellent
human, and interpersonal relations. Sound knowledge of stakeholders. A valid
driving license.
DUTIES : Implement awareness campaigns, reading programmes and promotion of
library use to all communities. Implement stock control of all library material.
Manage, receive & reconcile library material from the district office. Attend to
user needs. Compilation of monthly user statistics and report writing.
Participate in crafting of the business plan. Management of library assets.
Implement annual recovery of monies. Establish & sustainment of library
structures including book clubs. Management of library resources, mini-lib
services & ICT equipment. Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : S. Javu / T. Sandi Tel No: (041) 492 1288 / 1230 / 1231 / 1232 – (Gqeberha)
e- Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : These posts are earmarked for persons with disabilities. Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 39/174 : SPORT PROMOTION OFFICER: SPORT DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DSRAC
07/10/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07), (an all-inclusive remuneration)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District (Komani)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification. A minimum of three-year
Degree/Diploma (NQF level 6) as recognised by SAQA in Sport Management
/ Sport Administration / Human Movement studies, or any relevant qualification
coupled with 1 to 2 years’ relevant experience in Sport and Recreation
environment. Competencies: Good communication and organising skills.
Knowledge of relevant pre-scrips in sport and recreation. Ability to work under
pressure. Knowledge of understanding the departmental policies and
procedures. Coaching and mentoring skills. Project and event management
skills. Basic computer skills. Basic knowledge of Financial Administration.
Report writing skills, Presentation skills will be an added advantage.
Knowledge of relevant prescripts. Exposure in several codes or federations. A
valid driving license is required.
DUTIES : Coordinate the establishment and provide support to sport and recreation
structures in schools, wards and local areas, in conjunction with the
stakeholder. Establish and maintain sport and recreation structures and clubs
in schools, wards and local areas. Provide support services to federations,
clubs and school sport structures. Render support to provincial sport academy
and satellites. Implement programmes to increase and improve relations
between sport and recreation stakeholders. Establish good governance
structures of sport and recreation as dictated by relevant legislation. Facilitate
sustainable capacity development programmes in sport within schools, wards,
local areas and districts. Facilitate capacity-building programmes. Create an
enabling environment for talent identification. Administer coach education in
terms of different sporting codes. Monitor and evaluate progress of education
and training activities. Promote sports and skills management. Implement sport
and recreation programmes in the schools, wards, local areas for the
development of sport and recreation. Perform events
management/coordination activities. Liaise with hubs, sport federations, sport
councils and academy to increase the number of participants in sports and
recreation activities. Implement programmes to increase and improve relations
between sports and recreation stakeholders. Plan, develop and implement
school and community sports, school and community mass participation and
high-performance programmes. Formulate and administer league-related
sports programmes. Promote health and fitness in communities. Provide an
oversight role in the implementation of sports academy and recreation council
124
programmes. Encourage all levels of communities to participate in different
codes of sport and recreation activities. Coordinate flagship programmes
through sport and recreation activities. Monitor and evaluate the compliance
with sport and recreation transformational policies. Monitor the implementation
of all transformation policies and programmes. Promote gender mainstream in
sport and recreation. Promote integrated programmes of all sector
departments and relevant stakeholders. Promote awareness and participation
to all ages, gender and capability categories. Render administrative functions
in relation to programmes that are implemented. Collect, analyze, compile and
update data in all sport and recreational activities. Provide administrative and
technical support with regard to sports and recreation facilities and
infrastructure. Administer the system for storage, maintenance issue and return
of sport and physical recreation equipment. Examine, compile and monitor
transfer payments of funded projects.
ENQUIRIES : T. Thomas Tel No: (045) 492 0030 / 0054 – Chris Hani District (Komani)
e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 39/175 : GENERAL ASSISTANT REF NO: DSRAC 04/10/2025
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02), (an all-inclusive remuneration)
CENTRE : Albany Museum (Makanda)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 8 certificate or ABET level 4 or NQF leve1 - 3 with no experience.
Performing General Assistant duties will be an added advantage. Must be able
to write and read. Good interpersonal skills. Good Verbal and written
communication skills. Self–motivated. A valid driving licence will be an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Ensure prompt delivery and safe keeping of information. Delivery of documents
within and other departments. Photocopying and faxing documents. Render
transport services for provincial library staff. Ferry officials and stakeholders to
departmental events. Report all defects to the relevant official. Perform general
assistant work. Load and off load furniture, equipment, and any other goods to
relevant destination. Collection and delivery of items and correspondence.
Collect and deliver mail to various offices. Load and offload furniture,
equipment, and any other goods to relevant destinations. Assist in making
photocopies. Paste notices on notice board. Provide cleaning services. Clean
offices, boardroom, and walkways. Clean relevant workstations (workshops
and exhibition rooms). Clean general kitchen. Clean restrooms (check toilet
paper). Keep and maintain cleaning materials and equipment. Report broken
cleaning machines and equipment. Clean machines (microwaves, vacuum)
and equipment after use. Request cleaning material. Prepare venue for
functions and meetings. Prepare and wash all utensils to be used (kettle, cups,
saucers, glasses, and jugs). Prepare tea during meetings. Assist during
functions. Perform any other duties related to general assistant work that may
arise or tasked by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : P. Cimi Tel No: (046) 622 2313 – Albany Museum (Makanda)
e- Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 39/176 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: DSRAC 05/10/2025
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02), (an all-inclusive remuneration)
CENTRE : EL Museum (East London)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 8 certificate or ABET Level 4 or NQF Level 1–3 with no experience.
Experience in gardening, grounds maintenance or general assistant duties will
be an added advantage. Must be able to read and write. Good interpersonal,
verbal and written communication skills. Self-motivated.
DUTIES : Maintain lawns, flowerbeds, trees and pathways around the museum. Water
plants, remove weeds, prune shrubs and trees, mow grass, and sweep outdoor
areas. Relocate plants and trees, remove garden refuse, and assist with care
and pest control of the cycad collection. Clean paved surfaces using high-
pressure equipment. Keep signage, benches, bins, storerooms, and public
spaces neat and presentable. Care for gardening tools and equipment; detect
and report malfunctioning tools or maintenance issues such as leaks or broken
lights. Assist with moving and setting up exhibition materials, showcases,
furniture, and display cases. Help with the construction, assembly, and
maintenance of museum displays and exhibition structures under supervision.
125
Provide cleaning services in exhibition rooms, workshops, and storage areas.
Set up chairs, tables, and equipment for school visits, talks, and community
events. Assist with venue preparation and clean-up before and after functions.
Support caretakers and cleaners as required. Perform any other duties related
to grounds and facility upkeep or general assistant work as assigned by the
supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : G. Morcom Tel No: (043) 743 0686 – EL Museum (East London)
e- Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME/IN-SERVICE TRAINING FOR 2025 - 2027
(24 MONTHS)
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
NOTE : Directions To Applicants: The objective of the Internship program withing the
public service, is to address the problem of youth unemployment, especially
tertiary (Institutions of higher learning) graduates by providing them with work
experience opportunities in the public service. As per the Directive issued by
DPSA on the employment of persons to developmental programmes in the
public service: Internship, Learnership, Apprenticeship, Graduate recruitment
schemes and related programmes, this Internship programme is specifically
aimed on the following: Interns need to be graduates and unemployed. Interns
need to be within their specific demographic area. The internship should not
exceed a period of 24 months, meaning candidates cannot enter into an
internship program more than once. During the tenure of the contract, the youth
will receive continuous learning and development interventions to improve their
skills through on-the-job training initiatives for optimal performance and to
equip them for future employment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 39/177 : TECHNICAL INTERN ARCHIVES REPOSITRY (DIGITIZATION) REF NO:
DSRAC 08/10/2025 (X5 POSTS)
Directorate: Archives & Records Management
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month for graduates.
CENTRE : Head Office (Qonce)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma (NQF level 6 as recognised
by SAQA) in Archives & Records Management or other relevant qualifications.
History as a major subject will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Evaluate collection, establish order, group related items according to levels –
repository, series, file unit and item level. Classify materials based on
predefined categories or series. Assign labels to each category and individual
item for easy identification. Develop comprehensive lists of the materials,
noting their locations and descriptions. Identify and handle duplicate items
appropriately. Create detailed descriptions for each item or collection, including
relevant information such as dates, creators, and subjects. Develop tools to
help users locate and understand the records. Apply standardized metadata to
ensure consistency and facilitate searching. Prepare documents for scanning,
scan documents according to agreed type of image. Scanning of records and
ensure high image resolution and conduct quality assurance checks for every
image developed. These posts are earmarked for persons with disabilities.
ENQUIRIES : S. Cetywayo Tel No: (043) 492 0936 – District & Qonce
e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 39/178 : INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ICT INTERN REF NO: DSRAC 09/09/2025
(X3 POSTS)
Directorate: Information Technology (Data Analyst-Scientist/Systems’
Development/ Support)
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month for graduates.
CENTRE : Head Office (Qonce)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma (NQF level 6 as recognised
by SAQA) in IT; Business Applications; Software Development; Technical
Programming. Mathematical Statistics, Computer Science, Applied
Mathematics, or other relevant & equivalent qualifications. Advantageous
126
Additional Certificates/ Courses: Big Data; Data Analysis & Modelling (Pandas,
NumPy, Matplotlib, seaborn, SciPy); Machine learning and Deep Learning
(Sklearn, TensorFlow, Keras, Pytorch); Data visualization (Power BI, Tableau);
Coding/IDEs (Python, Jupyter, Spyder, Pycharm, R programming) will be an
added advantage.
DUTIES : Providing functional, technical support and data analysis related services for
departmental systems especially Isisele modules, Intranet and Website.
Working with the designated applications/systems business functionality; and
use technical and analytical expertise to locate and resolve
applications/systems related problems. Provide system related advisory
service to departmental users and help-desk services. Providing training for
users for designated systems. Provide data analytic/analysis related services.
Work closely with business to identify issues and use data to propose solutions
for effective decision making. Build algorithms and design experiments to
merge, manage.
ENQUIRIES : S. Cetywayo Tel No: (043) 492 0936 – District & Qonce
e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT: GFMS
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted only via the provincial e-Recruitment system
available at: https://ecprov.gov.za (under Careers) and/or at
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za. The system is available 24/7 throughout and
closes at 23:59 on the closing date. To report any challenges pertaining e-
Recruitment System, send an email with your ID Number, your profile e-Mail
Address and the details of the issue to: Yanginkosi.Tetani@ectransport.gov.za.
Do not submit any CVs to this email address; should you do so, your application
will be regarded as lost and will not be considered. No Hand-Delivered/ No
Emailed / No Faxed / No Posted applications will be accepted.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly completed new Z83 (effective from
01 January 2021) form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on
the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents.Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must fully populate information on the E-Recruitment system and submit a fully
completed and signed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. NB: Z83 in the
E-Recruitment system is currently not signable; so, applicants who submitted
applications via the E-Recruitment system will not be disqualified for an
unsigned Z83 instead will be requested to sign on interview day. Under My Job
Applications, system Z83 does not reflect work experience and qualifications,
however, every detail of your information does reflect to the Recruitment team.
Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications, and other relevant documents to HR on or before the interview
date. Applicants with foreign qualifications would be required to submit an
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) on
or before the day of the interview. Failure to submit all the requested documents
will disqualify the application. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within six (6) months after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability
check (criminal record check, citizenship verification, financial/asset record
check, qualification/study verification and previous employment verification).
Successful candidates will also be subjected to security clearance processes.
Where applicable, candidates will be subjected to a skills/knowledge test. The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Successful
candidates will be appointed on a probation period of twelve 12/24 months.
Misrepresentation in the application documents will result in automatic
disqualification and disciplinary action in the event the candidate has already
been appointed. It is the department’s objective to address the Employment
Equity Affirmative Action Measures in line with the Employment Equity Plan
and to achieve equitable representation across race and gender. In the filling
of these posts gender equity and people living with disability will be highly
considered to adhere to the EE targets of the department. The Department
reserves the right to amend/ review/ withdraw advertised posts if by so doing,
the best interest of the department will be well served. (Females and People
127
with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications).
OTHER POSTS
POST 39/179 : AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBER
Three (3) Years Contract
The Eastern Cape Department of Transport- Government Fleet Management
Services Trading Entity calls on all independent, suitably qualified and
interested persons to serve as an Audit Committee member for a period of
three (3) years.
SALARY : Terms of Office and Remuneration: Appointment and Remuneration will be in
accordance with the Provincial Treasury Instruction Note No.6 of 2014/15 -
Framework for Appointment and remuneration of Audit Committee Members.
CENTRE : East London
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a tertiary qualification in Information and Communication
Technology, Law, Risk management, Business Management/Administration or
any relevant qualification to the services provided by the Department of
Transport – Government Fleet Management Services Trading Entity. A
candidate must have operated at an Executive Level of an organization for a
minimum of five (5) years in the field relevant to the tertiary qualification. Served
in the Audit Committee or any governance structures for the minimum of two
(2) years. Be a member of recognized professional body. Understanding of the
oversight and regulatory framework governing public sector in terms of PFMA,
Treasury Regulations, etc. is required Skills and Competencies: Be
independent and knowledgeable with experience in participating in the
governance structures. Be able to dedicate time to the activities of the Audit
Committee. Have strong analytical abilities, persuasion and good
communication skills.
DUTIES : Monitor and review performance & effectiveness of the Internal Audit Function
including approval of Internal Audit Services Coverage Plans & Policies.
Review AGSA’s independence, objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit
process. Review AFS for abnormal and/or significant transactions of the entity
and the disclosures thereof in the AFS and advise accordingly. Consider the
Entity’s risk and ethics management policies and advise management on
strategies to effectively implement these programmes. Monitor and review
financial and non-financial performance of the entity against service delivery
expectations. Review the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control
and governance systems. Consider ICT infrastructure and systems for
adequacy and effectiveness in the delivery of services. Review compliance
with legal and regulatory provisions. Audit Committee will report directly to the
Head of Department and the Member of the Executive Council (MEC) of the
Department of Transport and may be requested to appear and present to other
oversight structures. Preference will be given to candidates with experience in
the ICT operations, Law and Risk Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Nyalela at 082 6484 972, Noluthando. Nyalela@ectransport.qov.za
For e-Recruitment technical support email to:
Yanginkosi.Tetani@ectransport.gov.za
POST 39/180 : INDEPENDENT RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE CHAIRPERSON
(Three (3) Years Contract)
The Eastern Cape Department of Transport- Government Fleet Management
Services Trading Entity calls on suitable qualified and interested persons to
serve as the Entity Chairperson of Risk and Ethics Management Committee
(REMC) for a period of three (3) years.
SALARY : Terms Of Office and Remuneration: This appointment is for a period of three
years but may be renewed at the discretion of the Head of Entity. This is not a
full-time appointment, Risk and Ethics Management Committee has four
statutory meetings per annum, and additional meetings may be convened by
the Chairperson as deemed necessary, by the Committee or Head of Entity.
Appointment and Remuneration will be in accordance with the Provincial
Treasury Instruction Note No.6 of 2014/15.
CENTRE : East London
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant bachelor’s degree and a Post-Graduate Degree in risk management,
auditing, governance, law, accounting, or other public sector relevant
128
qualifications. CA(SA)/CIA/CFE/CRP Prof/ Certified Ethics Officer and Certified
Fraud Examiner will be an added advantage. The ideal candidate should have
5 to 10 years’ Senior Management experience gained from Strategic
Management, Finance, Risk Management/Anti-Fraud and Corruption
environment and/or an Auditing / Financial, preferably in the public service.
Strong Risk management, Ethics Management, Fraud Risk management,
Business Continuity Management, ICT or Audit background, and an intimate
knowledge of public sector processes. Skills And Competencies: Be
independent and knowledgeable with experience in participating in governance
structures. Be able to dedicate time to the activities of the Risk & Ethics
Management Committee. Have strong analytical abilities, and good
communication skills.
DUTIES : The Risk & Ethics Management Committee is an oversight committee
appointed by the Head of Entity to assist him to discharge his Risk & Ethics
Management responsibilities in terms of the approved Terms of Reference.
Review the Risk & Ethics Management policies, fraud policies, frameworks,
strategies, and plans before recommending approval by Head of Entity. Review
the business continuity management policy, strategy, and plans before
recommending approval by the Head of Entity. Review the Entity’s risk
assessment methodologies to obtain reasonable assurance. Report any
material change to the risk profile of the Entity to the Head of Entity. Review
any material findings and recommendations by assurance providers on the
system of risk management, and check that appropriate action is instituted to
address identified weakness. Evaluate the effectiveness of monitoring systems
pertaining to fraud and corruption and the results of management’s
investigations into and follow-up of alleged acts of impropriety (fraud,
corruption) and related matters. Providing strategic advice to leadership on
ethical issues. Provide support to Chief Risk Officer in promoting integration
and collaboration of various ethics-related functions (such as anti-fraud and
anti-corruption, compliance, internal audit and investigations Attendance of
Audit Committee meetings as Chairperson of Risk and Ethics Management
Committee.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Y Kunene at 060 989 4593, Yanqa Kunene@ectransport.qov.za
For e-Recruitment technical support email to:
Yanginkosi.Tetani@ectransport.gov.za
129
ANNEXURE Q
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
APPLICATIONS : Directions to applicants: Applications must only be done via the online
recruitment platform for the Department at: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-
Recruitment
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
NOTE : Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. The application must
indicate the correct Job title, the office where the position is advertised and the
Reference number as stated in the advert. Failure by the applicant to fully
complete the application form will lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applications filed by hand on the Z83 will
unfortunately not be considered. Should you be in a possession of foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Dual citizenship holders must
provide the Police Clearance certificate from country of origin when shortlisted.
All non-SA Citizens will be required to submit a copy of proof of South African
permanent residence when shortlisted. Applications that do not comply with the
above-mentioned requirements will not be considered. Suitable candidates will
be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, financial checks,
qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference checks and employment
verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered. The
Department does not accept applications via fax or post. Failure to upload and
submit all the requested documents will result in the application not being
considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will be
expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance agreement
within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo a security
clearance three (3) months after appointment.
OTHER POST
POST 39/181 : FORENSIC PATHOLOGY OFFICER GRADE 1 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R217 092 per annum
CENTRE : Welkom Forensic Mortuary Ref No: FPO/ 01/2025 (X3 Posts)
Kroonstad Forensic Mortuary Ref No: FPO/02/2025 (X1 Post)
Phuthaditjhaba Forensic Mortuary Ref No: FPO /03/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Valid driver's license. Skills And
Knowledge: Driving Skills. Verbal and written communication, time
management, good interpersonal relations. Commitment to Batho Pele
Principles. Basic Computer Skills. Basic Knowledge regarding the legislative
framework regulating Forensic Pathology Services. Ability to work with human
remains (corpses) which may be in advance stage of decomposition. Ability to
work under pressure and after normal hours.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient collection of corpses from crime or accident scenes as
requested by South African Police Services (SAPS) for safekeeping and
perseveration of evidence. Assist medical officers with performing medico-legal
investigation on deceased human remains. Arrange postmortems with
Pathologist. Assist Pathologists with postmortems. Assist families with
identification and handing over of corpses to the next of kin or funeral
undertakers. Attend and give evidence in courts of law when required. Assist
with up keeping of facility and equipment hygienically in terms of Occupational
Health and Safety.
ENQUIRIES : Mr OT Kopane, Assistant Manager: Forensic Pathology Services. Email:
kopaneOT@fshealth.gov.za Cell: 0834494536
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be done at: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
130
ANNEXURE R
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
Limpopo Department of Social Development is an equal opportunity and Affirmative Action Employer.
Designed race groups, females and People with disabilities remain our target and are encouraged to
apply.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are hereby invited to apply for the funded vacant posts as
advertised. Applicants who previously applied for the re-advertised posts they
are encouraged to re-apply if still interested. Applicants are encouraged to
register and submit their applications through the e-Recruitment website at
https://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za, Applications should be addressed to
various institution as per the applicant’s need,
Head Office, Seshego Treatment Centre and Mavambe Secure Care Centre:
Applications should be directed to Head of Department, Private Bag X 9710,
Polokwane, 0700 or submitted at: 21 Biccard Street, Olympic Towers Building,
Ground Floor, Office no 30.
Polokwane Welfare Complex: Applications should be directed Head of
Institution, Private Bag X 9713, Polokwane, 0700 or hand delivered at Plot 303
Strekloop, Polokwane. Capricorn District/Sekutupu Old Age Home: The District
Director, Private Bag X 9709, Polokwane, 0700 or hand delivered at 34 Hans
Van Rensburg, Polowane.
Sekhukhune District: The District Director, Private Bag X80, Lebowakgomo,
0737 or hand delivered at Old Parliament Building Lebowakgomo.
Vhembe District: The District Director, Private Bag X5040, Thohoyandou,
0950 or hand delivered at Thohoyandou Child and Youth Care Centre,
Thohoyandou Block F Punda Maria Road, Thohoyandou.
Waterberg District: The District Director, Private Bag X1051, Modimolle, 0510
or hand delivered at Cnr Elias Motswaledi & Thabo Mbeki Street, Modimolle.
Mopani District: The District Director, Private Bag X9689, Giyani, 0826 or
should be hand delivered at Department of Social Development Unigaza Road
Giyani Section A, 0826.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025 at 16h00
NOTE : however, hand delivery applications are acceptable and must be submitted on
the new Z83 application form obtained from all Government Departments or
can be downloaded from www.gov.za / www.dpsa.gov.za / www.labour.gov.za.
The new Z83 form must be fully completed and signed by the applicant. The
following must be considered in relation to the completion of the Z83 by
applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D must be completed. In Part
B, all fields should be completed in full except the following: South African
applicants need not provide passport numbers. If an applicant responded “No”
to the question “Are you conducting business with the State or are you a
Director of a Public or Private company conducting business with the State?
Then it is acceptable for an applicant to indicate not applicable or leave blank
to the question. If yes (provide detail), “In the event that you are employed in
the Public Service, will you immediately relinquish such business interest?”.
Applicants may leave the following question blank if they are not in possession
of such: “If your profession or occupation requires official registration, provide
date and particulars of registration”. Noting there is limited space provided for
Part E, F & G, applicants often indicate “refer to Curriculum Vitae (CV) or see
attached”, this is acceptable as long as the CV has been attached and provides
the required information. If the information is not provided in the CV, the
applicant may be disqualified. It must be noted that a CV is an extension of the
application of employment Z83, and applicants are accountable for the
information that is provided therein. The questions related to conditions that
prevent re-appointment under Part F must be answered. Applicants with
foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their qualifications
are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and to
provide proof of such evaluation. Applicants are not required to submit certified
copies of educational qualifications, academic records, current registration with
the relevant statutory body, Identity documents and a valid motor vehicle
driver’s license (where required) but must submit a duly completed Z83
application for employment form, and a detailed CV. Shortlisted candidates will
131
be required to come for an interview, at which time, certified copies of all
relevant qualifications, current registration with the relevant statutory body,
copy of ID and a valid motor vehicle driver’s license (where required) must be
submitted. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One shall be a practical exercise, and the other shall be an
Integrity [Ethical Conduct], an Assessment as per Directive on Human
Resource Management and Development for Public Service
Professionalization effective from 01 April 2024. The successful candidate will
be subjected to security clearance [Vetting] as per the Directive on Human
Resource Management and Development for Public Service
Professionalization effective from 01 April 2024. NB: Applicants are
encouraged to comply with Practice note on the Z83 application for
employment DPSA Circular 19 of 2022, Clarification regarding the completion
of Z83 application DPSA circular 3 of 2025 and other related matters. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment to the posts
advertised. The employment decision shall among other determination be
informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. The Limpopo
Department of Social Development is an equal opportunity and Affirmative
Action Employer. Designed race groups, females and People with disabilities
remain our target and are encouraged to apply. Correspondence will be
entered into with short-listed candidates only due to a large number of
applications we envisage to receive, if you have not heard from the Department
within ninety (90) day from the closing date, consider your application
unsuccessful. However, Faxed applications will not be considered. Recognition
of experience on appointment will be considered for Social Service Professions
in line with Occupational Dispensation prescripts. The contents of this circular
will also be posted on the following websites www.dsd.limpopo.gov.za /
www.limpopo.gov.za / www.dpsa.gov.za, Provincial Departments website and
social media. Please note: Due to austerity measure, the department will not
carry any related costs (transport, accommodation, and meals) for candidates
attending interviews.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 39/182 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: SERVICE DELIVERY COORDINATION REF NO:
DSD/2025/166 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 7 or equivalent qualification in Social
Sciences / Public Administration / Management / Social Work as recognised by
SAQA. A minimum of five (05) years of proven experience Senior Management
level. Proof of completion of SMS pre-entry programme must be submitted
before appointment. Valid motor vehicle driver’s license (with exception of
persons with disabilities). Core and Process Competencies: Strategic
Capability and Leadership, Programme and Project Management, Change
Management, Financial Management, People Management and
Empowerment, Knowledge Management, Problem Solving and analysis, Client
orientation and customer focus, Communication. Knowledge And Skills:
Knowledge of Public Service Regulations, Acts, policies and procedures.
Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Leadership &
Management skills. Communications. Conflict management. Policy analysis
and interpretation skill. Report writing skills. Project Management. Problem
analysis and analytical thinking.
DUTIES : Provide leadership and high-level strategic direction and policy in the branch.
Manage the provision of district management services. Manage the provision
of NPO governance and compliance service. Manage the provision of
institutional capacity building and support. Establish partnerships with various
stakeholders. Manage financial, administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 39/183 : DIRECTOR: INTERNAL CONTROL AND COMPLIANCE REF DSD/2025/167
(X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
132
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 7 or equivalent qualification in
Financial Management / Auditing as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of five
(05) years of proven relevant experience at Middle /Senior Management level.
Chartered Accountant will be an added advantage. Proof of completion of SMS
pre-entry programme must be submitted before appointment. Valid motor
vehicle driver’s license (with exception of persons with disabilities). Core and
Process Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership, Programme and
Project Management, Change Management, Financial Management, People
Management and Empowerment, Knowledge Management, Problem Solving
and analysis, Client orientation and customer focus, Communication.
Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of Public Service Regulations, Acts, policies
and procedures. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA).
Leadership & Management skills. Communications. Conflict management.
Policy analysing and interpretation skill. Report writing skills. Project
Management. Problem analysis and analytical thinking.
DUTIES : Develop business plan in line with the strategic objective of the department.
Provide leadership and strategic direction in the sub-branch. Coordinate
sectional and the work of governance structures. Facilitate assurance services.
Coordinate system control function /services. Coordinate fraud prevention
strategies and loss control. Manage financial, administrative and related
functions. Ensure the identification, assessment, and mitigation of risks
associated with governance, internal controls, and compliance. Coordinate and
facilitate both internal and external audits. Design and facilitate capacity-
building and training programs for staff on internal control, governance, and
compliance matters.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 39/184 : DIRECTOR: GOVERNMENT INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY OFFICE REF
NO: DSD/2025/168 (X1 POST)
(Re-advert)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 7 or equivalent qualification in
Information Management / Information Technology/Information Science /
Computer Science as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of five (05) years of
proven experience at Middle/Senior Management level in Government
Information Technology Office. Proof of completion of SMS pre-entry
programme must be submitted before appointment. Valid motor vehicle driver’s
license (with exception of persons with disabilities). Core And Process
Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership, Programme and Project
Management, Change Management, Financial Management, People
Management and Empowerment, Knowledge Management, Problem Solving
and analysis, Client orientation and customer focus, Communication.
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Public Service Regulations, Acts, policies
and procedures. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA).
Leadership & Management skills. Communications. Conflict management.
Policy analysis and interpretation skill. Report writing skills. Project
Management. Problem analysis and analytical thinking. Leadership &
Management skills. Report writing skills. Project Management. Problem
analysis and analytic thinking.
DUTIES : Align the department’s information management (information management
systems included) and information technology (as enabler) strategy with the
strategic direction, management plans and the business processes of the
department, with due consideration of the strategic direction of the
Government. Develop departmental supporting information management and
information technology enabler policies and strategies, regulations, standards,
norms, guidelines, best practices and procedures, derived from the national
information management and information technology policy and strategy,
standards and norms developed by the GITO Council and DPSA, but focussed
on the specific requirements of the department. Represent the relevant
department at the GITO Council. Promote effective management of information
and information technology as enabler as a strategic resource. Manage the
SITA relationship: This entails control of the Business Agreement (BA) and
133
Service Level Agreements (SLA’s) with SITA and/or other suppliers of
information management and information technology goods and services.
Utilization of security mechanisms and ensure compliance to the relevant
regulatory framework. Responsible for ensuring development and training of
the members in the department in relevant information technology matters.
Manage Auxiliary Services. Manage Records Management. Manage Financial,
Administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
OTHER POSTS
POST 39/185 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR GRADE 1 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R477 564 per annum, (Level: SW-A4)
CENTRE : Vhembe District Ref No: DSD/2025/169 (X1 Post)
Mopani District: Lulekani Ref No: DSD/2025/170 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 7 or equivalent in Social Work as
recognised by SAQA. Current registration with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions (SACSSP). A minimum experience of seven (07)
years in social work after registration with the SACSSP. Valid motor vehicle
driver’s licence. (with exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge And
Skills: Computer Skills. Interpersonal Skills. Communication Skills. Report
Writing Skills. Management and Evaluation Skills. Knowledge of supervision
model within the sector. Knowledge of relevant programmes in Social Work. In-
depth knowledge of social work service delivery model. People management
and empowerment. Knowledge of NPO Governance.
DUTIES : Ensure that social work services are rendered with regard to the care, support,
protection and development of vulnerable individual, groups, families and
communities through the relevant programmes. Ensure service compliance to
norms and standards. Ensure social worker’s compliance with South African
Council for Social Service Professions [SACSSP] projects. Supervise and
advise social workers and social auxiliary workers. Coordinate and manage all
programmes including transformation of social welfare services. Rendering
support and mentoring social workers. Rendering counselling to clients.
Monitoring and evaluation of non-profit organisations.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 39/186 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SUPERVISOR GRADE 1 REF NO:
DSD/2025/171 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R453 201 per annum (LeveL:CD-A7)
CENTRE : Capricorn District: Ceres
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 6 or equivalent qualification in
Development Studies Science as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of seven
(07) years’ appropriate experience in Community Development after obtaining
the required qualification. Valid motor vehicle driver’s license (with the
exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge and
understanding of individual and group behaviour, it inter relations within
community structures, dynamics of the community and current legislation to
enable interventions. The ability and competence to manage community
development structures and projects. The ability to influence individuals and
groups to participate in their own self-empowerment ventures. Problem solving
and conflict resolution skills. Computer literacy. Written and verbal
communication skills. The ability to undertake complex research. Financial
management. Presentation skills. Project management. Human resource
management. policy formulation and implementation. Knowledge of the Public
Service Management Framework, e.g. PFMA, Labour Relations Act, etc.
DUTIES : Manage community development structures and projects. Supervise the
identification, facilitation and implementation of integrated community
development interventions in partnership with the community and other
relevant stakeholders. Supervise and support community development
practitioners to ensure that there is communication and coordination with all
the relevant role players, internal and external. Perform administrative support
134
on community development and related activities. Keep up to date with the
new developments in the community development field to enhance service
delivery.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 39/187 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: AUXILLIARY SERVICES REF NO:
DSD/2025/172 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mavambe Secure Care Centre
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 6 or equivalent qualification as recognised
by SAQA. A minimum of 2-3 years’ relevant experience. Valid motor vehicle
drivers’ licence (with exception of persons with disabilities).Knowledge And
Skills: Knowledge of Public Service Act. Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Knowledge of Public Service Regulations.
Knowledge of Departmental policies, procedures. Knowledge of Occupational
Health and Safety standards. Knowledge of Supply Chain Management (SCM)
policies and contract administration. Knowledge of Records management
principles (National Archives and Records Service of South Africa Act).
Knowledge of Basic facilities, asset, catering, and laundry management
procedures. Administrative skills. Coordination skills for managing auxiliary
function. Communication skills (verbal & written). Leadership skills. Planning &
organizing skills. Problem-solving skills. Decision-making skills. Computer
literacy skills.
DUTIES : Render office administration services. Coordinate catering services. Manage
laundry services. Facilitate the provision of records management. Monitor and
manage office supply inventories and coordinate timely procurement. Ensure
implementation of occupational health and safety protocols in the workplace.
Ensure quality control and compliance with health and food safety regulations.
Ensure compliance of service-level agreements or contracts with catering
providers. Conduct regular file audits and ensure timely archiving and disposal
of obsolete records.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 39/188 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: EXPENDITURE AND ACCOUNTS (X5
POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Waterberg District Ref No: DSD/2025/173 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District Ref No: DSD/2025/174 (X1 Post)
Mopani District Ref No: DSD/2025/175 (X1 Post)
Polokwane Welfare Complex Ref No: DSD/2025/176 (X1 Post)
Mavambe Secure Care Centre Ref No: DSD/2025/177 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 6 or equivalent qualifications in Financial
Management / Accounting / Auditing as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 2-
3 years’ relevant experience. A valid motor vehicle driver’s license (with
exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of
Public Service Regulations, Acts, policies and procedures. Knowledge of
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Good communication and listening
skills, Good interpersonal relationship, Ability to handle pressure. Conflict
management. Leadership and management skills. Policy analysing and
interpersonal skills. Report writing skills. Problem analysis and analytical
thinking. Honesty and confidentiality, customer care skills. Logis and BAS
literacy. Project management.
DUTIES : Provide financial budgeting services. Ensure effective revenue and debt
management. Ensure the management of conditional grants and donor funding
through appropriate processes. Ensure processing of payments. Attend audit
and supplier queries. Compile monthly, quarterly expenditure and early
warning reports. Perform creditor’s reconciliation. Monitor payments register.
Advise on virement of funds in terms of PFMA.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
135
POST 39/189 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT – BOOKKEEPING AND BANK
RECONCILIATION REF NO: DSD/2025/178 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office :Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 6 or equivalent qualifications in Financial
Management / Accounting / Auditing as recognised by SAQA. 2-3 years’
relevant experience. Valid driver’s license (with the exception of persons with
disabilities). Knowledge And Skills: Public Finance Management Act (PFMA)
and Treasury Regulations. Department of Social Development (DSD) financial
policies and procedures, Financial reporting standards , Government financial
systems (e.g., BAS, PERSAL, LOGIS). Report writing and presentation. Use
of accounting and financial systems/software (e.g., Excel, BAS). Stakeholder
engagement and communication). Stakeholder Problem-solving and decision-
making under pressure.
DUTIES : Ensure effective bookkeeping, bank reconciliation and debt management
against the budget. Implementation of acts, regulations and policies. Manage
subordinate. Provide effective and efficient bookkeeping and bank
reconciliation. Ensure all Suspense accounts have been cleared and
reconciled. Ensure all suspense accounts balances are supported by auditable
supporting documentation. Ensure that Trial balance reports has been
requested (retrieved). Approves journals related to suspense. Monitor
clearance of salary related suspense accounts. Approves clearance of EBT
rejection. Reconciling aging of accounts monthly. Manage filling of journals
related to suspense. Ensure proper and efficient management of debt.
Approves all types of debts. Ensure debt are created new debts taken on
processes. Ensure all exception relating to debts are cleared on BAS daily.
Ensure clearing of debts suspense by approves all debts. Ensure approves
journals for the recovering of debts. Provide effective and efficient bank
reconciliation. Ensure daily reconciliation between bank statement and trial
balance. Ensure all journals are approves for fund requisition. Maintain
payment register. Daily requesting of Trial balance. Maintenance of debts,
Journal register.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 39/190 : SENIOR PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: DEMAND &
ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT REF NO: DSD/2025/179 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 6 or equivalent qualifications in Financial
Management / SCM / Procurement Management as recognised by SAQA. 2–
3 years relevant experience. Valid motor vehicle driver’s licence (with the
exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of
Public Service Regulations, Acts, policies and procedures. Knowledge of
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Good communication and listening
skills, Good interpersonal relationship, Government financial systems (e.g.,
BAS, LOGIS). Ability to handle pressure. Conflict management. Policy analysis
and interpretation skills. Report writing skills. Problem analysis and analytical
thinking. Honesty and confidentiality, customer care skills. Logis literacy.
DUTIES : Facilitate the requisition of quotations. Receive approved specifications/Terms
of References (TORs) for advertisement of bids and invitation of quotations.
Issue out requests for quotations. Closing of the bids and price quotations.
Record bids & quotations in the receipt registers and compilation of the
checklists. Facilitate bid specification and evaluation processes. Compile the
appointment letters for bid evaluation and specification committee members.
Serve as the secretariat of the bid evaluation and specification committees.
Facilitate compliance with SCM prescripts. Facilitate departmental supplier
database or CSD (Central Supplier Database) interface. Request quotations
from suppliers. Receive, evaluate and adjudicate quotations. Supervise the
subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
136
POST 39/191 : SOCIAL WORKER GRADE 1 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 200 per annum (Level SW-A4)
CENTRE : Waterberg District: (X2 Posts)
Mabatlane Ref No: DSD/2025/180 (X1 Post)
Bakenberg Ref No: DSD/2025/181 (X1 Post)
Capricorn District: (X2 Posts)
Molemole Ref No: DSD/2025/182 (X1 Post)
Blouberg – Buffelshoek Ref No: DSD/2025/183 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 7 or equivalent qualifications in Social
Work as recognised by SAQA. Current registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions [SACSSP]. Valid motor vehicle driver’s
license (with exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge: Skills and
Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of human behaviour, social
system and skills to intervene at a point where people interact with their
environmental environment in order to promote their well-being. Knowledge of
programme and project management skills. Information and knowledge
management skills. People management and empowerment skills.
Communication and coordination skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Render an advanced and specialized social work services with regard to care,
protection and development of vulnerable individuals, group, families and
communities. Provide individual and group counselling. Conduct advance and
specialized assessment aimed at identifying condition and justify relevant
intervention. Implement the recommendations on the appropriate intervention
required to address the needs and provide continuous support. Produce and
maintain records of social work interventions, processes and outcomes.
Undertake social work research and development, contribute to and assist with
the development of policies. Perform all the administrative functions required
of the job.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 39/192 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: DEMAND & ACQUISITION
MANAGEMENT (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Capricorn District Ref No: DSD/2025/184 (X1 Post)
Waterberg District Ref No: DSD/2025/185 (X1 Post)
Mopani District Ref No: DSD/2025/186 (X1 Post)
Vhembe District Ref No: DSD/2025/187 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 6 or equivalent qualifications in Financial
Management / SCM / Procurement Management as recognized by SAQA. A
minimum of 1-2 years relevant experience. Valid motor vehicle driver’s license
(with exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge
of the Supply Chain Management framework, Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Preferential Procumbent Policy Framework Act (PPPFA), Treasury
Regulation, Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment Act (B-BBEE) and
other relevant prescripts.
DUTIES : Provide regular status/progress reports to management highlighting trends,
problems, risks, deviations, delays and make appropriate recommendations for
improvement. Determine possible future need for service by conducting a gap
analysis. Manage and maintain the database of all suppliers. Ensure quality
reporting on sourcing of goods and services. Consolidate procurement plan
based on inputs from various units. Capacity building to all users on new
procedures or systems implemented for the purpose of needs and market
analysis Assist with the development of acquisition plan or strategy. Purchase
goods and services that meet users’ requirements. Ensure that contractual
obligations are met to administer the flow of orders as well as ensuring that all
orders are invoiced. Receive and process requisition. Ensure that the Service
Level Agreements are met. Monitor and make Quality Assurance of the
incoming and outgoing requisition. Ensure that requisitions are in line with the
BEE as well as the South African Vendor Market.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
137
POST 39/193 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PURCHASING & STORES
MANAGEMENT (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101.per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District Ref No: DSD/2025/188 (X1 Post)
Waterberg District Ref No: DSD/2025/189 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 6 or equivalent qualification in
Financial Management/SCM /Procurement Management as recognized by
SAQA as recognised by SAQA. 1 - 2 years’ relevant experience. Valid motor
vehicle driver’s licence (with the exception of persons with disabilities).
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Public Service Regulations, Acts, policies
and procedures. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Good
communication and listening skills, Good interpersonal relationship, Ability to
handle pressure. Conflict management. Policy analysis and interpretation
skills. Report writing skills. Problem analysis and analytical thinking. Honesty
and confidentiality, customer care skills. Logis literacy.
DUTIES : Develop a purchasing plan or strategy. Purchase goods and services that meet
user’s requirements. Ensure that contractual obligations are met. Administer
the flow of orders as well as ensuring that all orders are invoiced. Receive and
process requisition. Ensure that the service level agreements are met. Monitor
and make quality assurance of the incoming and outgoing requisition. Ensure
that requisitions are in line with the BEE as well as the South African Vendor
Market Perform purchasing management services. Provide stores
management services. Maintain record keeping in issuing and receiving of
stock. Monitor stock-taking. Identify needs and prepare request to purchase.
Ensure that stocktaking and stock counting is done appropriately. Ensure the
stock take report is signed by the district head / Institution Head and all
committee members and thereafter submit the report to the provincial office.
Receive stock from the suppliers. Issuing of stock to customers. Coordinate
disposal of damaged stock. Ensure alignment of physical stock against LOGIS.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 39/194 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: EXPENDITURE AND ACCOUNTS (X8 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District Ref No: DSD/2025/190 (X2 Posts)
Mopani District Ref No: DSD/2025/191 (X2 Posts)
Capricorn District Ref No: DSD/2025/192 (X2 Posts)
Vhembe District Ref No: DSD/2025/193 (X1 Post)
Seshego Treatment Centre Ref No: DSD/2025/194 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 6 or equivalent qualifications in Financial
Management / Accounting / Auditing as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 1-
2 years’ relevant experience. Valid motor vehicle driver’s license (with
exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of
Public Service Regulations, Acts, policies and procedures. Knowledge of
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Good communication and listening
skills, Good interpersonal relationship, Ability to handle pressure. Conflict
management. Leadership and management skills. Policy analysing and
interpersonal skills. Report writing skills. Problem analysis and analytical
thinking. Honesty and confidentiality, customer care skills. Logis and BAS
literacy. Project management.
DUTIES : Assist in providing financial budgeting. Assist in processing of payments. Assist
in performing creditor’s reconciliation. Maintaining payment register.
Administer salary matters. Rendering of general financial administration.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 39/195 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: BOOKKEEPING AND BANK RECONCILIATION
REF NO: DSD/2025/195 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
138
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 6 or equivalent qualifications in Financial
Management / Accounting / Auditing as recognised by SAQA. 1-2 years’
relevant experience. Valid driver’s license (with the exception of persons with
disabilities). Knowledge And Skills: Public Finance Management Act (PFMA)
and Treasury Regulations. Department of Social Development (DSD) financial
policies and procedures, Financial reporting standards , Government financial
systems (e.g., BAS, PERSAL, LOGIS). Report writing and presentation. Use
of accounting and financial systems/software (e.g., Excel, BAS). Stakeholder
engagement and communication). Stakeholder Problem-solving and decision-
making under pressure.
DUTIES : Ensure effective bookkeeping, bank reconciliation and debt management
against the budget. Implementation of acts, regulations and policies. Keep
debts control register Provide effective and efficient bookkeeping and bank
reconciliation. Ensure all Suspense accounts have been cleared and
reconciled. Ensure all suspense accounts balances are supported by auditable
supporting documentation. Ensure that Trial balance reports has been
requested (retrieved). Capture journals related to suspense. Monitor clearance
of salary related suspense accounts. Capture clearance of EBT rejection.
Reconciling aging of accounts monthly. Manage filling of journals related to
suspense. Ensure proper and efficient management of debt. Capture all types
of debts. Ensure debt are created new debts taken on processes. Ensure all
exception relating to debts are cleared on BAS daily. Ensure clearing of debts
suspense by capturing all debts. Ensure capturing journals for the recovering
of debts. Provide effective and efficient bank reconciliation. Ensure daily
reconciliation between bank statement and trial balance. Ensure all journals
are capture for fund requisition. Maintain payment register. Daily requesting of
Trial balance. Maintenance of debts and Journal register.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 39/196 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: TRANSPORT
MANAGEMENT REF NO: DSD/2025/196 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Vhembe District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 6 or equivalent qualifications in
Logistic/Transport management/ Public Administration/Public
Management/SCM as recognised by SAQA. 1 - 2 years’ relevant experience.
Valid motor vehicle driver’s licence (with the exception of persons with
disabilities). Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Public Service Regulations,
Acts, policies and procedures. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA). Good communication and listening skills, Good interpersonal
relationship, Ability to handle pressure. Conflict management. Policy analysis
and interpretation skills. Report writing skills. Problem analysis and analytical
thinking. Honesty and confidentiality, customer care skills.
DUTIES : Ensure logbooks and trip authorizations. Manage the record keeping of
transport documents. Coordinate trip planning. Facilitate fleet management.
Ensure Logbooks and Trip authorisations, Train vehicle users on the
completion of logbooks and trip authorization. Calculating kilometers travelled
to the vehicle user. Verify the calculation on the logbooks. Conduct bookings
of vehicles for maintenance. Check odometer reading for maintenance of
vehicles. Arrange with personnel to take the vehicle for service/maintenance
Ensure that removed parts are kept safe for record. Record all missing vehicle
accessories. Facilitate trip planning. Ensure proper record keeping of transport
documents. File all trip authorisations of all undertaken trips. Keep safe of all
toll/fuel receipts. Ensure that all maintenance/repairs are kept safe.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 39/197 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: EXPENDITURE AND ACCOUNT REF NO:
DSD/2025/197 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office
139
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 6 or equivalent qualifications in Financial
Management / Accounting / Auditing as recognised by SAQA. 1-2 years’
relevant experience. valid driver’s license (with the exception of persons with
disabilities). Knowledge And Skills: Public Finance Management Act (PFMA)
and Treasury Regulations. NGO financial governance, funding cycles, and
donor requirements. Department of Social Development (DSD) financial
policies and procedures. Government financial systems (e.g., BAS, LOGIS)
Financial reporting standards (GRAP/IFRS). Financial analysis, reporting, and
interpretation. Use of accounting and financial systems/software. Problem-
solving and decision-making under pressure.
DUTIES : Provide financial support services. Provide financial guidance and support to
NGOs receiving DSD funding. Monitor and evaluate the financial health and
sustainability of NGOs. Review financial statements and reports submitted by
NGOs to ensure compliance with DSD and donor requirements. Provide
financial capacity building to NGOS. Provide on-site financial management
mentorship to NGOs to improve their financial capabilities. Assist with
identifying the financial capacity needs of NGOs and design tailored support
plans. Provide financial support to line management. Provide District financial
support services. Assist with the consolidation of NGO financial reconciliation
and reconciliation reports. Review NGO expenditures against funding
allocations. Monitoring and evaluation of financial performance. Conduct
regular financial reviews of NGO programs to assess the utilization of funds.
Ensure NGOs adhere to financial rules and regulations. Compile NGO financial
monitoring reports.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 39/198 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF
NO: DSD/2025/198 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Capricorn District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 6 or equivalent qualifications in Financial
Management/SCM / Procurement Management as recognized by SAQA. A
minimum of 1-2 years’ relevant experience. Valid motor vehicle driver’s license
(with exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge
of Public Service Regulations, Acts, policies and procedures. Knowledge of
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Treasury Regulations, Asset
Management Framework., Public Services Act and Regulations. Knowledge of
Supply Chain Management Frameworks such as Preferential Procurement
Policy Framework Act and regulations. Computer Literacy (MS Word and
Spreadsheets), Communication skills (verbal and written), Strong Analytical
skills, Report Writing skills, Project Management skills, Good Interpersonal
skills, problem solving skills, numeric skills, and professionalism.
DUTIES : Receive new purchased assets. Barcode the assets on the system &
physically. Allocation to enduser. Capturing of the assets in the asset register.
Assist in asset movement process. Filling of asset supporting documents.
Facilitate the maintenance of the audited asset register. Conduct asset
verification. Conducting the disposal of absolute/ redundant assets.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 39/199 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES
REF NO: DSD/2025/199 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Seshego Treatment Centre
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 6 or equivalent qualification as recognised
by SAQA. A minimum of 1-2 years’ relevant experience. Valid motor vehicle
drivers’ licence (with exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge And
Skills: Knowledge of Public Service Act. Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Knowledge of Public Service Regulations.
Knowledge of Departmental policies, procedures. Knowledge of Occupational
Health and Safety standards. Knowledge of Supply Chain Management (SCM)
policies and contract administration. Knowledge of Records management
140
principles (National Archives and Records Service of South Africa Act).
Knowledge of Basic facilities, asset, catering, and laundry management
procedures. Administrative skills. Coordination skills for managing auxiliary
function. Communication skills (verbal & written). Leadership skills. Planning &
organizing skills. Problem-solving skills. Decision-making skills. Computer
literacy skills.
DUTIES : Render office administration services. Issuing food items according to the
menu. Monitor the cleaning of the kitchen. Manage messenger and postal/mail
services. Coordinate catering services. Manage laundry services. Facilitate
the provision of records management. Monitor and manage office supply
inventories and coordinate timely procurement. Ensure implementation of
occupational health and safety protocols in the workplace. Ensure quality
control and compliance with health and food safety regulations. Ensure
compliance of service-level agreements or contracts with catering providers.
Conduct regular file audits and ensure timely archiving and disposal of obsolete
records.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 39/200 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: HR PRACTICE & ADMINSTRATION (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Waterberg District Ref No: DSD/2025/200 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District Ref No: DSD/2025/201 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 6 or equivalent qualification in HRM /
Training as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 1-2 years’ relevant experience.
PERSAL Literacy. Valid motor vehicle drivers’ licence (with exception of
persons with disabilities). Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Public Service
Act., Public Service Regulations, Basic Condition of employment act,
Employment Equity Act. Computer literacy, Good interpersonal skills, Good
written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work under pressure.
Analytical skills on problem solving, decision making and organizational skills.
Knowledge of Departmental policies and procedures.
DUTIES : Implement and maintain human resource administration practices. Compile
scheduling of district posts. Provide the administration for district selection
services. Facilitate shortlisting and interviews in the district. Provide the
administration for district appointment services. Provide the administration of
conditions of services: Provide the administration for service termination due
to death/ resignation, retirement (normal and early retirement). Provide the
administration for employee benefits such as pensions, housing allowances,
medical aid scheme recognition of long service awards. Facilitate state
guarantees. Monitor attendance and leave registers. Facilitate PILIR. Conduct
district leave auditing. Provide the administration of post establishment and HR
system: Provide the administration for transfer and translation of personnel.
Approve PERSAL transaction. Facilitate and coordinate district human
resource development services: Assist in the development of district workplace
skills plan. Liaise with head office on schedule of courses to be attended.
Provide the administration for learnerships and internships. Evaluate and
monitor performance and appraisal of subordinates. Provide capacity
development of subordinates. Enhance and maintain subordinates’ motivation.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 39/201 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District Ref No: DSD/2025/202 (X1 Post)
Capricorn District Ref No: DSD/2025/203 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 4 (Grade 12) or equivalent
qualification as recognized by SAQA. Valid motor vehicle driver’s license (with
the exception of persons with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills: Basic
knowledge of supply chain duties, practices as well as the ability to capture
data, operate computer and collect statistics. Basic knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service. Ability
141
to work under pressure. Policy analysis and interpretation skills. Planning and
organisation skills. Interpersonal relations. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Conflict management skills. Report writing skills.
Customer care skills.
DUTIES : Allocate vehicles daily. Conduct vehicle inspections. Ensure and monitor
utilization of registers. Ensure cleaning of vehicles. Ensure proper record
keeping of transport documentation.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 39/202 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: SALARY ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
DSD/2025/204 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mopani District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 4(Grade 12) or equivalent
qualification as recognized by SAQA. Knowledge And Skills: Good
communication and listening skills, Good interpersonal relationship, Ability to
handle pressure. Conflict management. Policy analysis and interpretation
skills. Report writing skills. Problem analysis and analytical thinking. Honesty
and confidentiality, customer care skills.
DUTIES : Process salary allowance, deductions and disallowances. Administer
garnishee and maintenance order. Capturing of emolument attachment orders
on PERSAL system. Sorting and distribution of the remittance reports to
various institutions. Handle all salary related enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 39/203 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: EXPENDITURE & ACCOUNTS REF NO:
DSD/2025/205 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Waterberg District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 4(Grade 12) or equivalent
qualification as recognized by SAQA. Knowledge And Skills: Good
communication and listening skills, Good interpersonal relationship, Ability to
handle pressure. Conflict management. Policy analysis and interpretation
skills. Report writing skills. Problem analysis and analytical thinking. Honesty
and confidentiality, customer care skills.
DUTIES : Archiving of payment vouchers. Process and handle payment enquiries. Attend
to client’s queries on payments Assist in performing creditor’s reconciliation.
Receive goods on the system after they have been received manually. Maintain
payment register. Update the register on daily basis.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 39/204 : REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: DSD/2025/206 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R228 32 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mopani District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 4(Grade 12) or equivalent
qualification as recognized by SAQA. Certificate in Archives and Record
Management will be an added advantage Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of
registry duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, and operate
computer. Working knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures
in terms of the working environment. Computer literacy skills. Planning and
organisation skills. Good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide registry counter services. Handle incoming and outgoing
correspondence. Render an effective filling and record management services.
Operate office machines in relation to registry functions. Process documents
for archiving and/ disposal.
142
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 39/205 : FOREMAN GROUNDSMAN REF NO: DSD/2025/207 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Polokwane Welfare Complex
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 4(Grade 12) or equivalent
qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 1-year relevant
experience. Knowledge And Skills: Horticulture and plant care. Turf and
landscape maintenance techniques. Safe handling and storage of chemicals
and tools. Occupational Health & Safety regulations. Basic mechanical
knowledge of landscaping equipment. Environmental compliance standards.
DUTIES : Manage grounds and landscape maintenance. Ensure effective use,
maintenance, and storage of tools and materials. Ensure Compliance with
Health, Safety, and Environmental regulations. Maintain effective
communication with team and management and ensure accurate reporting.
Team Leadership and Supervision.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 39/206 : SEAMSTRESS REF NO: DSD/2025/208 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum, (Level 03)
CENTRE : Capricorn District: Sekutupu Old-Age Home
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 4(Grade 12) or equivalent
qualification as recognized by SAQA Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of
various stitching techniques, pattern making, fabric types, and garment
construction. Understanding of fabric properties and how to handle different
textiles. Knowledge of designing clothing that caters to specific health needs
and physical limitations. Knowledge of hygiene practices, safety protocols, and
infection control related to sewing tools and clothing maintenance. Sewing and
alteration skills. Time management skills. Inventory management skills.
Problem solving skills.
DUTIES : Provide clothing repair and alteration services. Provide linen and bedding
maintenance services. Ensure all clothing is in good condition, repairing tears,
adjusting sizing, and replacing buttons, zippers, or other hardware as needed.
Ensure that all work is done to a high standard, prioritizing durability, comfort,
and safety. Keep track of sewing supplies and materials. Ensure adequate
stock and proper usage. Perform regular checks on sewing machines and
other tools.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 39/207 : DRIVER (BREAKDOWN OPERATOR) REF NO: DSD/2025/209 (X1 POST)
(Re-advert)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 4(Grade 12) or equivalent
qualification as recognized by SAQA. Valid code EC/EC1 drivers licence plus
Professional Driving Permit (PrDP). Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of the
Province in which functions will be performed. Knowledge and procedures to
perform messenger functions. Knowledge of the procedures to operate the
motor vehicle e.g. procedures to obtain trip authorities, complete the logbooks
of the motor vehicle, to obtain consumables (e.g. petrol) and obtain basic
services (e.g. fixing a flat tyre). Knowledge of the prescripts for the correct
utilisation of the motor vehicle and the requirements for the storage of the
vehicle. Knowledge of the procedures to ensure that the motor vehicle is
maintained properly. Knowledge to operate a Breakdown.
DUTIES : Transport Officials to various places. Monitor performance and conditions of
government vehicles. Do routine maintenance on the allocated vehicle and
report defects timely. Attending to breakdown of vehicles and towing vehicles
to merchants for repair. Complete all the required and prescribed records and
143
logs books with regard to the vehicle and the goods handled. Render a clerical
support / messenger service in the Provincial Office. Collect and deliver
documentation and related items in the department.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 39/208 : CLEANER (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Capricorn District: Seshego Ref No: DSD/2025/210 (X1 Post)
Seshego Treatment Centre Ref No: DSD/2025/211 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Junior Certificate or STD 8/Grade 10/AET/ABET, or equivalent qualification.
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles. Knowledge of
basic safety and hygiene practices. Knowledge of infection control and hazard
monitoring. Interpersonal skills. Communication skills. Time management.
DUTIES : Provide cleaning services. Keep and maintain cleaning materials and
equipment. Request and manage the supply of cleaning materials and
equipment. Implement and maintain hygiene and infection prevention
measures.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr QLM Mogotlane / Ms MR Semake at Tel No:
(015) 230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNITY SAFETY
The Limpopo Department of Transport and Community Safety is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer with clear employment equity targets. All positions are targeting Women and Person with
Disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant references `should be forwarded as follows The Head of
Department (For Head Office posts) Department of Transport and Community
Safety, Private Bag X9491, Polokwane, 0700 OR handed in at Phamoko
Towers Building, Second (2nd) Floor, Office No. 45 at 40 Church Street,
Polokwane, 0699.
Capricorn District, 39 Church Street, Polokwane, The Director, Private Bag X
9324, Polokwane 0700, Tel No 073 170 6748
Sekhukhune District, Lebowakgomo Govt. Complex. The Director, Private
Bag X 61, Lebowakgomo,0737, Tel No 015 633 5150
Waterberg District, NTK Building, Modimolle, 84 CNR Limpopo Street &
Thabo Mbeki Street, The Director, Private Bag X 1038, Modimolle, 0510, Tel
No 014 718 2300/2311/2310.
Mopani District, Giyani Govt, Complex. The Director, Private Bag X 9679,
Giyani, 0826, Tel No 015 811 7000.
Vhembe District, Thohoyandou Govt. Complex the Director, Private Bag X
2145, Sibasa, 0970, Tel No 015 960 3000 Enquiries: Ms. Amika Y: 015-295
1209, Ms. Mpe N.F: 015 294 8401 and Ms. Maphoto S.M: 015 295 1163
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025 at 16h00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted via e-Recruitment system through the link at
http://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za and on new z83 form obtainable from all
Government Departments or can be downloaded from www.dpsa.gov.za.
Applicants are to specify the centre on z83 form, which must be completed in
full, originally signed, with reference number indicated and dated by the
applicant. Application should be accompanied by a recent updated
comprehensive CV (previous experience must be comprehensively detailed,
i.e. positions held and dates. The following must be considered in relation to
the completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part
D should be completed. In Part B, all fields should be completed in full except
the following: South African applicants need not provide passport numbers. If
an applicant responded “no” to the question “Are you conducting business with
the State or are you a Director of a Public or Private company conducting
business with the State? If yes (provide detail)” then it is acceptable for an
applicant to indicate not applicable or leave blank to the question, “In the event
that you are employed in the Public Service, will you immediately relinquish
such business interest?”. Applicants may leave the following question blank if
they are not in possession of such: “If your profession or occupation requires
official registration, provide date and particulars of registration”. Noting there is
limited space provided for Part E, F & G, applicants often indicate “refer to
144
Curriculum Vitae (CV) or see attached”, this is acceptable as long as the CV
has been attached and provides the required information. If the information is
not provided in the CV, the applicant may be disqualified. It must be noted that
a CV is an extension of the application of employment Z83, and applicants are
accountable for the information that is provided therein. The questions related
to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part F must be answered.
Applicants are required to submit New Z83 and detailed CV. Only shortlisted
applicants will be required to submit certified copies of their educational
qualifications and other relevant documents on or before the day of the
interviews. Applicants with foreign qualifications remain responsible for
ensuring that their qualifications are evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The employer reserves the right to fill or not
to fill the posts. Failure to submit the requested documents will result in your
application not being considered. Due to austerity measures the department
will not carry any related costs (transport, accommodation, and meals) for
candidates attending interviews. Successful incumbents will be expected to
sign a performance agreement within one month after assumption of duty. The
successful candidate will also be required to disclose their financial interest in
accordance with the prescribed regulations. Suitable candidates will be
subjected to a personnel suitability check (i.e. verification of educational
qualifications, previous work experience, citizenship, reference checks,
criminal record check, verification of financial/assets record check and security
vetting). Where applicable, candidates will be subjected to a skills/knowledge
test. The employment decision shall be informed by the Employment Equity
Plan of the Department. Applications received after the closing date whether
posted or hand-submitted will not be considered. Failure to comply with the
above requirements will result in the disqualification of the application.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only; due to the large
number of applications we envisage. If you have not heard from us within 90
days of the closing date, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. However, should there be any dissatisfaction, applicants are
hereby advised to seek reasons for the above administration action in terms of
Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA) No.3 of 2000.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 39/209 : DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT REF NO: LDTCS H2/2025
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the State’s
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund, a medical fund and
flexible portion which may be structured in terms of applicable rules.
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification NQF level 7 equivalent qualifications as
recognized by South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). A qualification in
Public/Business Administration/Management will be an added advantage.
Proof of completion of the SMS pre-entry programme (Nyukela) upon
appointment. 5 years’ experience at a middle/senior management level in the
relevant field. Valid driver’s license (except for people with disabilities). Core
And Process Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership; knowledge
of Policies and Prescripts; Knowledge of Change management principles;
People Management and Empowerment, Programme and Project
Management; Financial Management, Computer Literacy; Knowledge
Management, Service Delivery Innovation; Problem Solving and Analysis;
Client Orientation and Customer Focus; Communication; Negotiation skills and
understanding supply chain management principles. Knowledge And Skills:
Strategy development skills, knowledge of strategic planning, knowledge of
government planning and reporting legislation and cycle, quality assurance
skills, Sound and in-depth knowledge of and understanding of the legislative
framework governing the public service i.e., Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulation. Knowledge of Public service sector governance.
DUTIES : Provide leadership and strategic direction in the directorate. Manage the
strategic planning process and coordinate policy development for the
Department. Manage the monitoring and evaluation of the departmental
performance. Manage and coordinate service delivery improvements and
customer care services. Manage the component’s resources against its
strategic objectives.
145
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amika Y Tel No: (015) 295 1209, Ms. Mpe N.F Tel No: (015)294 8401
POST 39/210 : DIRECTOR: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY REF NO: LDTCS H3/2025
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the State’s
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund, a medical fund and
flexible portion which may be structured in terms of applicable rules.
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification NQF level 7 in Information
Technology/Computer Science as recognized by South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA). Proof of completion of the SMS pre-entry program (Nyukela)
upon appointment,5 years’ experience at a middle/senior managerial level in
the IT field, Valid driver’s license (except for people with disabilities).Core And
Process Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership; knowledge of
Policies and Prescripts; Knowledge of Change management principles; People
Management and Empowerment, Programme and Project Management;
Financial Management, Computer Literacy; Knowledge Management, Service
Delivery Innovation; Problem Solving and Analysis; Client Orientation and
Customer Focus; Communication; Negotiation skills and understanding supply
chain management principles. Knowledge And Skills: Sound and in-depth
knowledge of and understanding of the legislative framework and policies
governing ICT in the public service, negotiations skills, Microsoft office suite,
research and analyzing skills, leadership and decision making, integrity and
ethics.
DUTIES : Provision and Management of ICT infrastructure, Development, enhancement
and maintenance of Application Systems, Manage the provision on Business
Solutions and Service delivery. Integrated governance and administration
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amika Y Tel No: (015)295 1209, Ms. Mpe N.F Tel No: (015)294 8401
POST 39/211 : DIRECTOR: MOPANI DISTRICT REF NO: LDTCS M1/2025
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the State’s
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund, a medical fund and
flexible portion which may be restructured in terms of applicable rules.
CENTRE : Mopani District (Giyani)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification NQF level 7 equivalent qualifications as
recognized by South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). A qualification in
Public Administration/Management will be an added advantage. Proof of
completion of the SMS pre-entry program (Nyukela) upon the appointment 5
years’ experience at middle/senior management level in the Administration
field, Valid driver’s license (with the exception of people with disabilities).Core
And Process Competencies Strategic Capability and Leadership; Knowledge
of Change management principles; People Management and Empowerment,
Programme and Project Management; Financial Management, Computer
Literacy; Knowledge Management, Service Delivery Innovation; Problem
Solving and Analysis; Client Orientation and Customer Focus; Communication;
Negotiation skills and understanding supply chain management principles.
Knowledge And Skills: Sound and in-depth knowledge and understanding of
the legislative framework governing the public service i.e., Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulation. Public service knowledge, negotiations, Public
Service Knowledge.
DUTIES : Manage Transport Regulation Services, Manage Transport Operations
services, Manage Provincial Secretariat for Police Services, Manage
Government Fleet services, Manage Corporate Management services,
Manage Financial Management services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Baloyi C Tel No: (015) 811 7022: Mr. Banyini N.G Tel No: (015) 711 7019
OTHER POSTS
POST 39/212 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TRANSPORT SAFETY PROMOTION REF NO:
LDTCS H4/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the State’s
146
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund, a medical fund and
flexible portion which may be restructured in terms of applicable rules.
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 or equivalent qualification as
recognized by South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). A qualification in
Public Administration/Management/Relations will be an added advantage. Five
(5) years’ experience of which three (3) years must be at Junior Management
/ Assistant Director level in the same field. Valid driver’s license (with exception
of person with disability). Core And Process Competencies: Strategic
Capability and Leadership, People Management and Empowerment,
Programme and Project Management, Financial Management, Change
Management, Knowledge Management, Service Delivery Innovation, Problem
solving and Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer focus, Communication.
Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of event planning processes, including
venue selection, catering and logistics, marketing strategies which includes
social media, advertising and public relations. Knowledge of event evaluation
methods, budgeting, financial planning, cost control, risk management
strategy, which includes, risk assessment, mitigation and contingency
planning. Team management skills, leadership skills, Conflict resolution,
problem solving and Presentation skills, ability to communicate at all levels.
Interpersonal, high-level report writing and computer skills.
DUTIES : Manage road safety dialogues and outreaches, jointly with all relevant
stakeholders and entities. Management of staff, promote all road safety events
in the department and budget management. Manage school safety programs,
district awareness campaigns/activities and related programs. Manage public
participation surveys on road accidents prevalences in routes across
communities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amika Y Tel No: (015)295 1209, Ms. Mpe N.F Tel No: (015)294 8401
POST 39/213 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: GOVERNMENT FLEET REF NO: LDTCS W1/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the State’s
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund, a medical fund and
flexible portion which may be structured in terms of applicable rules.
CENTRE : Waterberg District (Modimolle)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 or equivalent qualifications as
recognized by South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). A qualification in
Transport/Fleet/Logistics will be an added advantage. Five (5) years’
experience of which three (3) years must be at Junior Management / Assistant
Director level in the same field. Valid driver’s license (with exception of person
with disability). Core And Process Competencies: Strategic Capability and
Leadership, People Management and Empowerment, Programme and Project
Management, Financial Management, Change Management, Knowledge
Management, Service Delivery Innovation, Problem solving and Analysis,
Client Orientation and Customer focus, Communication. Knowledge And
Skills: Knowledge of cost control, risk management strategy, which includes,
risk assessment, mitigation and contingency planning. Team management
skills, leadership skills, Conflict resolution, problem solving and Presentation
skills, ability to communicate at all levels. Interpersonal, high-level report
writing and computer skills.
DUTIES : Manage Government fleet services. Manage maintenance and repairs
services, Manage subsidised motor transport services, Manage unserviceable
government vehicles
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Maja M Tel No: (014) 718 2335 Mr. Motloutsi F Tel No: (014) 718 2317
POST 39/214 : CONTROL PROVINCIAL INSPECTOR: TRANSPORT REGULATION REF
NO: LDTCS H5/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the State’s
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund, a medical fund and
flexible portion which may be structured in terms of applicable rules.
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 or equivalent qualifications as
recognized by South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Basic Diploma
for Traffic Law Enforcement, any other qualification in Road Traffic / Traffic
147
Management will be an added advantage.7-10 years’ experience in Traffic Law
enforcement, Five (5) years’ experience of which three (3) years must be Chief
Provincial Inspector/equivalent in Traffic Law enforcement. Valid driver’s
license, at least Code B (with exception of person with disability). No criminal
record. Core And Process Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership,
Programme and Project Management, Change Management, Financial
Management, Knowledge Management, Problem Solving and Analysis, Client
Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication. Knowledge of Road Traffic
and Safety Acts, Accident reconstruction, Knowledge of Criminal Procedure
Act, Road Safety history and current situation in SA, PFMA, negotiation skills,
Conflict resolution, problem solving and Presentation skills, ability to
communicate at all levels. Ability to analyse the findings and make
recommendations, understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service Act, Public Service Regulation. Public service knowledge,
negotiations, Public Service Knowledge, high level report writing skills.
DUTIES : Manage and enforce National Road Traffic Act 93/1996, National Land
Transport Act 5/2009, and other related legislations. Manage the
implementation of operational law enforcement plans. Manage registration and
licensing services. Manage provision of traffic operational resources. Ensure
effective and efficient leadership. Management of service delivery
improvement in traffic management. Manage human resources. Financial
Management. Ensure effective and efficient asset management. Manage
Traffic Legislation development and compliance. Manage traffic information
and management systems. Provide incident management systems. Manage
traffic administration services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amika Y Tel No: (015) 295 1209, Ms. Mpe N.F Tel No: (015) 294 8401
POST 39/215 : CHIEF PROVINCIAL INSPECTOR: IN-SERVICE AND FIELD TRAINING REF
NO: LDTCS H6/2024
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Limpopo Traffic Training College (Mutale)
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 equivalent qualifications as
recognized by South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Basic Diploma
for Traffic Law Enforcement, Any other qualification in Road Traffic / Traffic
Management will be an added advantage.3 - 5 years’ experience at supervisory
level,7-10 years working experience in the traffic law enforcement field. Valid
driver’s license (with exception of persons with disabilities), No criminal record.
Core And Process Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership,
Programme and Project Management, Change Management, Financial
Management, Knowledge Management, Problem Solving and Analysis, Client
Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication. Knowledge And Skills:
Knowledge of Road Traffic and Safety Acts, Accident reconstruction,
Knowledge of Criminal Procedure Act, Road Safety history and current
situation in SA, PFMA, negotiation skills, Conflict resolution, problem solving
and Presentation skills, ability to communicate at all levels. Ability to analyze
the findings and make recommendations, understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service Act, Public Service Regulation. Public
service knowledge, negotiations, Public Service Knowledge, high level report
writing skills.
DUTIES : Manage Compliance with the Firearm Control Act 60 of 2000.Manage firearms
and ammunitions. Ensure effective and Efficient Leadership. Manage Service
delivery improvement. Manage Human Resources & Financial management.
Ensure effective and Efficient Asset management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amika Y Tel No: (015) 295 1209, Ms. Mpe N.F Tel No: (015) 294 8401
POST 39/216 : CHIEF ARTISAN GRADE A: MECHANICAL SERVICES REF NO: LDTCS
H11/2025
SALARY : R480 261 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An Appropriate Trade Test certificate in Diesel or Electromechanical. 5 years
experience required as an Artisan Foreman. Valid Driver’s Licence (Except for
people with disabilities). Core And Process Competencies: Change
Management, Financial Management, Problem Solving and Analysis,
Customer Focus and responsiveness, Communication. Planning and
organizing and decision making. Computer – aided technical application,
148
technical report writing and knowledge of occupational health and safety
legislation.
DUTIES : Manage the repair, breakdown services and maintenance of both heavy and
light government vehicles. Ensure technical services and support in the
government garage /workshop in conjunction with Artisans. Manage
administrative and related functions such as providing. inputs into the
budgeting process, compiling and submitting reports as required etc. Financial
management –Control and monitor expenditure according to budget to ensure
efficient cash flow management. People management – manage development,
motivation and utilization of human resources and manage subordinates’ key
performance areas by setting and monitoring performance standards. maintain
and advance expertise. Continuous individual development to keep up with
new technologies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amika Y Tel No: (015) 295 1209, Ms. Mpe N.F: Tel No: (015) 294 8401
POST 39/217 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: NATIS ADMINISTRATION AND TRAINING REF
NO: LDTCS H7/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 equivalent qualifications as
recognized by South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). A qualification in
Transport/Public Management/Administration will be an added advantage. 3 -
5 years’ experience at supervisory level. Valid driver’s license (with exception
of persons with disabilities) Core and Process Competencies: Knowledge of
relevant prescripts, understanding NaTis Security policy and procedures,
Innovative thinking, Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Written and Verbal
Communication Skills, Decision Making, Strong Leadership and Team building
Skills, Planning and Organizing skills, Conflict Management and Project
Management. Knowledge And Skills: Sound and depth knowledge of and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the public service i.e.,
Public Service Act, Public Service Regulation. Public service negotiations.
DUTIES : Provide NaTis Security support. Conduct training needs assessments and
compile schedule for training. Assist with change management within NaTis.
Ensure provision of NaTis equipment and stationery. Supervise subordinates
and utilise resources in accordance with relevant legislation and directives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amika Y Tel No: (015) 295 1209, Ms. Mpe N.F Tel No: (015) 294 8401
POST 39/218 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR POLICE OVERSIGHT REF NO: LDTCS S1/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District (Lebowakgomo)
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 or equivalent qualifications as
recognized by South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). A qualification in
Public Administration/Policing will be an added advantage, 3 - 5 years’
experience at supervisory level in the same field, Valid Driver’s Licence (Except
for people with disabilities). Core And Process Competencies Knowledge
Management, Problem Solving and Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer
Focus, Communication. Knowledge And Skills Domestic Violence Act, Criminal
Procedure Act, sexual Offence Act, Crime Prevention Strategy, South African
Criminal Justice System Act, National Development Plan, Civilian Secretariat
for Police Service Act and Regulation, Policies related to Community Safety
within the Municipality, PFMA, Computer literacy, Policy analysing skill,
investigative skills, Reporting skills, Presentation skills, Public relations,
management skills, Interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Assist in the management of service delivery complaints lodged against the
SAPS in the Province. Conduct Court Watch Brief at Courts in the Province.
Assist in the analysis of Court Watch Brief reports and make follow-up with
police stations identified. Monitor the implementation of IPID recommendations
by SAPS. Supervise subordinates within the sub-component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amika Y Tel No: (015) 295 1209, Ms. Mpe N.F Tel No: (015) 294 8401
POST 39/219 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HIV/AIDS AND HEALTH AND PRODUCTIVITY
MANAGEMENT REF NO: LDTCS H8/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
149
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 in Nursing or Health related field as
recognized by South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). A qualification in
HIV/AIDS counselling and management will be an added advantage.
Compulsory Annual Registration with HPCSA, 3 - 5 years’ experience at
supervisory level in the same field. Valid Driver’s Licence (with exception of
persons with disabilities). Core And Process Competencies: Strategic
Capability and Leadership, Programme and Project Management, Change
Management, Financial Management, Knowledge Management, Problem
Solving and Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication.
Computer literacy, policy development skills, strong leadership and team
building skills, Problem solving, Client orientation and customer focus, Public
relations, management skills, Interpersonal relations. Knowledge And Skills:
Employee and Wellness policy framework, policy on reasonable
accommodation, policy on special leave, National Development Plan, PFMA,
Computer literacy, Policy analysing skill, investigative skills, Reporting skills,
Presentation skills, Public relations, management skills, Interpersonal
relations,
DUTIES : Co-ordinate, implement and monitor HIV and AIDS and TB and other Chronic
conditions program within the Department. Co-ordinate the Health and
Productivity management program with the Department. Render support to
Districts’ wellness co-ordinators, Limpopo Traffic college and management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amika Y Tel No: (015) -295 1209, Ms. Mpe N.F Tel No: (015) 294 8401
POST 39/220 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE C (PANELBEATING) REF NO: LDTCS
C3/2025
SALARY : R332 061 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE Capricorn District (Seshego)
REQUIREMENTS : An Appropriate Trade Test certificate in Diesel or Electromechanical. 3-5 years’
experience in the relevant field. Valid Driver’s Licence (Except for people with
disabilities). Core And Process Competencies: Change Management,
Financial Management, Problem Solving and Analysis, Customer Focus and
responsiveness, Communication. Planning and organizing and decision
making. Computer – aided technical application, technical report writing and
knowledge of occupational health and safety legislation.
DUTIES : Facilitate the repair, breakdown services and maintenance of both heavy and
light government vehicles. Ensure technical services and support in the
government garage /workshop in conjunction with Artisans. Manage
administrative and related functions such as providing. inputs into the
budgeting process, compiling and submitting reports as required etc. Financial
management –Control and monitor expenditure according to budget to ensure
efficient cash flow management. People management – manage development,
motivation and utilization of human resources and manage subordinates’ key
performance areas by setting and monitoring performance standards. maintain
and advance expertise. Continuous individual development to keep up with
new technologies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amika Y Tel No: (015) 295 1209, Ms. Mpe N.F Tel No: (015) 294 8401
POST 39/221 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: ASSURANCE / FACILITATION SERVICES
REF NO: LDTCS H9/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) or equivalent as recognised by
SAQA. An undergraduate qualification in Financial Management will be an
added advantage. A minimum of two 2 years to experience in the same or
related field. Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with disabilities)
Core and Process Competencies Computer literacy, problem solving,
Interpersonal skills, Time management, Good Communication skills,
Professionalism, Accuracy, Independent, Team player and patience.
Knowledge and Skills: Computer Literacy, PFMA, Organizing skills, Verbal and
written communication, Interpersonal relations, Planning and Organizational
Skills, Report Writing.
DUTIES : Monitoring adherence to Acts. Regulations and policies within the department.
Inspection / Auditing of financial processes and assets. Investigate and follow-
up on detected irregularities. Handling of management letters, provincial audit,
audit queries and SCOPA report.
150
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amika Y Tel No: (015) -295 1209, Ms. Mpe N.F Tel No: (015) 294 8401
POST 39/222 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FACILITIES AND AUXILIARY SERVICES REF
NO: LDTCS M2/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mopani District (Giyani) Targeting PWD
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 or equivalent qualifications as
recognized by South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). A qualification in
Financial Management will be an added advantage. A minimum of 2 years’
experience in the same or related field. Valid Driver’s Licence (Except for
people with disabilities) Core and Process Competencies: Strategic Capability
and Leadership, Programme and Project Management, Change Management,
Financial Management, Knowledge Management, Problem Solving and
Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication. Knowledge
and Skills Knowledge and understanding of legislative framework governing
Public Service, PFMA, Advanced Financial Management, Reporting
procedures, Computer Literacy. Written Communication negotiation skills,
Analytical thinking skills, transformation policies and procedures, Production
process knowledge and skills.
DUTIES : Ensure provision of photocopier, Provision of telecommunication services,
Supervise Cleaning services, Handle office furniture, Provide lease
management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Baloyi C Tel No: (015) 811 7022 Mr. Banyini G Tel No: (015) 811 7019
POST 39/223 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCIAL CONTROL (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum. (Level 07)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune (Lebowakgomo) Ref No: LDTCS S2/2025
Vhembe (Thohoyandou) Ref No: LDTCS V1/2025
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 or equivalent qualifications as
recognized by South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). A qualification in
Financial Management will be an added advantage. A minimum of 2 years’
experience in the same or related field. Valid Driver’s Licence (Except for
people with disabilities) Core and Process Competencies Strategic Capability
and Leadership, Programme and Project Management, Change Management,
Financial Management, Knowledge Management, Problem Solving and
Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication. Knowledge
And Skills Knowledge and understanding of legislative framework governing
Public Service, PFMA, Advanced Financial Management, Reporting
procedures, Computer Literacy. Written Communication negotiation skills,
Analytical thinking skills, transformation policies and procedures, Production
process knowledge and skills.
DUTIES : Administer Salary matters. Handle payment of Accounts. Do budget planning
and financial monitoring.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amika Y Tel No: (015) -295 1209, Ms. Mpe N.F: Tel No: (015) 294 8401
2335 ,Mr. Chabani T Tel No: (015) 960 3094
POST 39/224 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: EXPENDITURE REF NO: LDTCS H10/2025 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 or equivalent qualifications as
recognized by South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). A qualification in
Financial Management will be an added advantage. A minimum of 2 years to
experience in the same or related field. Valid Driver’s Licence (Except for
people with disabilities). Core and Process Competencies: Strategic Capability
and Leadership, Programme and Project Management, Change Management,
Financial Management, Knowledge Management, Problem Solving and
Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication. Knowledge
and Skills Knowledge and understanding of legislative framework governing
Public Service, PFMA, Advanced Financial Management, Reporting
procedures, Computer Literacy. Written Communication negotiation skills,
Analytical thinking skills, transformation policies and procedures, Production
process knowledge and skills.
151
DUTIES : Process submitted claims and requests. Process payment of accounts within
thirty days. Implement payment policies and standard operating procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amika Y Tel No: (015) -295 1209, Ms. Mpe N.F Tel No: (015) 294 8401
POST 39/225 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: ASSET AND INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune (Lebowakgomo) Ref No: LDTCS S3/2025
Vhembe (Thohoyandou) Ref No: LDTCS V3/2025)
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 or equivalent qualifications as
recognized by South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). A qualification in
Financial Management will be an added advantage. A minimum of 2 years to
experience in the same or related field. Valid Driver’s Licence (Except for
people with disabilities) Core and Process Competencies: Strategic Capability
and Leadership, Programme and Project Management, Change Management,
Financial Management, Knowledge Management, Problem Solving and
Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication. Knowledge
And Skills: Knowledge and understanding of legislative framework governing
Public Service, PFMA, Advanced Financial Management, Reporting
procedures, Computer Literacy. Written Communication negotiation skills,
Analytical thinking skills, transformation policies and procedures, Production
process knowledge and skills.
DUTIES : Registration of Departmental Assets. Maintenance of Asset register. Updating
of Inventory lists. Conduct disposal of obsolete and redundant assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amika Y Tel No: (015) 295 1209, Ms. Mpe N.F Tel No: (015) 294 8401, Mr.
Chabani T Tel No: (015) 960 3094
POST 39/226 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO: LDTCS
V4/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (level 07)
CENTRE : Vhembe District (Thohoyandou)
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 or equivalent qualifications as
recognized by South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). A qualification in
Financial Management will be an added advantage. A minimum of 2 years to
experience in the same or related field. Valid Driver’s Licence (Except for
people with disabilities)Core And Process Competencies: Strategic Capability
and Leadership, Programme and Project Management, Change Management,
Financial Management, Knowledge Management, Problem Solving and
Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication.: Knowledge
And Skills: Knowledge and understanding of legislative framework governing
Public Service, PFMA, Advanced Financial Management, Reporting
procedures, Computer Literacy. Written Communication negotiation skills,
Analytical thinking skills, transformation policies and procedures, Production
process knowledge and skills.
DUTIES : Monitor the implementation of the procurement plan. Draft specifications and
terms of reference for required goods and services. Registration of suppliers
into CSD System. Conduct prise anaylsis.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Chabani T Tel No: (015) 960 3094
POST 39/227 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: REVENUE AND DEBT (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101.per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mopani District (Giyani) Ref No: LDTCS M3/2025
Vhembe District (Thohoyandou) Ref No: LDTCS V5/2025
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 or equivalent qualifications as
recognized by South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). A qualification in
Financial Management will be an added advantage. A minimum of two (2) to
three (3) years to experience in the same or related field. Valid Driver’s Licence
(with exception of persons with disabilities) Core and Process Competencies:
Strategic Capability and Leadership, Programme and Project Management,
Change Management, Financial Management, Knowledge Management,
Problem Solving and Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer Focus,
Communication. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge and understanding of
legislative framework governing Public Service, PFMA, Advanced Financial
Management, Reporting procedures, Computer Literacy. Written
152
Communication negotiation skills, Analytical thinking skills, transformation
policies and procedures, Production process knowledge and skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate the creation and recovery of departmental debts. Reconciliation of
revenue collected and debts. Monitoring and revenue collection and
safekeeping of state funds. Ensure compliance to rules and regulations of
revenue policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Baloyi C. Tel No: (015) 811 7022 Mr. Banyini G. Tel No: (015) 811 7019,
Mr. Chabani T Tel No: (015) 960 3094
POST 39/228 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: OPERATING LICENSES REF NO: LDTCS
C1/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Capricorn District (Polokwane) Targeting PWD
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) or equivalent as recognised by
SAQA.A qualification in Transport management or related will be an added
advantage. A minimum of 2 years’ experience in the same or related field. Valid
driver’s license (except for persons with disabilities) Core And Process
Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership, Programme and Project
Management, Change Management, Financial Management, Knowledge
Management, Problem Solving and Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer
Focus, Communication. Knowledge And Skills knowledge and understanding
of PFMA, Finance policies, Conflict management skills, problem solving skills,
negotiations skills, Computer literacy, management skills, Interpersonal
relations.
DUTIES : Register Taxi Associations and non members. Arrange operating licenses
board meetings. Verify vehicles ownership. Issue permits and operating
licenses. Collect revenue.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amika Y Tel No: (015) 295 1209, Ms. Mpe N.F Tel No: (015) 294 8401
POST 39/229 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: NATIS REF NO: LDTCS W2/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum. (Level 07)
CENTRE : Waterberg District (Mokopane)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) or equivalent as recognised by
SAQA.A minimum of 2 years’ experience in the same or related field. Valid
driver’s license (except for persons with disabilities). Core And Process
Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership and programme and
Project Management, Change Management, Financial Management,
Knowledge Management, Problem Solving and Analysis, Client Orientation
and Customer Focus, Communication. Knowledge And Skills Knowledge and
understanding of PFMA, Finance policies, Conflict management skills, problem
solving skills, negotiations skills, Computer literacy, management skills,
Interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Registration and licensing of vehicles. Issue drivers and learner’s licenses.
Issue roadworthy certificates. Issue special vehicles permits, motor trade
numbers and allocate license numbers.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Maja M Tel No: (014) 718 2335 Mr. Motloutsi F Tel No: (014) 718 2317
POST 39/230 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PUBLIC TRANSPORT SERVICES (X3
POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Polokwane: Capricorn Ref No: LDTCS C3/2025
Giyani: Mopani Ref No: LDTCS M3/2025
Thohoyandou: Vhembe Ref No: LDTCS V5/2025
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification National Diploma (NQF level 6) or equivalent
as recognised by SAQA. A qualification in Transport Management will be an
added advantage. A minimum of 2 years’ experience in the same or related
field. Valid driver’s license (except for persons with disabilities). Core and
Process Competencies Computer literacy, problem solving, Interpersonal
skills, Time management, Good Communication skills, Professionalism,
Accuracy, Independent, Team player and patience. Knowledge And Skills:
Computer literacy, Interpersonal relations, Planning and Organizational Skills,
Report Writing, report writing, conflict resolution and problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : Investigate matters related to illegal public transport operations. Inspect
subsidized contract agreement and general permits. Monitor bus timetable and
153
routes. Inspect bus and taxi routes. Monitor scholar transport and animal-
drawn carts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amika Y Tel No: (015) 295 1209, Ms. Mpe N.F Tel No: (015) 294 8401, Ms.
Baloyi C Tel No: (015) 811 7022 Mr. Banyini G Tel No: (015) 811 7019, Mr.
Chabani T Tel No: (015) 960 3094
POST 39/231 : TRANSPORT SAFETY OFFICER (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Makhuduthamaga: Sekhukhune Ref No: LDTCS S3/2025
Makhado: Vhembe Ref No: LDTCS V6/2025
Lephalale: Waterberg Ref No: LDTCS W3/2025
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) or equivalent as recognised by
SAQA. A qualification in Transport Management/Road Safety will be an added
advantage. A minimum of 2 years’ experience in the same or related field. Valid
driver’s license (except for persons with disabilities) Core and Process
Competencies: Performance management, Research conducts, Public
Relations, Community Development studies, financial management and
PFMA, Labour Relations Act, Supply Chain management. Knowledge And
Skills: Knowledge of all Road Safety products and programs, Computer
literacy, Interpersonal relations, Planning and Organizational Skills, Report
Writing.
DUTIES : Gather information of hazardous locations where and when required and do
research to find solutions. Implement, facilitate and co-ordinate the
implementation of roads safety education programs. Help with the planning of
road safety awareness campaigns and projects, e.g Arrive Alive campaigns.
Facilitate and coordinate the establishment of community road safety forums.
Assist with road safety education and communication product development.
Evaluate progress and submit monthly reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amika Y Tel No: (015) 295 1209, Ms. Mpe N.F: Tel No: (015) 294 8401, Mr.
Chabani T Tel No: (015) 960 3094, Ms. Maja M Tel No: (014) 718 2335 Mr.
Motloutsi F Tel No: (014) 718 2317
POST 39/232 : HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER REF NO: LDTCS M4/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mopani District (Giyani)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) or equivalent as recognised by
SAQA. An undergraduate qualification in Human Resource Management will
be an added advantage. A minimum of 2 years to experience in the same or
related field. PERSAL Certificate / results. Valid driver’s license (with exception
of persons with disabilities) Core and Process Competencies: Computer
literacy, problem solving, Interpersonal skills, Time management, Good
Communication skills, Professionalism, Accuracy, Independent, Team player
and patience. Knowledge And Skills: Computer literacy, Interpersonal relations,
Planning and Organizational Skills, Report Writing, report writing, conflict
resolution and problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : Administration of recruitment, selection processes, restructuring of packages
and implementation of personal data. Administration of transfers, placement,
relocation, secondments, and implementation of allowances. Administration
and monitoring of leave matters. Administration of service benefits (long
service, housing allowance, state guarantee, financial) and termination.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Baloyi C. Tel No: (015) 811 7022 Mr. Banyini G. Tel No: (015) 811 7019
POST 39/233 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: CONTRAVENTION AND GENERAL ADMIN
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum. (Level 07)
CENTRE : Vhembe (Mampakuil) Waterberg (Modimolle)
Vhembe Ref No: LDTCS V7/2025
Waterberg Ref No: LDTCS W4 /2025
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) or equivalent as recognised by
SAQA. A minimum of 2 years’ experience in the same field. Valid driver’s
license (with the exception of persons with disabilities) Core and Process
Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership, Programme and Project
Management, Change Management, Financial Management, Knowledge
Management, Problem Solving and Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer
154
Focus, Communication. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge and understanding
of Transport policies, Transport regulations, Conflict management, Computer
literacy, Financial management and PFMA, Research conducts, Supply Chain
Management, Labour relations Act, Performance management, Written and
verbal communication skills, Public relations, Analytical skills, Interpersonal
relations, Client orientation, Customer Focus, Teamwork, Planning and
Organizing, Training and development skills.
DUTIES : Supervise and check the receiving and registering of summons on court roll.
Supervise and check the collection of revenue on daily banking. Monitor court
results and provide returns. Render general administrative support services.
Check personnel and financial administration clerical support within the
component
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Chabani T Tel No: (015) 960 3094 Ms. Maja M Tel No: (014) 718 2335 Mr.
Motloutsi F Tel No: (014) 718 2317
POST 39/234 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: NATIS REF NO: LDTCS W5/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Waterberg (Mokopane)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. A qualification in Administration will be an
added advantage. Computer Literacy. Valid Driver’s Licence (Except for people
with disabilities). Core And Process Competencies: Financial systems, Debtors
management and Problem Solving and Analysis, Client Orientation and
Customer Focus, Communication. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge and
understanding of legislative framework governing Public Service, Information
Systems, negotiation skills, analytical skills, Computer Literacy. Analytical
thinking skills, Advanced financial management.
DUTIES : Registration and licensing of vehicles. Issue drivers and learner’s licenses.
Issue roadworthy certificates. Issue special vehicles permits, motor trade
numbers and allocate license numbers. Render administrative duties.
Collection of revenue.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Maja M Tel No: (014) 718 2335 Mr. Motloutsi F Tel No: (014) 718 2317
POST 39/235 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: CONTRAVENTION AND GENERAL ADMIN (X3
POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum. (Level 05)
CENTRE : Capricorn Ref No: LDTCS C4/2025
Polokwane TS (X1 Post)
Polokwane TCC (X1 Post)
Mopani Ref No: LDTCS M5/2025)
(Tzaneen Ts) Targeting PWD (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Computer Literacy. A qualification in
Financial Management will be an added advantage. Valid Driver’s Licence
(Except for people with disabilities) Core and Process Competencies: Financial
systems, Debtors management, Problem Solving and Analysis, Client
Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication. Knowledge And Skills:
Knowledge and understanding of legislative framework governing Public
Service, Information Systems, Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Render general clerical and administration support services. Render financial
support services. Render contravention services. Handle transport services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amika Y Tel No: (015) 295 1209, Ms. Mpe N.F: Tel No: (015) 294 8401,
Ms. Baloyi C. Tel No: (015) 811 7022 Mr. Banyini G. Tel No: (015) 811 7019
POST 39/236 : REGISTRY CLERK: RECORDS AND REGISTRY SERVICES (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office Ref No: LDTCS H12/2025 (X1 Post)
Capricorn Ref No: LDTCS C5/2025 (X1 Post)
Mopani Ref No: LDTCS M6/2025 (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / NQF level 4 or equivalent qualification as recognized by SAQA. A
qualification in Records/Archives management will be an added advantage.
Computer literacy. Valid Driver’s Licence (Except for people with disabilities).
Core And Process Competencies: Client orientation, Customer focus, and
communication, Job knowledge, Interpersonal relations, teamwork, flexibility.
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as the
ability to capture data and operate computer, knowledge and understanding of
155
the legislative framework governing the Public Service, Knowledge of storage
and retrieval procedures in terms of the working environment, Knowledge of
the National Archives Act and the MIS prescripts and procedures.
DUTIES : Provide registry counter services. Handle incoming and outgoing
correspondence. Render an effective filling and records management services.
Operate office machines in relation to the registry function. Process documents
for archiving and disposal.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amika Y Tel No: (015) 295 1209, Ms. Mpe N.F: Tel No: (015) 294 8401,
Ms. Baloyi C. Tel No: (015) 811 7022 Mr. Banyini G. Tel No: (015) 811 7019
POST 39/237 : FINANCE CLERK: CONTRAVENTION AND GENERAL ADMIN REF NO:
LDTCS M7/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum. (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mopani (Tzaneen Ts) Targeting PWD
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Computer Literacy. A qualification in
Administration will be an added advantage. Valid Driver’s Licence (Except for
people with disabilities) Core and Process Competencies: Financial systems,
Debtors management, Problem Solving and Analysis, Client Orientation and
Customer Focus, Communication. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge and
understanding of legislative framework governing Public Service, Information
Systems, negotiation skills, analytical skills, Computer Literacy. Analytical
thinking skills, Advanced financial management.
DUTIES : Receiving and registration of summons. Collection of revenue. Placing
summons on court rolls and follow up on court results. Capturing of summons
on the system. Compile daily, weekly and monthly reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Baloyi C. Tel No: (015) 811 7022 Mr. Banyini G. Tel No: (015) 811 7019
POST 39/238 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: LDTCS S6/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District (Nebo Government Garage)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent qualification as recognized by SAQA. A
qualification in office management will be an added advantage. Valid driver’s
license Core and Process Competencies: Financial systems, Problem Solving,
Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication. Knowledge And
Skills: Knowledge and understanding of legislative framework governing Public
Service, Information Systems, Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Handle HR matters. Perform Auxiliary services for Government Garage.
Handle transport matters. Handle store services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amika Y Tel No: (015) 295 1209, Ms. Mpe N.F Tel No: (015) 294 8401
POST 39/239 : SWITCHBOARD OPERATOR REF NO: LDTCS S4/2025
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District (Lebowakgomo) Targeting PWD
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent qualification as recognized by SAQA.
Computer certificate will be an added advantage. Valid driver’s license Core
and Process Competencies: Financial systems, Debtors management,
Problem Solving and Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer Focus,
Communication. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge and understanding of
legislative framework governing Public Service, Information Systems,
negotiation skills, analytical skills, Computer Literacy. Analytical thinking skills,
Advanced financial management.
DUTIES : Render switchboard services. Maintain switchboard system.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Amika Y Tel No: (015) 295 1209, Ms. Mpe N.F Tel No: (015) 294 8401
POST 39/240 : DRIVER/OPERATOR REF NO: LDTCS M8/2025
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Mopani District (Giyani Government Garage)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent qualification as recognized by SAQA. Public
Driver Permit (PDP) will be an added advantage. 2 years driving experience.
Valid driver’s license Core and Process Competencies: Financial systems,
Debtors management, Problem Solving and Analysis, Client Orientation and
Customer Focus, Communication Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge and
understanding of legislative framework governing Public Service, Information
156
Systems, negotiation skills, analytical skills, Computer Literacy. Analytical
thinking skills, Advanced financial management.
DUTIES : Drive light and medium motor vehicles transporting passengers and other
departmental items (mail and documents) Do routine maintenance on allocated
vehicles and report defect timely. Complete all required and prescribed records
and logbooks with regard to the vehicle and goods handled. Render
messenger service in the relevant office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Baloyi C Tel No: (015) 811 7022 Mr. Banyini G Tel No: (015) 811 7019
POST 39/241 : TRADESMAN AID REF NO: LDTCS V8/2025) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Vhembe District (Sibasa Government Garage)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 certificate or equivalent qualification as recognized by SAQA. Trade
certificate will be an added advantage. 2 years driving experience. Valid
driver’s license Core and Process Competencies: Client orientation, Customer
focus, Communication, Job knowledge, Interpersonal relations, teamwork,
flexibility. Knowledge And Skills: Reading and writing skills, knowledge and
understanding of mechanical tools and how to use them.
DUTIES : Assist Artisan with repairs. Clean workshop bay. Clean vehicles. Assist in
Auction preparations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Chabani T Tel No: (015) 960 3094
POST 39/242 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: LDTCS V9/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Vhembe District (Dzanani Ts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 certificate or equivalent qualification as recognized by SAQA. Core
And Process Competencies: Client orientation, Customer focus,
Communication, Job knowledge, Interpersonal relations, teamwork, flexibility.
Knowledge And Skills: Reading and writing skills, knowledge and
understanding of cleaning chemicals and tools and how to use them.
DUTIES : Clean the surrounding. Plant grass, trees and flowers. Load and offload goods.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Chabani T Tel No: (015) 960 3094
157
ANNEXURE S
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY SAFETY, SECURITY & LIAISON
APPLICATIONS : https://forms.cloud.microsoft/r/Rf2T3J3ian
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025 at 16H15
NOTE : Applications on the new Z83 form shall be fully completed via e-recruitment
system through a link provided above and upload a detailed Curriculum Vitae
only. Copies of qualifications and other relevant documents shall be submitted
by shortlisted candidates only on or before the day of the interview. The
Curriculum Vitae must have at least three (3) reference persons and their
contacts, failure to provide accurate information on a job application as well as
incomplete information will result in a disqualification. Requirements stated on
the advertised posts are minimum inherent requirements; therefore, criteria for
shortlisting will depend on the proficiency of the applications received.
Communication will be done to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been
contacted within three months after the closing date of this advertisement,
please accept that your application has been unsuccessful.
OTHER POST
POST 39/243 : CHIEF PROVINCIAL INSPECTOR: TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT (X8
POSTS)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Moretele Ref No: DCSSL/01/25
Delmas Ref No. DCSSL/02/25
KwaMhlanga Ref No. DCSSL/03/25
Standerton Ref No. DCSSL/04/25
Volkrust Ref No DCSSL/05/2025
Mhala Ref No. DCSSL/06/25
Mapulaneng Ref No. DCSSL/07/25
Tonga Ref No. DCSSL/08/25
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma NQF 6, 3-5 years’ supervisory experience. 7-10 years’
working experience in the Traffic Law Enforcement field. Valid driving license
(A and EC). No criminal record.
DUTIES : Manage and enforce Road Traffic, Public Passenger, Transport Legislation and
other relevant legislations. Manage joint law enforcement activities and
projects (Co-operative governance). Manage the implementation of
operational law enforcement. Manage resources and provide leadership and
direction to all subordinates. Identify and manage risk. Manage the
performance of all administrative activities and related duties. Manage and
administer the cost centre.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Mathebula Tel No: (013) 766 4019 or Ms S Masango Tel No: (017) 811
1433
Ms N Mathebula Tel No: (013) 766 9152 or Ms A Seku Tel No: (013) 766 4905.
NOTE : It is the Departments’ intention to promote representivity (race, gender, and
disability)
158
ANNEXURE T
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT SAFETY AND LIAISON
This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representivity in all occupational categories in the Department
APPLICATIONS : Applications stating the relevant reference number must be sent to: Head of
Department: Department of Transport, Safety and Liaison, Southern Life
Building, Cnr Du Toitspan and Chapel Street, Kimberley, 8300. Applications
may be emailed to dtsl_recruitment.ncpg.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms.J.J.Jafta
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
NOTE : Note" in line with DPSA Circular 19 of 2022, (Only Z83 and CV are submitted,
on other documents) the form which can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-
vacancies or obtained at any government department. A recently updated,
comprehensive CV, with at least two (2) contactable references should
accompany the fully completed and signed new (Z83) form. The provision of
certified copies of qualifications will only be required from shortlisted
candidates for submission on or before the day of the interview. Shortlisted
applicants will be subjected to qualification verification, reference checking,
security screening and vetting. Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and to provide
proof of such evaluation only when shortlisted. Correspondence will be limited
to successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail
themselves at the Department’s convenience. The department reserves the
right not to make appointments to the advertised post. Incomplete applications,
applications received after the closing date or applications without SAQA
verification reports for foreign qualifications will not be considered. It is
important to note that it is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all
information and attachments in support of the application are submitted by the
due date. Each application for employment form (Z83) must be duly signed and
initialled by the applicant. Failure to sign this form will lead to disqualification
during the selection process. Applications submitted using the old Z83, as well
as not submitting the required documents will result in the application not being
considered. All applications, including those submitted via registered mail must
reach the department before 16:00 on the day of the closing date; late
applications will not be considered. "Note" in line with DPSA Circular 19 of
2022, applicants should submit applications on the new Z83 form only.
OTHER POST
POST 39/244 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT AND COORDINATION
OFFICER IN THE OFFICE OF THE MEMBER OF THE EXECUTIVE
COUNCIL REF NO: S4.1/07/01
Directorate: Office of the Head of Department
Re-advertisement, those who previously applied need not re-apply
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with MMS dispensation.
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree in administration/ public administration and/or equivalent
qualification at NQF level 6 three (3) years’ experience applicable to the
relevant discipline at Assistant Director level. Valid driver’s license. Knowledge:
Broad knowledge and understanding of the functional areas covered by the
Executive Authority’s portfolio, Proven management competencies, Working
knowledge of the political and parliamentary processes in South Africa.
Computer literacy, Flexibility, Verbal and written communication skills and
Interpersonal relations. Analytical thinking, Leadership, Teamwork, Ability to
work under pressure, Proven management competencies, Understanding of
the Public Service Regulations and related prescripts.
DUTIES : Manage the administrative and coordination activities within the office of the
Executive Authority. Liaise with internal and external role players with regard to
matters relating to the portfolio of the executive authority. Render a
Cabinet/Executive Council support service to the Executive Authority.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs J Jafta at 069 224 6157
159
NOTE : Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
160
ANNEXURE U
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTH WEST
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY SAFETY AND TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT
This Department is an Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Employer. It is our intention to promote
representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Department through the filling of these posts and
candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity will receive preference. An
indication in this regard will facilitate the processing of applications. During the current financial year,
the EE targets for the Department are: African Females for Persons with Disabilities on salary levels 8 to
10; African Females on salary levels 11 to 13. Indian Males on salary levels 7 to 12 positions. Candidates
within these categories are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : The Head of Department, Department of Community Safety and Transport
Management, Private Bag X19, Mmabatho, 2735 Office No. 105, 1st Floor,
Tirelo Building, Cnr Albert Luthuli Drive and Dr. James Moroka Drive, for
Attention Kegomoditswe Makaota Office NO. 018 200 8258 OR email to the
relevant e-mail address associated with the post applied for.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025 (Posted, Handed and E-mailed Applications must have
reached The Department by 16h30 pm Walk-in and 00h00 Mid-night online,
late applications as a rule are not accepted).
NOTE : Please Note: On the Subject Line of your E-mail, Indicate the Correct Job Title
and the Reference number of the post. All applications must be emailed to the
correct indicated email address. All attachments for Online Submission must
include Only Z83 Form and an Updated Curriculum Vitae in PDF Format and
be emailed to the correct email address, as one document. Failure to do so,
your application will be disqualified. Applications must be submitted on the
improved Z83, approved to be utilized with effect 01 January 2021, which must
be completed in such a manner that provides sufficient information about your
candidature and the post applied for by completing all relevant fields. The
declaration must be signed and initials on the second page are not mandatory.
Should the applicant/s use incorrect application form for employment (Z83), or
not compliant to the notes, the application/s will not be considered for selection
purposes (disqualified). The Z83 must be accompanied by detailed Curriculum
Vitae with at least three (3) names of referees with current contact details.
Subjects of relevant qualification/s should be mentioned in the CV. Completion
of the Z83 form: Part A: All fields must be fully completed. Part B: Date of birth
and ID number are compulsory and other fields may be left blank, marked as
not relevant, and use dashes or N/A if they do not apply to you or the position
applied for and as long as the CV has been attached and provides the required
information. Part C, D, E, F and G may be left blank, marked as not relevant,
and use dashes or N/A if they do not apply to you or the position applied for
and as long as the CV has been attached and provides the required
information, however question related to conditions that prevent re-
appointment under Part F is compulsory for applicants seeking re-employment
into the Public Service. Applicants do not have to submit
copies//proof/certificates/attachments/drivers licence/qualifications on
application. Only shortlisted candidates for the post will be required to submit
certified documents on or before the day of the interviews. The employment
application form (Z83) is obtainable at any National or Provincial Department,
and it is accessible on the DPSA web-site, www.dpsa.gov.za Failure to submit
or comply with the requested documents will result in the application not being
considered. Should the applicant fail to submit or not comply with the requested
documents or not meet minimum requirements of the job as per the post
advertised, this will result in the employment application not being considered.
Qualifications of shortlisted candidates will be verified with SAQA. Persons in
possession of a foreign qualification must furnish this Department with an
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA).
Positions requiring tertiary qualification/s must be accompanied by copies of
academic record/transcript(s). Candidates must indicate the number of the
post/reference number in their applications. Candidates requiring additional
information regarding an advertised post must direct their queries to the person
reflected as enquiries below the post applied for. Applications should be
forwarded in time to the department since applications received after the
closing date indicated below will as a rule not be accepted. It will be expected
of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a date, time and place
as determined by the Department. The Department reserves the right not to
make appointments, and correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
161
candidates only. Personnel suitability check records will be conducted.
Applicants must disclose if she/he is not a Director/Shareholder of a company
or conducting any business with organ of State. They must also disclose or
inform whether he/she is performing any additional remunerative work outside
his /her normal duties. All appointments are subjected to a positive
qualification’s verification as well as security clearance. SMS appointments are
also subjected to SMS competency assessment as a DPSA requirement. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts and positions with requisite skills will be
subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job. Applicants who do not possess SMS Pre-Entry Certificate
shall be considered for shortlisting and interviews but cannot be appointed
before they successfully obtain the certificate. (SMS Pre-Entry Programme) is
offered by the National School of government, information can be accessed via
this link: https://www.thensg.gov.za. The appointee to SMS post must be in
possession of such, prior to taking up the post. NB: Salary level 1 to 12: All
shortlisted candidates will be subjected to practical exercise and integrity
assessment test.
OTHER POST
POST 39/245 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CHANGE MANAGEMENT REF NO: 54/2025/26
Directorate: Human Resource Management
This is a re-advertisement; candidates who previously applied are encouraged
to Reapply)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office- Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent. National Diploma/Bachelor’s Degree (NQF
level 6/7) qualification in Public Management/Public
Administration/Administration/Industrial Psychology as recognised by SAQA
coupled with three (3) to five (5) years relevant experience in Change
Management of which two (2) years must be at a Practitioner/ Senior
Practitioner Level (Level 7/8). A valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Knowledge
of Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act, Public Finance Management
Act, Treasury Regulations and HR practice and procedures. Knowledge of
DPSA resolutions and guidelines. Change Management tools, principles and
methodologies. Customer Care (Batho Pele Principles). Skills: Good
Communication Skills (Verbal and Writing), Good Interpersonal, report writing,
Project Management, Presentation, and facilitation skills. Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Coordinate the integration of Service Delivery Improvement Plans. Monitor the
coordination of Change Management Engagement Programmes. Coordinate
the implementation of Batho Pele programme within the Department. Monitor
the Coordination and preparation of Departmental Annual Citizens Report.
Conduct individual and organisational climate and culture surveys. Manage all
performed administrative activities and key responsibilities of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. K Twasing Tel No: (018) 200 8076
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment12@nwpg.gov.za
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENT, CONSERVATION, AND TOURISM
This Department is an Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Employer. It is our intention to promote
representivity (race, gender and disability) e.g. Whites, Indians, Coloureds, Africans and other
marginalized groups. People with disability are encouraged to apply. The candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Completed newly subscribed Z83 application forms and the Comprehensive
CV quoting the relevant reference number, may either be hand-delivered to
Department of Economic Development, Environment, Conservation and
Tourism, NWDC Building, Cnr University Drive and Provident Street,
Mmabatho, 2745 or use the correct Email as referenced in each advert,
E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT1-7@nwpg.gov.za (1-7)
Email: ApplicationsDEDECT8-10@nwpg.gov.za (8-10)
E-mail: dedectapplications@nwpg.gov.za (11-15)
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025, (Posted, Handed and E-mailed Applications must have
reached the Department by 16h30 pm Walk-in and 00h00 Mid-night online (late
submissions as a rule, will not be accepted).
NOTE : Please Note: On the Subject Line of your E-mail, Indicate the Correct Job Title
and the Reference number of the post. All attachments for Online Submission
162
must include Only Z83 Form and Updated Curriculum Vitae be in PDF Format,
as one document. Failure to do so, your application will be disqualified.
Compliance: It is compulsory to fill all fields on the New Amended Z83 Form
(81/971431) as prescribed with effect 01 January 2021, the form is obtainable
from any Public Service Departments or on the DPSA Website,
www.dpsa.gov.za. Part A must be fully completed by the applicant, indicate
correct advertised Post name and Reference number, Centre, Notice period on
the z83 form. Z83 form part of Declaration must be signed, dated and initialed
only on the first page. The Z83 Form must be accompanied by a recently
updated/ detailed Curriculum Vitae and include three (3) names contactable
referees. The personal details and the subjects of relevant qualification, should
be mentioned on the CV, also clearly indicating current positions held in a
sequence dates. Outline or provide sufficient information about related
experience and key responsibilities with respective dates. Part B, C and D must
be fully completed. Part E, F and G do not need to be completed if the CV has
provided the updated information. Part F is compulsory to be completed for
applicants seeking re-employment into Public Service. Please Note: It is a
responsibility of a Person in possession of a foreign qualification to furnish the
Department with an evaluation certificate from South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Only shortlisted candidate(s) for post
will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the
interview. Senior Management Pre-entry Programme Certificate: No applicant
shall be recommended for appointment without producing a Certificate of
completion (Nyukela) obtain via this link: https://www.thensg.gov.za. Failure to
submit the requested information will result in your application not being
considered. The e-mailed applications will be accepted. Applications received
after the closing date will, as a rule not be accepted. It will be expected of
candidates to be available for interview process on a date, time and place as
determined by the Department. Applicant’s previous information as
background/reference checks will be verified through contactable referees.
Shortlisted candidate(s) will be required to undergo personnel suitability checks
and will be subjected to security screening which include, criminal records,
citizenship, financial credits, asset records, qualifications verification and
vetting. The Department reserves the right not to make any appointments to
the advertised posts. The successful candidate will enter into an annual
performance agreement and annually disclose his/her financial interest. NB: All
shortlisted candidate(s) for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical
competency exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job.
Recommended candidate(s) will be required to attend generic managerial
competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools.
Applicants requiring additional information regarding advertised post must
direct their enquiries to the relevant person indicated. NB: Communication and
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not
receive any response from us within three months after the closing date, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 39/246 : DIRECTOR: TOURIST GUIDING AND REGULATORY SERVICES REF NO:
01/DEDECT/ 2025/NW
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum. The inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund, medical
fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules. The successful
candidate will be required to enter into an employment contract and
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Head Office - Mafikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus Bachelor’s degree in Tourism Management,
related field or equivalent (NQF Level 7). Must have at least minimum of five
(5) years’ experience in middle/senior managerial level. A valid driver’s license.
Competencies: Proven strategic planning and advance Project Management.
Flexibility to work awkward hours and weekends, proven coordination and
project management skills. Ability to work with diverse internal and external
stakeholders. Advanced computer literacy such as excel and power point.
Knowledge: In-depth knowledge in tourism related policies, strategies
Extensive knowledge and understanding of the tourism value chain. In-depth
knowledge of prescripts and processes applicable within the Public Service like
163
Public Financial Management Act. Good understanding of the Provincial
Tourism dynamic.
DUTIES : Legislative appointment as Provincial Registrar and all related duties,
Provincial Tourism Complaints Officer, Investigate and report on all the
complaints and report to National, Represent the Province at the Registrars
Forum at National. Management the Directorates Financial and Human
Resources, strategic management, project and programme management, the
development of systems for the registration of tourist guides across all the
districts. Manage compliance with applicable legislative requirements for
registration of tourist guides and tourism business. Manage and facilitate the
resolution of tourism complaints. Administer the reported tourism complaints in
liaison with the Director. Coordinate the implementation of training, capacity
building programmes, workshops, seminars for tourist guides and/or tour
operators etc. across the province. Coordinate the implementation of
enforcement compliance awareness inspections with different stakeholders.
ENQUIRY : Ms Sarah Manone Tel No: (018) 388 5512
APPLICATIONS Use the correct E-mail: dedectapplications@nwpg.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 39/247 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTERNAL COMMUNICATIONS REF NO: 02
/DEDECT /2025/NW
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all- inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) certificate plus Bachelor’s degree in Communications /
Public Relations / Marketing / Journalism (NQF Level 7). Three (3) years' first
level / middle management relevant experience. Competencies Knowledge:
Knowledge: The Government Communication and Information System
Government Communication strategies and policies; Public Finance
Management Act; Public Service Regulations; Public Service Act; Public
Service Code of Conduct; All Labour Legislations; Departmental policies and
procedures; Corporate governance; Minimum Information Security Standard;
Batho Pele Principles. Skills: Communication. Creative Writing. Editing and
proofreading. Computer literacy. Management. Analytical. Project
Management. Conflict Management.
DUTIES : Manage Internal Communications. Manage Corporate Identity, Publications
and Graphic Design Services. Manage Website, Intranet and Social Media
Pages. Manage Internal Event Services including promotional material.
Manage resources in the Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Jeremiah Matebesi Tel No: (018) 388 1335
APPLICATIONS Use the correct E-mail: dedectapplications@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/248 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LIQOUR ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
03/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all- inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus bachelor’s degree in law/public
administration/ Business Administration/Management or equivalent (NQF 7). A
minimum of 3 years’ first level/middle management experience in the
regulatory environment, experience in liquor related field will be an added
advantage. A valid driver’s license. Competencies Ability to interpret and apply
policies and guidelines, preferably in legislative framework. Highly motivated
analytical individual who has the ability to work independently. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Excellent Organizational, planning and
management skills. Computer literacy and research skills. Understanding of
government policies. Good interpersonal and customers skills. Ability to work
in a team and under pressure. Extensive knowledge and understanding of
PFMA, PAJA, PAIA, POPIA the National and Provincial liquor legislation.
DUTIES : Manage and oversee the Liquor Administration Sub-directorate; Manage the
overall Administration pertaining to applications of liquor licenses and ensure
implementation of liquor legislation and policies. Ensuring all applications are
received, recorded and validated. Monitor liquor application system and
generate reports. Manage the provision of secretariat support and
administrative services of the liquor board. Manage all correspondences and
complaints. Ensure that all board resolutions are communicated.
164
Understanding on implication of court papers. Communicate with all relevant
stakeholders. Manage the finances of the sub unit. Manage the provision of
liquor renewals and revenue services. Submit monthly and quarterly reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Khumo Taoana Tel No: (018) 388 5959
APPLICATIONS Use the correct E-mail: dedectapplications@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/249 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS REF NO:
04/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all- inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Head Office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus Bachelor’s Degree in Social
Work/Psychology or equivalent. (NQF 7) Minimum three (3) years’ first
level/middle management experience in Employee Health and Wellness
(EHW) environment. Registration with Health Professions Council of South
Africa (HPCSA) or South African Council for Social Services Professions
(SACSSP). Must be in possession of a valid driver’s licence. Competencies:
Knowledge of Employee Health and Wellness Strategic Framework in the
Public Service and its related policies. Knowledge of Occupational Health and
Safety Act, and COIDA Act Problem solving and good communication skills.
Planning and organising skills. Writing and analytical skills. Computer literacy.
Facilitation and presentation skills. Project Management skills.
DUTIES : Manage the implementation of Occupational Health, Safety and Environmental
Management strategies and programmes. Manage the implementation of HIV
and AIDS, TB and other communicable diseases. Ensure implementation of
prevention, support and treatment care programmes. Manage the
implementation of Health and Productivity Management programmes. Manage
and facilitate the implementation of the Employee Health and Wellness
Management programmes. Develop Policies and Standard Operating
Procedures to guide the implementation of (EHW); HIV, TB and STI's; Safety,
Health, Environment, Risk and Quality; as well as; Health and Productivity
Management programmes. Management of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Vuyisile Mkhokheli Tel No: (018) 388 5008
APPLICATIONS Use the correct E-mail: dedectapplications@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/250 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATION SUPPORT AND CO-ORDINATION
MEC SUPPORT REF NO: 05/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Head Office Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus appropriate bachelor’s degree or equivalent.
(NQF7) A minimum of three (3) year’s first level/middle management relevant
experience. Competencies: Broad knowledge and understanding of the
functional areas covered by the Executive Authority’s portfolio. Working
knowledge of the administrative processes in the Office of the Executive
Authority. Proven management competencies. Report writing skills.
Presentation skills. Computer literacy. Problem solving skills.
DUTIES : Manage the administrative and coordination activities within the office of the
Executive Authority. Manage the procurement and maintenance of equipment’s
and administer the budget in the office of the executive authority. Manage the
Logistical support in the office of the executive authority for meetings and
related activities. Render a Cabinet/Executive council support service to the
executive authority. Liaise with internal and external role-players matters
relating to the Portfolio of the Executive authority. Ensure quality control of the
work delivered and managing the distribution of documents and submissions
to the relevant Legislature and standing/portfolio committees. Provide
operational leadership for administrative support services in the office
Executive Authority (EA). Plan, coordinate, organise and facilitate provision of
registry and all frontline and customer care services. Plan, coordinate and
provide general supervision of the employees in the office of the executive
authority. Assist office of the Executive Authority with role playing on
stakeholder service.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Vuyisile Mkhokheli Tel No: (018) 388- 5008
APPLICATIONS Use the correct E-mail: dedectapplications@nwpg.gov.za
165
POST 39/251 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TOURISM GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
06/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Dr Ruth Mompati Segomotsi Mompati
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus Bachelor’s Degree in Tourism Management,/
Development Studies, /Sustainable Development or equivalent. (NQF7)
Minimum of 3 years first level/middle management relevant experience.
Stakeholder co-ordination and management at provincial and local level.
Advanced project management expertise. Advanced Knowledge of the Tourism
industry, related Legislation and Policies. A valid driver’s license.
Competencies /Knowledge/Skills: Knowledge in tourism related policies,
strategies and guidelines. In-depth knowledge of government planning, norms,
standards and applicable legislation. Public service finance management and
reporting systems. Project management techniques, systems. Risk
Management. Project management. Proven strategic planning. Planning and
organizing skills. Research and analyzing skills to be able to interpret the
feasibility study, viability studies and market intelligence predicting which
direction tourism development should take. Presentation skills. Financial
Management. Excellent Communication skills. Negotiation skills. Good
computer literacy.
DUTIES : Undertake tourism development needs assessment in the district. Design and
roll out support measures to enhance tourism development and promotion in
the district. Coordinate the Departments programmes and activities in the
districts. Develop and roll out an effective tourism stakeholder framework and
advisory system. Attend and present plans, strategies of the department at
district and local structures. Manage the operations of the district office.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Tlhopane Nthatisi Tel No: (018) 388 5970
APPLICATIONS Use the correct E-mail: dedectapplications@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/252 : MANAGER IN THE OFFICE OF THE HOD REF NO: 07/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus bachelor’s degree in public administration/or
Equivalent (NQF7) Minimum of three (3) years’ first level/middle management
Experience in Related Field. Proven experience in supervisory position
preferable in the office of the Executive management/ Accounting officer.
Driver’s Licence. Competency: Report Writing Skills. Good Verbal and Written
Communication Skills. Understanding and Interpretation of Public Service
Policy and Cluster System. Strategic Planning. Good Interpersonal Customer
Relations Skills. Computer Operational Skills and Knowledge of Microsoft
Programmes. Financial Management. Ability to Work as a Team and Under
Pressure.
DUTIES : Manage The Incoming and Outgoing Documents and Correspondence in the
Office of HoD. Liaise With Internal Clients and Other Relevant Stakeholders for
Information. Provide Administration Support and Secretariat Services to the
HoD. Prepare Annual Schedule to Facilitate and Coordinate H.O.D Meeting.
Manage the HoD ‘S Office Budget and ensure that Procurement of Goods and
Services Is in line with the procurement legislative framework.
ENQUIRES : Mr. Vuyisile Mkhokheli Tel No: (018) 388 5008
APPLICATIONS Use the correct E-mail: dedectapplications@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/253 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTERNAL CONTROL REF NO:
08/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus three (3) year auditing tertiary qualification
or equivalent (NQF 7), three (3) years’ first level/middle management
experience in the relevant field. Auditing experience with completed articles will
serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of PFMA, Knowledge of treasury regulations, Knowledge of public
services regulations, Knowledge of supply chain management framework
policy and any latest developments in this area. Good communication skills,
computer skills, writing skills, accounting skills and auditing skills.
166
DUTIES : Manage the development and monitor implementation of standard operating
procedures, policies, and administrative controls to ensure compliance. Identify
potential strategic and operational risks in the financial management
environment, recommend, and implement mitigation strategies. Manage
processes to detect, prevent and report losses, fruitless, wasteful, and irregular
expenditure. Ensure coordination of internal and external audits in the office.
Ensure the implementation of improvement plans. Management of fraud and
loss factors. Manage the retention of financial records.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Oduetse. Diutlwileng Tel No: (018) 388 5927
APPLICATIONS Use the correct E-mail: dedectapplications@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/254 : SCIENTIST PRODUCTION GRADE B – ECOLOGIST REF NO:
09/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R866 304 per annum, (OSD Determination)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus M.Sc. Biological science or Conversation
Biology. Minimum of 14 years’ experience in Ecology as scientists. Working
experience in a government or research environment is required, as is proven
experience in running conservation related projects. Valid drivers’ license code
08 (EB). Must be registered with SACNASP in relevant field as required by
OSD. Competencies: Through understanding of Ecology principles in the fields
of Zoology, botany and conservation biology focusing on herbivores. Thorough
understanding/experience of the application, evaluation and implementations
of carrying capacity models. Through understanding/experience of conducting
ecological surveying techniques collecting data for modelling purposes.
Thorough understanding of the principles and application of GIS. Sound
understanding of the principles of experimental design and statistics. Ability to
manage, motivate and mentor staff to ensure maximum productivity and
optimal development of skills. Demonstrate the ability to effectively
communicate and interface with a wide variety of stakeholders (public,
scientists, staff etc.) including the ability to chair meeting, run workshops,
deliver scientific and popular papers. Strategic thinker with the ability to
priorities and adapt according to circumstances. Knowledge of CITES and RED
DATA species. Ability to work effectively as a leader and part of multi-
disciplinary teams. Must be physically fit and willingly and able to undertake
strenuous fieldwork.
DUTIES : Provide sound ecological information on herbivores as an ecologist and advice
to Department on all aspects of biodiversity conservation, biodiversity projects
and relevant legislative inter actions. Initiate, coordinate and undertake
biodiversity research projects and programmes that provide information
contributing to better understanding of species and ecosystems and that
support conservation management decisions. Design and undertake
monitoring programmes to evaluate conservation goal attainment and the
effectiveness of management interventions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Willem Boshoff Tel No: (018) 389 5204
APPLICATIONS Use the correct E-mail: dedectapplications@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/255 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER: GRADE A (ENVIRONMENTAL
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT AND REPORTING) REF NO:
10/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R612 480 per annum, (OSD Determination)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus 4-year degree (NQF 7) majoring in the field
of Information Management or Environmental Management or equivalent.
Minimum of ten (10) years’ experience in environmental management and
information management. Experience in use of spatial data. Valid drivers’
licence code 08 (EB). Competencies: Knowledge on environmental indicators.
Sound knowledge of South African Environmental Legislation, Policies,
Protocols and Interventions. Knowledge of various other national, local and
provincial government laws, strategies and plans affecting the environment
(e.g. NDP, PDP, EIP). General awareness of environmental issues. Knowledge
on Public Service delivery and of Batho Pele principles. Advanced computer
literacy in MS Office (MS Word, MS Excel, and MS Outlook). Experience in the
use of GIS software. Good verbal and written communication skills.
Environmental indicators framework. Database management. Data processing
167
and interpretation skills. Managerial skills: project Management skills, financial
management analytical skills. Time management skills. Conflict management
skills. Report writing skills. Personal attributes: conscientious, dedicated,
innovative, organised and ability to meet deadlines. Ability to work in a team
and independently.
DUTIES : Provide effective reporting services for the Programme Environmental Services
eg. Reporting on implementation of the Environmental Sector Local
Government Implementation Plan, Compilation and submission of
departmental Monthly, Quarterly and Annual reports for Chief Directorate.
Liaise with stakeholders on all aspects of environmental reporting. Coordinate
Strategic Planning activities for the Chief Directorate. Develop an integrated
state of the environment reporting system including the collection of data and
development of provincial environmental performance indicators. Support the
state of environment reporting at local level. Participate and provide input into
relevant National and Provincial Forums. Develop and maintain an integrated
Environmental Information Management System, including GIS, to support
reporting, spatial information, environmental permitting, impact assessments
and various information systems as required by legislation. Overall
management of information management system projects and other related
projects. Mapping, storage and processing of spatial data in line with the
District Development Model and DPME guideline. Perform administrative
duties related to the post and assist with budget inputs and planning. Manage
staff and resources within the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tharina Boshoff at 079 511 2320
APPLICATIONS Use the correct E-mail: dedectapplications@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/256 : CONTROL BIODIVERSITY OFFICER: GRADE A BIODIVERSITY
PERMITTING AND CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS REF NO:
11/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R612 480 per annum, (OSD Determination)
CENTRE : Mahikeng
REQUREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus Bachelor’s degree (NQF7) in Nature
Conservation in Nature Conservation/Environmental Management
Sciences/Natural Sciences or equivalent Additional National Diploma in
Policing Science and/or EMI certificate will be an added advantage At least
three (3) years’ experience in Biodiversity Regulatory at supervisory level A
valid driver’s license. Competencies: Knowledge of sustainable use of natural
resources and ecosystems, alien and invasive species, cites and threatened
or protected species Criminal Case Management competencies Ability to
testify and adduce evidence in court Extensive knowledge of the Promotion of
Administrative Justice Act and Criminal Procedure Act Conversant with
contents of legislative frameworks governing biodiversity management and
conservation Ability to use computers, verbal & written communication, report
writing, work in and outdoors under pressure, and extensive driving.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be required to manage Biodiversity Permitting
and Investigation Sub-directorate of the North West Province Management of
nature conservation based investigations and the permitting processes within
the Province Management and generation of the provincial biodiversity
permitting, administrative and criminal cases statistics for reporting purposes
at both provincial and national levels Management of the provincial elephant
tusk and rhino horn stock Establish and manage provincial wildlife crime
forums with various stakeholders, and facilitate of the intelligence driven
investigation processes Represent the province at national and international
forums Biodiversity Prepare monthly, quarterly and annual reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Jonathan Denga Tel No: (018) 389 5527
APPLICATIONS Use the correct E-mail: dedectapplications@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/257 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A: WASTE
MANAGEMENT REF NO: 12/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R612 480 per annum, (OSD Determination)
CENTRE : Head Office Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus Minimum of three(3) Year Degree in
Environmental Management/ Science or Natural Science or equivalent.
Minimum of 4 years’ appropriate experience in an area after obtaining the
relevant qualification. Competencies: Environmental legislation, regulations
168
and policy formulation. Monitoring techniques for waste facilities. Basic
knowledge of environmental issues, Interpretation of legislation, good
communication skills (verbal and written), Project management skill, Problem-
solving, Computer literacy, report-writing and evaluation skills; ability to work
under pressure, time conscious, teamwork, dedicated and trustworthy. It is
compulsory to have driver’s license. Basic GIS is as added advantage.
DUTIES : Manage the development and implementation of Provincial integrated waste
management plans (IWMP); Support municipalities and industries in the
development and implementation of their Integrated Waste Management Plans
(IWMPs). Manage the implementation of strategies and programs to promote
the waste management hierarchy. Manage response to emergency incidents
and complaints pertaining to waste activities. Management and evaluation of
the Waste Management License applications (including Section 24 G, Basic
Assessment Report, Scoping Reports, Variations, Renewals, Reviews,
Surrender and Registration of Waste management activities with Norms and
Standards) and undertake site inspection, in reaching legally defensible
decision within operational plan timeframe and uploaded on National
Environmental Authorization System. Manage the implementation of Waste
Information system in the province. Perform and manage administrative and
related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Basadi Moselakgomo at 072 240 5551
APPLICATIONS Use the correct E-mail: dedectapplications@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/258 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER: GRADE A (CLIMATE CHANGE)
REF NO: 13/DEDECT/2025/NW
(12 Months contract)
SALARY : R612 480 per annum, (OSD Determination)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade12) certificate plus four-year degree in Environmental Sciences
(Natural/Physical/Environmental Sciences). Minimum of ten (10) years’ post-
qualification experience in environmental management with a focus on or
experience in climate change. Valid driver’s license). Competencies Sound
knowledge of: Development and implementation of environmental policies,
legislation, strategies, action plans and standards; Provincial strategies and
implementation plans affecting climate change; Public service delivery and
Batho Pele principles; Environmental issues specifically with climate change
mitigation and adaptation measures. Relevant skills: Project management,
budgeting and financial management; Managerial and supervisory abilities;
Stakeholder engagement, Negotiation and conflict management; Advanced
written and verbal communication and report writing; Computer literacy,
including GIS and MS Office. Personal attributes: conscientious, dedicated,
innovative, organised and able to meet deadlines; capable of working both
independently and in a team.
DUTIES : Oversee project management, human resource management and financial
management of the sub-directorate. Coordinate climate change policy
development processes, programmes, projects and initiatives at departmental
and provincial levels. Develop legislated tools, policies, procedures, systems
and guidelines to guide decision-making in line with the Climate Change Act
2024. Track progress on provincial climate change responses and ensure
targets in the North West Climate Change Response Implementation Plan are
met. Integrate climate change considerations into strategies and planning
processes at provincial and local government levels. Conduct and commission
research to support climate change policy development and decision-making.
Participate in and support national, provincial and local climate change forums
and comment on related legislation, policies and strategies. Lead stakeholder
consultations and capacity-building sessions within provincial and local
government; organise and deliver workshops, seminars and presentations to
government, business, civil society and other stakeholders. Provide
leadership, human resource and financial management to the sub-directorate,
including project management, budgeting, expenditure and procurement
processes. Prepare and to E submit monthly and quarterly reports and
contribute to planning and evaluation processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tharina Boshoff at 079 511 2320
APPLICATIONS Use the correct E-mail: dedectapplications@nwpg.gov.za
169
POST 39/259 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (MR6) REF
14/DEDECT/2025/NW
(This is a re-advertisement, candidates who previously applied are encouraged
to re-apply)
SALARY : R556 356 per annum, (OSD Package)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent plus LLB Degree or equivalent relevant
qualification. At least eight (8) years appropriate post qualification legal
experience. Extensive experience at Supervisory level in Civil Litigations,
legislative drafting, drafting of legal opinions, labour relations practices in the
Public Service, contract drafting and interpretation. Valid driver’s license
Competencies: Sound knowledge of the legislative frameworks that governs
the operations of the public services environment. A sound knowledge of on
the drafting of legislations and regulations. A sound knowledge on the
interpretation of statutes and regulations and other legal instruments. A sound
knowledge on formulating legal advice and opinions in relation to legislations
and regulations. A comprehensive knowledge on the process of legislative
drafting. A comprehensive knowledge on the drafting and interpretation of
policies. Skills: Good interpersonal relations. Report writing. Case investigation
and project management skills. Good conflict resolutions and mediation skills.
Computer literacy. Ability to work in a team as well as independently.
Communication skills. Ability to conduct research on legislative and civil
litigation processes.
DUTIES : Study the impact and implications of Legislations and Regulations and advice
the Department accordingly. Examine the various forms of Legislations and
Regulations that impact upon the Department and determine whether there is
a need to amend or repeal same. Interpret, draft and/or facilitate the
amendment or repeal of laws and subordinate legislations. Drafting of legal
advice and opinions in relation to legislations and regulations. Manage the
legislative review process in collaboration with the State Law Advisers. Edit and
certify legislations in collaboration with the State Law Advisers Office. Render
legal support services in respect of litigation matters for and against the
Department. Furnish legal advice and opinions on litigation matters that affect
the Department. Perform generic management functions.
ENQUIRIES : Adv. Itumeleng Mosiapoa Tel No: (018) 388-5839
APPLICATIONS Use the correct E-mail: dedectapplications@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/260 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER SPECIALISED PRODUCTION: ADAPTATION
REF NO: 15/DEDECT/2025/NW
(12 Months contract)
SALARY : R498 816 per annum, (OSD Determination)
CENTRE : Head- Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade12) certificate plus four-(4) year’s degree in Environmental
Sciences (Natural/Physical/Environmental Sciences) Minimum of five (5)
years’ post-qualification experience in environmental management with a focus
on or experience in climate change. Valid driver’s license Competencies:
Sound knowledge of: Development and implementation of environmental
policies, legislation, strategies, action plans and standards; Provincial
strategies and implementation plans affecting climate change; Public service
delivery and Batho Pele principles; Environmental issues specifically with
climate change mitigation and adaptation measures. Relevant skills: Project
management, budgeting and financial management; Managerial and
supervisory abilities; Stakeholder engagement, Negotiation and conflict
management; Advanced written and verbal communication and report writing;
Computer literacy, including GIS and MS Office. Personal attributes:
conscientious, dedicated, innovative, organised and able to meet deadlines;
capable of working both independently and in a team.
DUTIES : Guide and co-ordinate elements of the development and implementation of
climate change policies, procedures, systems and guidelines with a specific
focus on adaptation. Support the development of legislated tools, policies,
procedures, systems and guidelines to guide decision-making in line with the
Climate Change Act 2024. Track progress on provincial climate change
responses and ensure targets in the North West Climate Change Response
Implementation Plan are met. Support the integration of climate change into
strategies and planning processes at provincial and local government levels.
170
Conduct and commission research to support climate change policy
development and decision-making. Participate in and support national,
provincial and local climate change forums and comment on related legislation,
policies and strategies. Support stakeholder consultations and capacity-
building sessions within provincial and local government; organise and deliver
workshops, seminars and presentations to government, business, civil society
and other stakeholders. Perform administrative duties including providing
inputs into monthly and quarterly reporting and contributing to planning and
evaluation processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tharina Boshoff at 079 511 2320
APPLICATIONS Use the correct E-mail: dedectapplications@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/261 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER SPECIALISED PRODUCTION: MITIGATION
REF NO: 16/DEDECT/2025/NW
(12 Months contract)
SALARY : R498 816 per annum, (OSD Determination)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) certificate plus four-year degree in Environmental Sciences
(Natural/Physical/Environmental Sciences). Minimum of five (5) years’ post-
qualification experience in environmental management with a focus on or
experience in climate change. Valid driver’s license. Competencies: Sound
knowledge of: Development and implementation of environmental policies,
legislation, strategies, action plans and standards; Provincial strategies and
implementation plans affecting climate change; Public service delivery and
Batho Pele principles; Environmental issues specifically with climate change
mitigation and adaptation measures. Relevant skills: Project management,
budgeting and financial management; Managerial and supervisory abilities;
Stakeholder engagement, Negotiation and conflict management; Advanced
written and verbal communication and report writing; Computer literacy,
including GIS and MS Office. Personal attributes: conscientious, dedicated,
innovative, organised and able to meet deadlines; capable of working both
independently and in a team.
DUTIES : Guide and co-ordinate elements of the development and implementation of
climate change policies, procedures, systems and guidelines with a specific
focus on mitigation (energy efficiency, renewable and cleaner technologies).
Support the development of legislated tools, policies, procedures, systems and
guidelines to guide decision-making in line with the Climate Change Act 2024.
Track progress on provincial climate change responses and ensure targets in
the North West Climate Change Response Implementation Plan are met.
Support the integration of climate change into strategies and planning
processes at provincial and local government levels. Conduct and commission
research to support climate change policy development and decision-making.
Participate in and support national, provincial and local climate change forums
and comment on related legislation, policies and strategies. Support
stakeholder consultations and capacity-building sessions within provincial and
local government; organise and deliver workshops, seminars and
presentations to government, business, civil society and other stakeholders.
Perform administrative duties including providing inputs into monthly and
quarterly reporting and contributing to planning and evaluation processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tharina Boshoff at 079 511 2320
APPLICATIONS Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT8-10@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/262 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL CONTROL REF NO:
17/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus minimum of three (3) years auditing
appropriate tertiary qualification (NQF level 6) or equivalent, a minimum of two
(2) years’ applicable experience to the relevant field of which 2 years must be
at supervisory level. Competency: Auditing experience with completed articles
will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of PFMA, Knowledge of treasury regulations, Knowledge of public
services regulations, Knowledge of supply chain management framework
policy and any latest developments in this area. Good communication skills,
computer skills, writing skills, accounting skills and auditing skills.
171
DUTIES : Development and monitoring the implementation of standard operating
procedures, policies, and administrative controls to ensure compliance. Identify
potential strategic and operational risks in the financial management
environment, recommend, and implement mitigation strategies. Manage
processes to detect, prevent and report losses, fruitless, wasteful, and irregular
expenditure. Coordination of internal and external audits in the office Monitor
the implementation of improvement plans. Management of fraud and loss
factors. Manage the retention of financial records.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Oduetse Diutlwileng Tel No: (018) 388 5927
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT8-10@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/263 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR YOUTH ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT REF NO:
18/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus minimum of three (3)-years appropriate
qualification (NQF Level 6) in Business Management / Business Administration
/ Commerce or equivalent. Minimum of two (2) years’ related experience.
Experience in civic organization or non-profit organization in youth advocacy.
A valid driver’s license. Competencies: Broad Knowledge and understanding
of Youth Development, Macroeconomic Policies, Fiscal Policies and Public
Policies. Good knowledge of the NWPG Developmental Priorities. Knowledge
and understanding of Provincial Economic Development strategies and
initiatives. Knowledge of National Economic Development policies and
strategies. General knowledge of policy development and management.
Knowledge and an understanding of the public sector environment. Broad
knowledge of the programmes and activities of the Department, knowledge of
socio-economic conditions that exist within the Economic Development field
with particular emphasis to youth in business economic empowerment,
Preferential Procurement Regulations and Youth Sector in general.
Understanding of Dynamics of Youth development in NW Province, Youth
Enterprise Strategy, Provincial Youth Economic. Developmental Priorities of
Northwest. Sound Knowledge and understanding of the regulatory framework
for the Public Service e.g. Public Service Act, PFMA, Treasury Regulations,
Constitution of Bid Committees and contracts, Public Service Regulations,
Labour Relations Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, Skills Development Act, Service Delivery Frameworks,
policies and strategies. Ability to interpret and apply policies, advanced
knowledge and application of general management and project management
principles. Knowledge of the Constitution of South Africa, Public Service
systems, Public Service Code of Conduct. Candidates should demonstrate
excellent Skills in: Programme management, business planning, business
analysis, financial management, strategic management, programme
management and project management principles. Ability to transfer skills and
knowledge and offer appropriate advice. Communication skills: Verbal and
written (Setswana and English proficiency). Stakeholder’s liaison skills.
Management skills, research skills, presentation skills, interpretation of
Statutes. Computer literacy. Language skills. Financial management skills.
Time management skills. Ability to work under pressure. Flexibility to work long
and extra hours. Skills: Project management skills. Good interpersonal skills,
diversity management skills. Economic Transformation. Change leadership.
Transformation. Knowledge of events management particularly Youth
programmes.
DUTIES : Coordinate Youth in Business Economic Empowerment strategies funding and
programmes in the province. Promote and facilitate Youth enterprise
development through implementing and supporting Youth entrepreneurial
projects. Coordinate and facilitate Youth Enterprise Skills development and
employment initiatives. Develop policies, strategies and programmes aimed at
improving service delivery for youth enterprises. Represent the Department in
Provincial and National Youth Development and Advocacy initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Carol Rasego Tel No: (018) 388 6054
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT1-7@nwpg.gov.za
172
POST 39/264 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LIQOUR ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
19/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus minimum of three (3) year (NQF 6)
qualification or equivalent in Policing/Public Administration/Business
Administration/Management or related field. A minimum of two (2) years’
experience in the regulatory environment/ liquor related or law enforcement
field. A valid driver’s license. Competencies: Knowledge of government
policies, Good Administration and Organizational skills. Accuracy and attention
to details. Good verbal and written communication skills. Good interpersonal
and customer relation skills. Highly motivated analytical individual who has the
ability to work independently. Ability to work in a team, long hours and under
pressure. Report writing skills. Broad Knowledge and understanding of PFMA,
PAJA, PAIA, POPIA, National and Provincial Liquor legislation.
DUTIES : Manage the overall administration pertaining to applications of liquor licenses
and ensure implementation of liquor legislation and policies, including
supervision of staff. Ensuring all applications are received, recorded and
verified. Monitor liquor application system and generate reports. Ensure all
applications are forwarded to the board for adjudication. Ensure that all
outcomes are communicated. Compile a database for all liquor traders, ensure
and supervise liquor renewals and revenue services. Compile monthly and
quarterly reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Khumo Taoana Tel No: (018) 388 5959
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT8-10@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/265 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT REF NO:
20/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus minimum of three-year (3) (NQF 6)
qualification in Policing/Public Administration/Business Administration/
Management or equivalent. Accredited Peace Officer certification. A two (2)
year experience in regulatory environment and experience in liquor-related
field will be an added advantage. A valid driver’s license. Competencies: Highly
motivated individual who has the ability to work independently. Good verbal
and written communication skills. Computer literacy. Understanding of
government policies. Ability to work in a team and under pressure. Extensive
knowledge of liquor legislation, in particular National and Provincial liquor Act.
Organizational, planning and management skills. Ability to act with integrity.
Excellent interpersonal and customer relations. Must be conversant with
government prescripts. i.e PFMA and Code of Conduct for Public Service.
Ability to work in a team, long hours and under pressure. Report writing skills.
Broad Knowledge and understanding of PFMA, PAJA, PAIA, POPIA.
DUTIES : Manage the compliance and enforcement sub unit, ensure the Conducting of
routine and joint compliance inspections on both National and Provincial Liquor
legislations to ensure compliance with the Liquor related legislation. Conduct
raids operations on both licenced and unlicensed outlets as and when required.
Consolidate weekly, monthly and quarterly reports. Consolidate provincial
liquor outlets database. Manage the team to curb non-compliance. Ensure that
initial and final inspections are conducted. Liaise with relevant stakeholders.
Conduct inspections/ investigations in loco on behalf of the board and compile
a comprehensive report. Facilitate, execute warrant of arrest and testifying in
a court of law.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Khumo Taoana Tel No: (018) 388 5959
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT8-10@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/266 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ECONOMIC SECTOR DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
21/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus minimum of three-year (3) (NQF 6)
qualification in the field of Economic Sector Development / Finance or
equivalent. Experience in economic development / project management will be
173
an added advantage. A minimum of three (3) years’ work experience in
economic development-related field. A valid driver’s license. Competencies:
Broad knowledge and understanding of South African economic policy,
strategy and legislation applicable to economic development. Knowledge of the
North West Economy. Knowledge of national and provincial economic
development policies and strategies. Skills and Knowledge: Economic analysis
skills. Ability to interpret and apply policy. Basic research skills. Report writing
skills. Presentation skills. Application of project management principles to
development planning. Good verbal/written communication skills. Innovative
thinker. Ability to work in a team.
DUTIES : Identify needed interventions in provincial priority sectors (mining,
manufacturing, agro-processing, tourism, alternative energy). Drafting of
guidelines for the implementation of policies and strategies for sector
development. Coordinate the piloting of sector development programmes.
Coordinate the implementation of programmes to promote industrial
development. Liaise with all spheres of government and all stakeholders on
economic sector initiatives. Facilitate and coordinate economic sector
development activities to support sector development. Evaluate the
implementation of priority sector strategies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Wellington Molokele Tel No: (018) 388 5833
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT8-10@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/267 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TRADE AND INVESTMENT PROMOTION REF
NO: 22/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus minimum of three-year (3) (NQF 6)
qualification in the field of Economic Trade Development / Finance or
equivalent. Knowledge in the field of economic development, export and
investment promotion. A minimum of two (2) years’ work experience in
economic development-related field. A valid driver’s license. Competencies:
Broad knowledge and understanding of South African economic policy,
strategy and legislation applicable to economic development. Knowledge of the
North West Economy. Knowledge of national and provincial economic
development policies and strategies. Skills and Knowledge: Economic
analysis skills. Ability to interpret and apply policy. Basic research skills. Report
writing skills. Presentation skills. Application of project management principles
to development planning. Good verbal/written communication skills. Innovative
thinker. Ability to work in a team.
DUTIES : Provide support in the development and the implementation of export,
investment promotion initiatives. Identify investment opportunities, scoping and
packaging of investment projects. Profiling of investment projects. Provide
support in identification, development and implementation of export trade and
investment promotion initiatives. Liaise with all spheres of government and all
stakeholders on trade and investment related initiatives. Facilitate and
coordinate trade and commerce activities to support industry development.
Evaluate the implementation of trade and investment strategies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Wellington Molokele Tel No: (018) 388 5833
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT8-10@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/268 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: GRAPHIC DESIGNER REF NO:
23/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mafikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus minimum of three-year (3) (NQF 6)
qualification in Graphic Design or equivalent. Two (2) years’ relevant
experience. Must be proficient in the use of an Apple Macintosh computer. Must
be proficient in Adobe Illustrator, Photoshop and In Design (web and 3-D skills
will be an added advantage). Must have ability to develop basic animation.
Must have the ability to develop creative and innovative design concepts.
Ability to develop work from concept through to final product. Strong design
skills and thorough knowledge of designing for different platforms including
digital and social media. Good organisational and communication skills. The
incumbent must have the ability to work paced environment. Should be highly
motivated with an eye for detail.
174
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for collaborating with the internal
communications manager on the overall look and feel for all design products
and working as a graphic designer on various products as per brief.
Conceptualising and handling visual execution of all design briefs. Handling
creative jobs from concept through to print. Providing comprehensive briefs to
photographers. Liaising with internal programmes, production houses, and
advertisers and printing companies on production. Assisting with the
management and development of the departmental corporate identity.
Assisting with the management and mentoring of junior personnel in the unit.
ENQUIRIE : Mr. Zia Cassim Tel No: (018) 388 5999
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT8-10@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/269 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING REF NO:
24/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus minimum of three-year (3) NQF 6)
qualification in Public Administration/Business Administration/Public
Management or equivalent. Minimum of two (2) years relevant experience.
Valid Driver’s License. Job knowledge and skills: Knowledge of Government
Legislative Frameworks and Strategic Planning. Knowledge of compilation,
monitoring and evaluation of Strategic Plan, Operational Plan, Annual
Performance Plan etc. Comprehensive knowledge and understanding of
prescripts and processes applicable within the public service like Public
Financial Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of
Policy Development & Implementation. Knowledge of Risk Management
Strategies. Project Management, Presentation skills, Report writing and
Analytical skills, Analytical skills, Communication and Interpersonal Relations
skills.
DUTIES : Expedite the coordination and development of the Strat Plan. Facilitate and
coordinates the development of the departmental Annual Performance Plan.
Facilitate the coordination of the review of the departmental strategic planning.
Facilitate the development and implementation of operational plans (MSTF).
Review the departmental Monitoring and evaluation framework. Manage
human and financial resource of the directorate.
ENQUIRES : Ms. Mavis Nels Tel No: (018) 388 2431
Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT8-10@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/270 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR LOCAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
25/DEDECT2025/NW
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus minimum of three-year (3) (NQF 6)
qualification in Business Management / Business Administration / Commerce
or equivalent. Minimum of two (2) years’ relevant experience in Economic
Empowerment field / Business Management environment / Corporate or Public
Sector Military Veterans Economic Development Support. A valid driver’s
license. Competencies: Broad Knowledge and understanding of Youth
Development, Macroeconomic Policies, Fiscal Policies and Public Policies.
Good knowledge of the NWPG Developmental Priorities. Knowledge and
understanding of Provincial Economic Development strategies and initiatives.
Knowledge of National Economic Development policies and strategies.
General knowledge of policy development and management. Knowledge and
an understanding of the public sector environment. Broad knowledge of the
programmes and activities of the Department, knowledge of socio-economic
conditions that exist with the Economic Development field with particular
emphasis to Military Veterans in business economic empowerment,
Preferential Procurement Regulations and Military Veterans Sector in general.
Understanding of Dynamics of military development in NW Province, Military
Veterans business empowerment programme. Developmental Priorities of
Northwest. Sound Knowledge and understanding of the regulatory framework
for the Public Service e.g. Public Service Act, PFMA, Treasury Regulations,
Constitution of Bid Committees and contracts, Public Service Regulations,
Labour Relations Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, Skills Development Act, Service Delivery Frameworks,
175
policies and strategies. Ability to interpret and apply policies, advanced
knowledge and application of general management and project management
principles. Knowledge of the Constitution of South Africa, Public Service
systems, Public Service Code of Conduct. Candidates should demonstrate
excellent Skills in: Programme management, business planning, business
analysis, financial management, strategic management, programme
management and project management principles. Ability to transfer skills and
knowledge, and offer appropriate advice. Communication skills: Verbal and
written (Setswana and English proficiency). Stakeholder’s liaison skills.
Management skills, research skills, presentation skills, interpretation of
Statutes. Computer literacy. Language skills. Financial management skills.
Time management skills. Ability to work under pressure. Flexibility to work long
and extra hours. Skills: Project management skills. Good interpersonal skills,
diversity management skills. Economic Transformation. Change leadership.
Transformation. Knowledge of events management particularly empowerment
programs.
DUTIES : Coordinate Military Veterans in business Economic Empowerment strategies
funding and programmes in the province. Promote and facilitate Military
Veterans enterprise development through implementing and supporting Youth
entrepreneurial projects. Coordinate and facilitate Youth Enterprise Skills
development and employment initiatives. Develop policies, strategies and
programmes aimed at improving service delivery for youth enterprises.
Represent the Department in Provincial and National Youth Development and
Advocacy initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S. Maxhegwana Tel No: (018) 388 - 6054
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT8-10@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/271 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: LIQUOR ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
30/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus minimum of three-year (3) (NQF 6)
qualification in Business Administration/ Management /Public Administration or
equivalent. Minimum of one (1) to two (2) year experience in the regulatory
environment. Experience in the liquor related field or law enforcement field will
be an added advantage. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies: Good verbal and
written communication skills. Planning, organization and Presentation skills.
Computer literacy and research skills. Understanding of Government policies.
Good interpersonal and customer relations skills. Ability to work in a team, long
hours and under pressure. Report writing skills. Knowledge and understanding
of the National Liquor Act and Regulations, PFMA and Code of Conduct for
Public Service.
DUTIES : Ensure verification of applications for board adjudication. Ensuring all
applications are received, recorded and verified. Ensure all applications are
forwarded to the board for adjudication. Issue approved liquor licenses and
certificates. Ensure that all outcomes are communicated. Capture payments
on the system, Identify and change status of lapsed licenses, update
particulars on approved transfers and removal of licenses. Compile database
of all active and lapsed liquor outlets. Supervision of all administration staff.
Compile weekly, monthly and quarterly reports. Attend to client enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Khumo Taoana Tel No: (018) 388 5959
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT8-10@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/272 : CONSUMER EDUCATION AND RESEARCH OFFICER REF NO:
31/DEDECT/2025/NW (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Klerksdorp / Brits
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus minimum of three-year (3) (NQF 6)
qualification in Education / Communication / Public Administration or
equivalent. One (1) to two (2) years experience in regulatory environment. A
valid driver’s license. Competencies: Good verbal and written communication
skills. Presentation skills. Computer literacy and research skills. Understanding
of Government policies. Good interpersonal and customer relations skills.
Ability to work in a team and under pressure. Report writing skills. Broad
176
knowledge of the Consumer protection legislation in particular Consumer
Protection Act and National Credit Act.
DUTIES : Disseminate information on consumer related matters by organizing and
conducting education awareness programmes through road
Shows/exhibitions; workshops and campaigns. Promote media literacy through
media talk shows. Provide print and electronic communications to media.
Continuously update consumer information brochures. Conduct research on
consumer behaviour or other related matters. Work with other regulatory
bodies on their consumer education initiatives. Partake in inter provincial
activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Shale Masetloa Tel No: (018) 388 5844
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT8-10@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/273 : CONSUMER INVESTIGATING OFFICER REF NO: 32/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus minimum of three-year (3) (NQF 6)
qualification in Para-Legal studies or LLB/ Bachelor of Commerce in Law. One
(1) to two (2) years’ experience in regulatory environment. Experience of
consumer-related issues will be an added advantage. A valid driver’s license.
Competencies: Ability to interpret and apply policies and guidelines, preferably
in consumer legislative framework. Highly motivated individual who has the
ability to work independently. Good verbal and written communication skills.
Computer literacy and research skills. Understanding of government policies.
Good interpersonal and customers skills. Ability to work in a team and under
pressure. Broad knowledge of the Consumer protection legislation, in particular
Consumer Protection Act. Organizational, planning and management skills.
DUTIES : Assess complaints objectively. Evaluate the facts to establish whether there is
a just cause consumer complaint. Conduct investigation/inquiries on consumer
complaints. Conduct business compliance inspections. Mediate between
consumers and businesses. Liaise with other regulators within consumer
protection space. Conduct research on consumer issues. Give legal advice on
consumer related issues and interpret contracts and other legal documents.
Liaise with other stakeholders on consumer advocacy matters. Keep and
maintain file records of consumer complaints.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. William Mpempe Tel No: (053) 928 0382
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT8-10@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/274 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: HRD REF NO:
33/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent, plus three (3) years National
Diploma/Degree (NQF 6/7) in Human Resource Development/Management.
Two (2) years’ experience in Training and Development (HRD) or public
service. Knowledge: Knowledge in PERSAL administration. Sound knowledge
of Skills Development and Public Service Legislations and Frameworks. Skills:
Computer Skills (MS Word, Excel and Power Point). Proven skills in respect of
data Analysis and Reporting Writing, Good Communications Skills (verbal and
writing), Presentation Skills, training Coordination, budgeting and financial
management skills. Ability to interpret directives and to work under pressure.
Ability to work with a team and independently and maintain confidentiality. Valid
Driver License and willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Facilitate the development and effect implementation of Workplace Skills Plan
and the Departmental Training Plan. Coordinate departmental training
programmes. Coordinate departmental Internship Programmes like Work
Integrated Learning, Learnership, and also the establishment of Mentorship
Programme. Conduct workshops, departmental and orientation programmes.
Implement and facilitate Compulsory Induction Programmes to the new
entrants to the Public Service. Administer departmental fulltime and part-time
bursaries, coordinate Adult Education and Training (AET) and National
Certificate Vocational (NCV) programmes. To align and be aware with the
Department of Public Service Administration prescripts. Maintain training
Database and record keeping in the PERSAL system. Compile Monthly,
Quarterly and Annual Training Reports. Handle internal and external enquiries
177
related to skills development. Serve as scriber at the Skills Development
Committee Meetings.
ENQUIRY : Ms Ipeleng Letsholo Tel No: (018) 388 5905
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT8-10@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/275 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: SALARIES REF NO: 34/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) certificate or equivalent plus appropriate recognized three-
year National Diploma (NQF 6) in Financial Accounting. One (1) to two (2)
years relevant experience in financial management or related field. PERSAL
Salary Administration certificate. Competencies/Knowledge/Skills: Must have
extensive knowledge of DORA, PFMA and Treasury Regulations. PERSAL
system, Public Service Act and Performance Management Development
System. Good communication skills. Interpersonal relations. Computer skills.
Advance Microsoft excel and knowledge of BAS system will be added as
advantage. Creative and innovative.
DUTIES : Provide administration of salaries. Approved deductions and EPWP stipends,
and allowances for both permanent and temporary officials on PERSAL
system. Monitor that all payroll reports are issued and returned on time.
Capturing of IRP5 accumulations on PERSAL system and monthly manual tax
deductions to be paid over to SARS at the end of each month (if applicable).
Submission of EMP201 to SARS via e-filing before due date. Ensure that all
salary related records/documents are safely kept in the storeroom.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Benjamin Kgabi Tel No: (018) 388-5938
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT8-10@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/276 : SENIOR TRADE ADVISOR REF NO: 35/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus a recognised minimum National Diploma
(NQF 6) in Business Management or equivalent. One (1) to Two (2) years
practical work experience. A valid driver’s licence. Competencies: Knowledge
of the relevant statutory framework in the Public Service and other
empowerment prescripts. The incumbent needs excellent computer literacy,
competent analysis, communication, conflict resolution, problem-solving and
interpersonal skills. Good knowledge of the NWPG Developmental Priorities.
Knowledge of National Economic Development policies and strategies.
Knowledge and an understanding of the public sector environment.
Developmental Priorities of Northwest.
DUTIES : Facilitating entrepreneurs and economic empowerment planning and initiative,
identifying and fostering entrepreneurs economic empowerment opportunities:
facilitating and securing funding for economic empowerment activities and
programmes; assisting local organisation, business and individual with
establishing economic empowerment plans and project; and promoting
entrepreneurship in order to expand economic development opportunities ;
facilitation of access to market through ensuring the activity participation of
enterprises in the international, national , provincial and regional and local
exhibition. Facilitation of education, training and development opportunities in
order to empower enterprises including establishment of incubation
programmes and linkage to various trade and investment opportunities. Assist
entrepreneurs to gain access to funding in order to establish and expand their
enterprises. Facilitation of product development for enterprises.
ENQUIRIES : Mr.Samkele Maxhengwana Tel No: (018) 388-6005
APPLICATIONHS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT8-10@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/277 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A: CLIMATE CHANGE
REF NO: 26/DEDECT/2025/NW
(12 Months contract)
SALARY : R343 842 per annum, (OSD Determination)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) certificate plus Post-Graduate Degree (eg Climate Change
Related, Environmental Management, Environmental Education,
Environmental Law; Natural sciences; Planning). Valid driver’s license.
178
Competencies: Knowledge of: Development and/or implementation of
environmental policies, legislation, strategies, action plans and standards;
Provincial strategies and implementation plans affecting climate change; Public
service delivery and Batho Pele principles; General awareness of
environmental issues. Relevant skills: Written and Administrative skills (Report
writing and Minute taking); Verbal communication skills and Computer literacy.
Personal attributes: conscientious, dedicated, innovative, organised and able
to meet deadlines; capable of working both independently and in a team.
DUTIES : Support elements of the development and implementation of climate change
policies, procedures, systems and guidelines in line with the Climate Change
Act 2024. Support tracking of progress on provincial climate change responses
and ensure targets in the North West Climate Change Response
Implementation Plan. Support the integration of climate change into strategies
and planning processes at provincial and local government levels. Participate
in research to support climate change policy development and decision-
making. Serve as the Secretariat of the North West Provincial Climate Change
Forum, including taking of minutes, distribution of documents and related
logistical arrangements as required. Participate in relevant provincial, local and
national climate change fora. Comment on legislation, policy and strategy
relevant to the function and to integrate climate change principles within them.
Support stakeholder consultations and capacity-building sessions within
provincial and local government; Organise climate change workshops,
seminars, conferences and meetings as required. Perform administrative
duties including providing inputs into monthly and quarterly reporting and
contributing to planning and evaluation processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tharina Boshoff at 079 511 2320
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT8-10@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/278 : BIODIVERSITY OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A - C (DAMAGE
CAUSING ANIMALS) REF NO: 27/DEDECT/2025/NW (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R343 842 – R586 665 per annum, (OSD Determination)
CENTRE : Mahikeng and Vryburg
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus B-Tech /B.Sc. in Natural Conservation or
Natural Sciences /M.Sc./MTech will be an advantage. Minimum of 5 years’
experience in problem animal management. A valid drivers’ license.
Competencies: Provide evidence (written with contract references and
pictures) of shooting big 5 animals. Extensive experience in working with
primates, reptiles and mammals especially large predators, hippo and rest of
big five. Qualified professional hunter with big exemption. SAPS competency
(rifle, shotgun, handgun and hand carbine) Computer literacy. A good
understanding of statistics and ecological processes. Ability to work outdoors
under various conditions. Be prepared to travel extensively and work long
hours away from home. Be able to use scientific rules and methods to solve
problems. Critical and innovative thinking and active listening skills. Basic
understanding of geographical information systems.
DUTIES : Conduct problems animal based inspections on IUCN red data listed species
and other within the province. Capture and relocate of IUCN Red Data listed
species and other problem animals provincially. Biodiversity monitoring and
data collection. Cites evaluations and recommendations, contribute to
provincial biodiversity inventory (data collection, quarterly, analysis and
interpretation). Prepare monthly, quarterly and annual reports. Prepare or
participate in scientific and non-scientific articles and presentations. Represent
the department on provincial and national committees, forums and working
groups as requires. Have a proper background with regard to species and
ecosystem management. Good understanding of conservation biology
principles. Apply principles of NEMA in new Biodiversity and protected area
Acts. Drafting of policies and other legislation as requires in this field.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Willem Boshoff Tel No: (018) 389 5204
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT8-10@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/279 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION: GRADE A - C (REPORTING)
REF NO: 28/DEDECT2025/NW
SALARY : R343 842 - R586 665 per annum, (OSD Determination)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
179
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus 4 year degree (or equivalent qualification)
majoring in the field of Environmental Management or Information
Management. Minimum of two (2) years’ experience in environmental
management or information management. Valid driver’s license.
Competencies: Knowledge on environmental indicators. Sound knowledge of
South African Environmental Legislation, Policies, Protocols and Interventions.
Advanced computer literacy in MS Office (MS Word, MS Excel, and MS
Outlook). Preferable experience in use of GIS software. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Database management. Data processing and
interpretation skills, analytical skills and report writing skills.
DUTIES : The consolidation of required statutory reports within Environmental Services
Programme Contribute toward the Compilation, maintenance, expansion and
update of the Provincial Environment Outlook Support the state of environment
reporting at local level. Support the development and reporting on relevant
Environmental Indicators. Provide support to the functioning of the Integrated
Environmental Information Management System of the Environmental
Services Programme. To perform administrative duties related to the post and
assist with budget inputs.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Tharina Boshoff at 079 511 2320
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT8-10@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/280 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A – C DEVELOPMENT
IMPACT MANAGEMENT UNIT REF NO: 29/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R343 842 – R586 665 per annum, (OSD Determination)
CENTRE : Rustenburg
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus 3 Year Degree/ 3 Year Diploma in
Environmental Management/ Science or Natural Science or equivalent.
Minimum of 1 year relevant experience. Competency: Knowledge &
understanding of National Environmental Management Act (NEMA) and its
related EIA Regulations. Basic Knowledge of wide range of environmental
legislation such as National Environmental Management: Waste Act, and
National Water Act. Job Knowledge And Skills: Basic knowledge of
environmental issues and GIS as added advantage, computer literacy, report-
writing skills and evaluation skills. Interpretation of legislation, good
communication skills (verbal and written), ability to work under pressure, time
conscious, team work, dedicated and trustworthy. It is compulsory have driver’s
license.
DUTIES : To consider and evaluate Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and other
environment related documents in the Bojanala Platinum District
Municipalities. Evaluate applications for Environmental Authorization that is,
Basic Assessment Reports, Scoping (SR) and Environmental Impact
Assessment Reports (EIAR), S24 G Application Reports, application for
Environmental Authorization Amendments, and undertake site inspection, in
reaching legally defensible decision within operational plan timeframe. Provide
information and procedural advise relating to environmental impact
management, by reviewing documents and provide comments on applications
related to EIA, such as, Business Rights/Subdivision, Basic Assessment
Report/Environmental Management Programmes and Scoping
Report/Environmental Impact Assessment Report received from other
competent authorities/ sectors, and evaluation of EIA related queries. To
evaluate and investigate the impact of other forms of development, through
Implementation of Integrated Environmental Management (IEM) tools such as
Environmental Management Framework (EMF) and Strategic Development
Framework (SDF). Capture the application information into the NEAS (National
Environmental Authorization System). Perform administrative and related
functions. Prepare the applications status quo, update investigation diaries and
site inspection reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Gasewabone Ellis Nkau at 082 805 9591
APPLICATIONS Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT8-10@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/281 : SENIOR COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER: MEDIA LIAISON REF NO:
35/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office - Mahikeng
180
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate plus a minimum appropriate recognised three-
year (3) (NQF 6) qualification in Communication, Journalism, or equivalent.
Practical and relevant experience in external communication with a strong
media focus; a minimum of one (1) to two (2) years of experience in similar
environment. Competency/Skills: Must have excellent writing skills and an
impeccable command of the English language; Good understanding of South
African media; Must have sound inter-personal relations, negotiation skills and
ability to communicate with stakeholders at all levels; Knowledge and skills in
formulating and writing reports is essential; The successful candidate must also
be computer literate (packages such as Microsoft, Excel, Power-Point, MS
Word, E-mail, Internet); The applicant must be able to plan, organize, meet
deadlines and work under pressure; Drivers licence is requirement; Must be
willing and able to drive, to travel and work long hours including weekends and
public holidays; Must be able to work well in a team; Financial, stakeholder and
project management knowledge and experience is required.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will provide a media liaison function for the
Department inclusive of, but not restricted to, daily media monitoring,
Facilitating responses to media queries, arranging media briefings, providing
media support to the Department at events; Assisting with updating media
databases Drafting media plans and media exit reports, Drafting monthly
reports; Assisting with the media audio clip function and other related media
innovation services; Render a media writing function – this includes, but is not
restricted to, the writing of media invitations, media statements, media
articles/advertorials; Employ innovation in media communication to heighten
the overall objective of raising awareness of Departmental issues, events and
projects; Provision of general communication support inclusive of branding/
campaigns. Able to execute any other administrative or functions given by
Assistant Director.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Baabua Thukubi Tel No: (018) 388-5848
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT1-7@nwpg.gov.za
NOTE : NB: Applicants will be required to conduct exercise to demonstrate their writing
skills.
POST 39/282 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCE ADMINISTRATION
REF NO: 36/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate and minimum three-year (3) NQF 6) appropriate
Tertiary qualification in Human Resource Management or equivalent. One (1)
to two (2) years’ experience in Human Resource Management and Public
Administration. Introduction to PERSAL Certificate. Competency: Knowledge
of the PERSAL System administration. Competencies: Computer literary in MS
Word, MS Excel and PowerPoint. Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations and Prescripts and Government Employees Pension Law,
Training on PERSAL system, Knowledge of basic principles of HR
Management, Knowledge of Performance Management System. Ability to
interpret and apply policies, acts, ability to comprehend Human Resource
issues. Interpersonal relations, innovation and communication skills.
DUTIES : Implement Recruitment, Selection and Appointments: Receive and
acknowledge applications, Profile applications, provide Secretarial services
and render advice during the Selection process, Administer transport claims of
Interview candidates, prepare Short-listing and Interviews reports and
appointment letters, Process personnel suitability checks. Process
appointments and promotions on the PERSAL System. Provision of Conditions
of Service and Remuneration: Capture leave applications on the PERSAL
system, Process recognition of Long Services, Grade progressions, Acting and
Role playing allowances. Administer service terminations, Circulate Assets and
State liability forms, and conduct Exit interviews. Compile pension withdrawal
forms on GEPF on-line system, process Funeral claim benefits and capture
Nomination of Beneficiaries, Capture and update applications for Housing
Allowance Scheme, Update Employees’ Educational qualifications. Process
Transfers, Relocations and Movements on the PERSAL system. Perform any
other HR-related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tiragalo Kepadisa Tel No: (018) 388-5876
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT1-7@nwpg.gov.za
181
POST 39/283 : HR CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: 37/DEDECT/2025/NW (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) Certificate. PERSAL training Certificates. Two (2) years’
experience in Human Resource Administration. Competencies: Knowledge of
the PERSAL System, Computer literacy in MS Word, MS Excel and
PowerPoint. Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations and
Prescripts and Government Employees Pension Law. Training on PERSAL
system. Knowledge of basic principles of Human Resource Management.
Knowledge Resource issues. Interpersonal relations, innovation and
communication skills.
DUTIES : Implement Recruitment, Selection and Appointments. Receive and
acknowledge applications. Profile applications, provide Secretarial services
and render advice during the Selection process. Administer transport claims of
interview candidates, prepare short listing and interviews report and
appointment letters, process personnel suitability checks. Process
appointment and promotions on the PERSAL System. Provision of Conditions
of Service and Remuneration: Capture leave applications on the PERSAL
System. Process recognition of Long Services. Grade progressions. Acting and
Role-playing allowances. Administer service terminations. Circulate Assets and
State liability forms, and conduct Exit interviews. Compile pension withdrawal
forms on GEPF on-line system. Process funeral claim benefits, capture
nomination of beneficiaries. Capture and update applications for Housing
Allowance Scheme. Update Employees’ Educational qualifications. Process
Transfers, Relocations and Movements on the PERSAL system. Supervise
human resources/staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tiragalo Kepadisa Tel No: (018) 388- 5876
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT1-7@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/284 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT TO THE HEAD OF DEPARTMENT (HOD) REF NO:
38/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) National Diploma (NQF 6) in Office Management / Office
Administration / Management Assistant / Project Management or equivalent.
One (1) to two (2) years of relevant experience. Computer literacy. Candidates
must be prepared to travel and work long hours. A valid driver’s license.
Competencies: Good knowledge of Project Management. Effective Telephone
etiquette. Good customer approach and understanding cultural diversity. Ability
to prioritize workloads. Excellent written and verbal communication skills
across all levels. Ability to work independently. Ability to establish and maintain
effective working relationship with individuals from diverse backgrounds. High
ethical standards. Ability to confidentially interact with stakeholders at all levels
within and outside the Department. Ability to do evaluate and analyse
documents and situations. Knowledge on the relevant
legislation/policies/prescriptions and procedures. Basic knowledge on financial
administration. Proactive, trustworthy and high output-driven individual.
DUTIES : Render Administrative and Secretarial support services in the Head of
Department’s Office. Manage the Head of Department’s diary and schedule
appointments. Co-ordinate and organise travel arrangements and
accommodation bookings. Prepare and organise meetings, including agenda
and documents. Handle correspondence and communicate on behalf of the
Head of Department. Prioritise and manage multiple tasks efficiently. Handle
the budget, invoices and make payments. Take and write minutes, prepare
presentations, and manage ad-hoc projects. Read, monitor and respond to the
Head of Department’s e-mailed messages. Answer telephone calls and liaise
with clients competently.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Tsitsi Molokele Tel No: (018) 388- 1179
Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT1-7@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/285 : PLANNER: STRATEGIC PLANNING REF NO: 39/DEDECT/2025/ NW
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mafikeng
182
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) plus a minimum of three-year (3) (NQF 6) relevant
qualification in Public Administration/Business Administration/Public
Management. Minimum one (1) to two (2) years relevant experience in
Strategic Planning. A valid driver’s license. Competencies: Knowledge of
Government Legislative Frameworks and Strategic Planning. Ensuring
alignment of Strategic Plan, Annual Performance Plan and Operational Plan.
Computer literacy. Excellent communication, analytical and report writing skills.
Project management skills. Sound knowledge of the government planning and
reporting processes as well as various public service legal prescripts. Strong
communication (verbal and written) skills.
DUTIES : Assist with the development of the Departmental Strategic and Annual
Performance Planning processes. Assist with implementation of the
Department’s Operational Plan, Implement planning Instruments and tools on
planning process.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mavis Nels Tel No: (018) 388 2431
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT1-7@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/286 : PLANNER: MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF NO:
40/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mafikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) plus a minimum of three-year (3) (NQF 6) relevant
qualification in Public Administration/Business Administration/Public
Management. Minimum one (1) to two (2) years relevant experience. A valid
driver’s license Competencies: Computer literacy. Excellent communication,
analytical and report writing skills. Project management skills. Sound
knowledge government planning and reporting processes as well as various
public service legal prescripts. Strong communication (verbal and written)
skills.
DUTIES : To consolidate quarterly performance reports for the department. To verify the
portfolio of evidence of quarterly performance reports from programme
managers. Assist in analyzing quarterly performance reports and prepare
presentations thereof assist in the compilation of the departmental annual
report Provide secretarial support to the department’s performance review
sessions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Kojo-Yeboah Asuamah Tel No: (018) 388 5838
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: Applicationsdedect1-7@Nwpg.Gov.Za
POST 39/287 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER HR PLANNING AND SYSTEMS REF NO:
41/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mafikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) certificate plus an appropriate (NQF 6) qualification in
Human Resource Management/Public Management or equivalent. PERSAL
training certificate. A minimum of one (1) to (2) years’ relevant working
experience in Human Resource Planning and Systems. A valid driver’s licence.
Competencies: Knowledge of HR Planning Prescripts; PFMA, Public Service
Regulation and Guideline on integrated Human Resource Planning in the
Public. Planning and organizing. Financial Management. Communication
Skills. Computer literacy skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate the development and reviewing of MTEF Human Resource Plan
and the Annual HRP Implementation report. Provide data analysis on the HRPs
for quality and compliance, and monitoring the implementation of HR Plans.
Conduct workforce analysis to identify current and future human resource
supply as well to future labour demand. Coordinate the development and
review of Employment Equity Plan. Coordinate the reviewing of the Human
Resource Planning Implementation. Coordinate the administration of the HR
Assessment. Maintain human resources and staff establishment information.
Maintain and update the HR records management system to ensure accuracy
and proper placement of staff. Maintain the Establishment Structure on the
PERSAL System.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Vanessa Verveen Tel No: (018) 388 4823
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT1-7@nwpg.gov.za
183
POST 39/288 : GRAPHIC DESIGNER REF NO: 42/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R269 499 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Mafikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate plus minimum of three-year (NQF 6) relevant qualification
in Graphic’s Design or equivalent. One (1) years relevant experience.
Competency: Knowledge and understanding of government prescripts. Must
be proficient in the use of an Apple Macintosh computer. Must be proficient in
Adobe Illustrator, Photoshop and InDesign (web and 3-D skills will be an added
advantage). Must have ability to develop basic animation. Must have the ability
to develop creative and innovative design concepts. Ability to develop work
from concept through to final product. Strong design skills and thorough
knowledge of designing for different platforms including digital and social
media. Good organisational and communication skills. Knowledge of website
design; co-ordinate with internal and external stakeholders on production
DUTIES : Executing and handling visual execution of all design briefs. Handling creative
jobs from concept through to print; Create graphics and layout of all forms of
digital and printed matter including comprehensive campaigns featuring
publications, booklets, brochures, newsletters, posters, flyers, logos as well as
supporting materials such as slides and presentations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tshepiso Matlhoko Tel No: (018) 388 6031
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mailApplicationsDEDECT1-7@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/289 : REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: 43/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) certificate or equivalent qualification or NQF 4.
Competencies: General knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as the
ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics, Knowledge
and understanding of the legislative frameworks governing the Public Service,
Knowledge of storage procedures in terms of the working environment. Ability
to interpret and apply policies, computer literacy, verbal and written
communication. Initiative and innovation, self- starter.
DUTIES : Ensure the smooth, efficient and effective flow of documents (receive and
distribute) between the office of the executive authority, the department and
other structures like cluster committees, external role players, etc. File all
documents in accordance with the relevant prescripts like the National Archives
Act and the MISS prescripts. Render a general support function in the office of
the executive authority. Control stocks and stationery as chief user clerk for the
Executive Authority’s office. Study the relevant Public Service and
departmental prescripts/policies and other documents and ensure that the
application thereof is understood properly. Operate office machines in relation
to the registry function. Process documents for archiving and / disposal.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Opelo Mochware Tel No: (018) (018) 388-5810
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT1-7@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/290 : SECRETARIES TO DIRECTORS REF NO: 44/DEDECT/2025/NW (X3
POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade 12) certificate or equivalent qualification or NQF level 4. General
knowledge in office administration / secretarial duties will be an added
advantage Computer literacy. Competencies: Good planning and
organisational skills. Good verbal and written communication skills. Language
skills. Good interpersonal relations and people skills. Experience in minute
taking. Experience in document management/filing. Knowledge of procedures
for receiving, responding to and managing requests/enquiries plus good
telephone etiquette.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the director Provide
administrative and clerical support service to director. Provide support services
to director regarding meetings by preparing reports and records of
decisions/minutes, communicating to relevant role players and follow up on
progress made. Support the director with administration of the directorate
budget. Ensure safekeeping of all documents in the office of the director in line
with relevant legislation and policies. Manage appointments/engagements and
184
other logistical arrangements related to the activities of the director. Manage
incoming and outgoing information of the office and ensure effective flow of
information and documents to and from the office. Handle procurement for
activities in the directorate. Obtain inputs, collate and compile progress and
management reports. Remain up to date with regard to prescripts/policies and
procedures applicable to work terrain to ensure efficient and effective support
to the director.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tiragalo Kepadisa Tel No: (018) 388 -5876
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT1-7@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/291 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERKS REF NO: 45/DEDECT/2025/NW (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Rustenburg, Mafikeng Head office, NMM District, Dr KK District and Dr RSM
District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or Matriculation certificate. Computer literacy. Competencies:
Knowledge of clerical duties, practices, as well as the ability to capture data
and obtaining and disseminating information. Knowledge of administration and
clerical procedures and system such as managing files and records.
Knowledge of procedures for receiving, responding and managing
requests/enquiries plus good telephone etiquette. Knowledge and
understanding of legislative framework that governs the Public service.
Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working environment. Good
organizational and interpersonal skills. Good verbal and written communication
skills. Language skills. Flexibility.
DUTIES : Rendering of general clerical support services. Record, organize, record,
capture and retrieve correspondences and data. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing register of the component. Handle routine enquiries.
Make photocopies. Distribute documents and/packages to various
stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filling system of the
component. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in relation to
procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete procurement
forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of office
stationery. Arrange travelling and accommodation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Tharina Boshoff at 079 511 2320 and Ms. Tsitsi Molokele Tel No: (018)
388-1179 Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT1-7@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/292 : DRIVER/MESSENGER REF NO: 46/DEDECT/2025/NW
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 and equivalent qualifications or NQF level 2. A valid Driver’s license.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of Public Service policies
and procedures. Ability to plan, manage time and to drive a vehicle with care.
Ability to uphold confidentiality and discipline requisite for the Office of the EA.
DUTIES : Collect and deliver confidential documents in the Office of the Executive
Authority. Transport employees in the office of the Executive Authority and
guests and special advisors of the Executive Authority. Render a general
support function in the office of the Executive Authority. Maintain knowledge on
the policies and procedures that applies in the work environment. Conduct
routine maintenance on the allocated vehicle and report defects timely.
Complete all required and prescribed records and books with regard to the
vehicle and goods handled.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Opelo Mochware Tel No: (018) 388-5810
APPLICATIONS Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT1-7@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/293 : CLEANERS REF NO: 47/DEDECT/2025/NW (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : ABET Certificate or equivalent Good communication skills. Have an ability to
work under pressure. People orientated.
DUTIES : Provision of cleaning services. Cleaning of offices, corridors, elevators and
boardrooms, dusting and waxing office furniture. Sweeping, scrubbing and
waxing of floor, vacuuming and shampooing floor. Cleaning walls, windows and
doors Emptying and cleaning of dirt bins. Collect and removing of waste
papers. Freshen the office areas. Clean general kitchen by cleaning of basins.
185
Wash and keep stock of kitchen utensils Cleaning the restrooms by refilling
hand wash liquid soap. Replace toilet papers, hand towels and refreshers.
Empty and wash waste bins Keep and maintain cleaning materials and
equipment’s. Report broken cleaning machines and equipment Cleaning of
machines (microwaves, vacuum cleaners etc) equipment after use Request
cleaning materials.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Simon Bogatsu Tel No: (018) 388–5825
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: ApplicationsDEDECT1-7@nwpg.gov.za
OFFICE OF THE PREMIER
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted online, or hand delivered at the Directorate of
Human Resource Management, Second Floor, Ga-rona Building, Mmabatho.
All attachments for online must including the Z83 and CV only be in PDF format
only as one document, indicated the correct job title and the reference number
of the post on the subject line of your e-mail. Use the correct e-mail address
associated with the post. Failure to do so, your application will be disqualified.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025 at 16H00(walk-in) and 00.00 mid-night(online)
NOTE : applications must indicate the correct reference number. The Office of the
Premier is an equal employment opportunity and affirmative action employer,
and it is committed to the achievement and maintenance of diversity and equity
in employment, especially in respect of race, gender and disability. In terms of
the employment equity plan for the Office, preference will be given to People
with Disabilities, Youth, and Females for these posts. Applications must be
submitted on the approved Z83 form (81/971431) obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the DPSA website, www.dpsa.gov.za, which must be
completed is such a manner that provide sufficient information about your
candidature and the post applied for by completing all relevant fields. The
declaration must be signed and initials in the second page are not mandatory.
Should the applicant/s use incorrect application form for employment (Z83), or
not compliant with the notes, the application applicant/s will not be considered
for selection purposes(disqualified). The Z83 must accompanied by detailed
Curriculum Vitae clearly indicating positions held, period in the position and key
responsibilities with three contactable referees. Subject of relevant
qualification/s should be mentioned in the CV. Part A must be fully completed.
Part B, C and C questions of the Z83 may be left blank, marked as not relevant,
and use dashes or N/A if they do not apply to you or the position applied for.
Part E, F and G do not need to be completed if the CV has been attached and
provides the required information, However, the question related to conditions
that prevent re-appointment under Part F is compulsory for applicants seeking
re-employment into the Public Service. Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application. The
communication from the HR department regarding the requirements for
certified documents will be limited to shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only
shortlisted candidates for the post will be required to submit certified
documents on or before the day of the interview following communication from
HR. Failure to submit the requested documents will result in your application
not being considered. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to practical
exercise and integrity assessment. Incomplete Z83, Late and faxed
applications will not be considered. Communication will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. The successful candidates for the advertised positions will be
required to undergo personnel suitability checks, which includes criminal
records, citizenship, financial checks, qualifications, and previous employment
(Reference checks). It is the responsibility of the applicant to make sure that
the South African Qualifications Authority evaluates foreign qualifications, and
the evaluation certificate will be required on or before the day of the interview
following communication from HR. If you do not hear from the Office, three
months from the date of the advertisement consider your application
unsuccessful.
186
OTHER POSTS
POST 39/294 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SAFETY, HEALTH, ENVIRONMENT, RISK &
QUALITY (SHERQ) AND HEALTH & PRODUCTIVITY REF NO:
NWP/OOP/2025/52
Purpose: Coordinate and manage SHERQ and Health & Productivity
management (HPM) programs across the NWPG departments
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : A Three-year diploma /degree or an equivalent qualification in Environmental
Health or Occupational Health at NQF level 6. 6-7 years’ experience in
environmental health or occupational health and safety of which three (3) years
must be at Assistant Director Level. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
OHS Act and related legislation, Employee Health and Wellness Strategic
Framework for the Public Service. Knowledge of other Public Service
Legislation and Regulatory Frameworks. Good communication skills; Policy
Formulation, Research & report writing skills; Computer literacy, Planning and
organizing; Facilitation; Coordination; Conflict resolution; Problem solving;
Project management; Leadership and presentation skills.
DUTIES : Ensure departmental compliance with applicable legislation and policies.
Develop a consolidated SHERQ and HPM provincial plan, including reporting
tools. Support, monitor and evaluate implementation of SHERQ and HPM
policies, programmes and strategies by departments. Analyse departmental
reports and provide feedback. Coordinate SHERQ and HPM capacity building
programs. Coordinate and facilitate SHERQ and HPM forum meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. C Mokoka Tel No: (018) 388 3835
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment01@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/295 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PERFORMANCE MONITORING AND REPORTING
REF NO: NWP/OOP/2025/53
Job Purpose: To Coordinate Provincial Performance Monitoring and Reporting
in the NWPG.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification in Public Administration/Public Management
and /or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6 (NQF level and credits), 6-7
years’ experience in Monitoring and Evaluation of which 3 years should be in
Monitoring and Evaluation at Assistant Director Level. Driver’s license.
Computer literacy. Knowledge: Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations, Labour Relations; PFMA, Public Finance Regulations,
Framework for Managing Programme Performance Information, Framework
for Government Wide Monitoring and Evaluation system, South African
Statistical Quality Assessment Framework and Framework for the
Development of Strategic plans and Annual Performance Plan (Strategic plans,
APP, Operational Plans and Performance Agreements). Skills: The ideal
candidate should have proven strategic capability and leadership; project and
programme management; presentation skills, good communication skills,
problem-solving; report writing, change management and management of
diversity in a dynamic transformation and reforming environment.
DUTIES : Institutionalize performance monitoring in the province. Monitoring and
reporting on provincial performance. Develop Provincial Reporting guidelines.
Consult departments on the reporting guidelines for inputs. Develop reporting
templates. Capacitate Departments on reporting templates. Develop and
review Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Framework. Provide Feedback on
Departmental performance during the quarterly forum. Quality assures reports
in the eQPR system. Extract data from the system. Analyse and interpret data.
Consolidate cluster reports (APP, provincial priorities). Attend Departments
performance review sessions. Attend Departments’ planning sessions.
Conduct M&E skills audit. Developing M&E capacity building plan. Facilitate
training in collaboration with provincial training Centre. Facilitate M&E learning
networks. Monitoring and Evaluation of capacity building programmes/
initiatives. Supervise human resources/staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Munyai Tel No: (018) 388 2995
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment02@nwpg.gov.za
187
POST 39/296 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL POLICY REF NO: NWP/OOP/2025/54
Job Purpose: To coordinate the implementation of Provincial Policies in line
with the National Mandate and Priorities
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification at NQF level 6 or equivalent qualification. 6-7
years’ experience in policy coordination and development, of which 3 years
should be on an Assistant director level. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
Government prescripts regarding policy. Knowledge of Policy Development
and Analysis, Coordination and management. Computer literacy skills in Excel,
Word, PowerPoint. Reporting skills.
DUTIES : Ensure the alignment of Provincial Policies with National and Provincial
Priorities. The analysis and review of policies and strategies to support
integrated planning. Coordinate evidence-based policy implementation at
Provincial and Local Government levels. Provision of middle management
services in the Directorate. Provision of Secretariat Support to the Advisory
Councils of the Premier.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. K Lesedi Tel No: (018) 388 2802
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment03@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/297 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL MONITORING AND EVALUATION
SYSTEM REF NO: NWP/OOP/2025/55
Job Purpose: To develop and manage the implementation of Provincial
Monitoring and Evaluation System.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification in Information Science/ System/Technology,
Public Administration at NQF level 6 or equivalent qualifications (NQF level and
credits). 6-7 years’ experience of which three (3) years must be at Assistant
Director level. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of System development and management; Statistical Analysis,
Data Management, Performance Information Policies, Report writing, public
service Regulations and Public Service Act and policies. Computer literacy
skills in Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Reporting Skills, SharePoint, SPSS, Good
communication skills, Report writing skills, Planning and Organizing,
Facilitation skills, Coordination skills, Conflict resolution, Problem solving
Skills, Project management; Leadership, Presentation, Ability to interpret and
apply Policy, Policy formulation, Analytical and innovative thinking and
Research skills.
DUTIES : To Develop and Manage the Provincial M&E Systems. To conduct and
disseminate data and trend analysis. To manage and implement Monitoring &
Evaluation Capacity Building Systems and Initiatives. To develop and maintain
a Provincial Statistical Information Warehouse. Manage the implementation of
the operational plan & work plans in line with the strategic objectives of the
directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N.G Molema Tel No: (018) 388 5232
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment04@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/298 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PUBLICATION REF NO: NWP/OOP/2025/56
Job Purpose: To provide Public Information Services in the Northwest
Provincial Government.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Three -year tertiary qualification in Communications/Journalism/Marketing at
NQF level 6 and/ or equivalent qualifications (NQF level and credits). 6-7 years’
experience applicable to the relevant discipline of which 3 years should be at
Assistant Director level. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Journalism and
media operations, knowledge of Public Service Regulations and Public Service
Act, Media regulations, Government Publication policies and frameworks,
Classification. Editing, sub editing and writing skills. Good personnel relations,
Attention to detail, Honesty and professionalism.
DUTIES : Manage, edit and produce all government publications. Manage editorial
content of all government publications. Develop and manage editorial policy of
government publications.
188
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T.B Setswambung Tel No: (018) 388 5695
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment05@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/299 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BOJANALA DISTRICT REF NO: NWP/OOP/2025/57
Job Purpose: To manage the District Office, coordinate and monitor District
wide service delivery improvement support programmes and Interventions.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Rustenburg
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year qualification in Public administration, Social Science/ or equivalent
qualifications at NQF level 6 (NQF level and credits). 6-7 years’ experience in
Service Delivery services of which 3 years should be at Assistant Director level.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Local Government Prescripts; PFMA;
LRA and PSA. Planning and organizing; Management and leadership; People
management; Financial management; Computer and Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Management of the District Office personnel, reports, budget and assets. The
coordination and monitoring of implementation of district service delivery
intervention programmes based on the five concretes. Provision of institutional
development support and integrity management. Provision of access to
government wide service delivery to priority communities through the
implementation of community development workers programme at municipal
level. The communication of public service delivery initiatives and reporting of
community newsworthy events.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. JT Mawelela Tel No: (018) 388 5749
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment06@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/300 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CONDITIONS OF SERVICES AND
REMUNERATIONS REF NO: NWP/OOP/2025/58
Job Purpose: To manage the implementation of conditions of service and
remuneration across the NWPG.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Three- year tertiary qualification in Human Resource Management, Public
Administration/Management and/ or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6. 6-
7 years’ experience in condition of service and remuneration of which 3 years
should be at Assistant Director level. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of Public service Act and Knowledge of Public service Regulations;
Knowledge of Labour Relations; Knowledge of the PFMA and Knowledge and
Public Finance Regulations. Good Communications skills; Problem solving
skills; Report writing skills; Computer skills; Coordination, Planning and
Organizing Skills.
DUTIES : Monitoring the implementation of employee benefits which include Policy and
Procedure on Incapacity Leave and Ill Health Retirement (PILIR). Monitoring
the implementation of compensation in respect of injuries on duty. "Monitoring
the implementation of remuneration matters which includes Overtime
Allowance and acting allowance. Monitor the implementation of Pensions
administration. Monitoring Leave management, homeowners allowance
scheme and long Service Awards. Issuing service benefits and conditions of
services related circulars to Departments. Compile, analyze and produce
service benefits and conditions of services related reports for management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Bahula Tel No: (018) 388 3087
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment07@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/301 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS REF NO:
NWP/OOP/2025/59
Purpose: To manage and facilitate the provision of Employee Health and
Wellness services.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year qualification Psychology or Social Work at NQF level 6.
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) or
as a Social Worker with the South Africa Council for Social Services
Professions (SACSSP).5 years’ experience with 3-5 years’ experience in
Employee Health and Wellness of which 2 years should be at a supervisory
level. Computer literacy in MS Office packages. Valid Driver’s license. The
189
incumbent must be willing to travel. Knowledge, Skills & Competencies:
Knowledge and experience in HIV and AIDS, and TB management, Wellness
Management, and Safety, Health, Environment, Risk and Quality (SHERQ)
management as well as promotion of health and productivity. Knowledge of
Government legislation pertaining to Employee Health & Wellness Programme,
Human Resource Management, Managing Performance and Supervision.
Ability to maintain strict confidentiality, handle conflict situations, write reports
and make presentations.
DUTIES : Manage the quality of life within the Office through designing and
implementation of employee assistance and wellness programmes;
Coordinate the provision of psychosocial, individual and organizational
wellness. Coordinate the provision of physical wellness and monitor and
evaluate the impact of the wellness programme in the Office. Conduct
counselling, group work, crises intervention, trauma debriefing and running
workshops and promoting employee wellness. Developing workshops
material, questionnaire design and data collection. Data capturing, data
analysis and write reports. Coordinate Employee Health and Wellness events.
Develop and maintain effective client record keeping system and provide
statistical and other reports as directed. Provide support and advice to
management of Employee Health and wellness issues. Ensure adherence to
the required legal and ethical requirements of Employee Wellness and
Workplace HIV and AIDS services. Manage the performance of Staff and
regularly ensure assessment of their performance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms BC Maseng Tel No: (018) 388-3440
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment08@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/302 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION SECURITY REF NO:
NWP/OOP/2025/60
Job Purpose: To Coordinate and manage information Security.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Three -year qualification in Security Management at NQF level 6 and/or
equivalent (NQF level and credits). Security Managers course offered by SSA,
and Communication Security certificate(s) will serve as an advantage.
Registered with PSIRA, Code 8 driver’s license, 3-5 years’ experience in
Security Management of which 2 years must be at supervisory level.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of security management,
security vetting and communication security. Good communication skills,
Computer skills and Policy formulation.
DUTIES : Coordinate and monitor information security in the Northwest Provincial
Departments. Coordinate and manage information, documents,
communication & Information Technology Security of the office. Assist in the
Development of the Information Security Polices and Standards. Coordinate
and manage Vetting Process, threat risk assessments, Audits and Inspections
pertaining to Information Security. Coordinate and conduct investigations
pertaining to information security breaches. Coordinate and manage
classification of information, TSCM, Compile assessment and/or inspections
reports. Develop and implement Information Security programs. Coordinate
and conduct Information Security training and awareness. Coordinate security
regarding Executive Meetings. Liaise with various security stakeholders.
Compile monthly and quarterly reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M.S Dince/Mr N.K Matshavhange Tel No: (018) 888 3789/4694
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment09@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/303 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE REF
NO: NWP/OOP/2025/61
Job Purpose: To coordinate the provision of organisational risk services and
compliance audit.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification in Risk Management and/ or Internal Audit at
NQF level 6 and/or equivalent (NQF level and credits). 3-5 years’ experience
in risk and compliance management of which 2 years must be at supervisory
level. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of
Government policies; Knowledge of risk management; Knowledge of risk
190
assessment; Knowledge of internal controls; Knowledge of corporate
compliance. Knowledge of corporate governance and Knowledge information
systems security. Technical skills; Decision – making skills. Judgement skills
and Execution skills.
DUTIES : Assist the supervisor with implementation and maintenance of the Risk
Management Strategy and the Risk Management Policy. Assist with the
compilation of the Strategic, Operational, ICT and Fraud risk registers.
Coordinate and facilitate Risk Management Workshops. Liaise with internal
Audit and External Audit on Audit assignment. Coordinate the activities of the
Risk Management Committee and perform secretariat functions. Perform any
other duties that may be expected from time to time.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. D Ditibane Tel No: (018) 888 571
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment10@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/304 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PUBLICATION REF NO: NWP/OOP/2025/62
Job Purpose: To Coordinate and facilitate the dissemination of Public
Information Services in the NWPG.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Three -year tertiary qualification in Communications/Journalism/Marketing at
NQF level 6 and/or equivalent. 3-5 years’ experience in communication and
reporting, of which 2 years must be at supervisory level. Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies: Journalism and newsroom management; Publication prescripts
and polices in public service: COMTASK REPORT; PSA; PSR; Media Law; The
Constitution of South Africa; Protection of State Information Bill (South Africa)
and The World Law Guide (South African Law) etc. Writing subbing and
interviewing skills; Planning and execution skills; Clear sequencing of
events/activities/process steps; Work-plans exceptionally well thought through
and expressed; Quantitative, qualitative data analysis, as well as Content
analysis; Research Skills; Team player and Proactive.
DUTIES : Coordination and Facilitation of operations in the newsroom. Facilitate Profiling
of departmental staff members, municipalities and traditional authorities.
Facilitate Publications at Fora and identified Government Campaigns.
Coordination of Publications in Provincial events and programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T.B Setswambung Tel No: (018) 388 5695
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment11@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/305 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING AND
TRANSFORMATION REF NO: NWP/OOP/2025/63
Job Purpose: To facilitate and coordinate the implementation of transformation
programs in the departmental strategies and implementation plans.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Three -year tertiary appropriate qualification at NQF level 6 and/or equivalent.
3-5 years’ experience in strategic planning and transformation of which 2 years
must be at supervisory level. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Sound and
in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, understanding of legislative
frameworks, policies and strategies on transformation: UN Treaties,
Government Transformation Policies, Employment Equity Act, Skills
Development Act, Preferential Procurement Act, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, Labour Relations Act, Public Service Act, Public service
regulations and Management of human and financial resources. Analytical,
critical & innovative thinking, Presentation and Facilitation, Presentation and
facilitation, Report writing, Leadership, Project Management, Conflict
Management, Financial Management Strategic Management, Policy analysis
implementation.
DUTIES : Ensure departmental compliance with global, national and provincial
legislations and policy frameworks on transformation (women empowerment &
gender equality; rights of persons with disabilities, older persons, and children
as well as youth development) programmes. Manage the development and
review of departmental policies and strategies to ensure mainstreaming of
transformation programs. Manage the implementation of transformation
programmes and activities.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. A Mothupi Tel No: (018) 388 5735
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment12@nwpg.gov.za
191
POST 39/306 : OFFICE MANAGER: DDG: ADMINISTRATION REF NO: NWP/OOP/2025/64
Job Purpose: To manage the office of the Deputy Director General
Administration.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Three -year tertiary qualification in office administration / secretarial studies at
NQF level 6 or any other relevant and equivalent qualifications as recognized
by SAQA. 3-5 years’ experience as a secretary or administration officer.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Basic knowledge of Batho Pele
Principles, Public Finance Management Act, Public Service Act, Knowledge
and understanding of Public Service Policies and Procedures, Good
communication (verbal and written), Good telephone etiquette, Problem
solving, Report writing, Customer care, Computer literate, Basic knowledge of
financial administration, Sound organizational and managerial skills. Ability to
act with tact and discretion. Willingness to work extended hours.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to the office of the Deputy Director General.
Provide secretarial services to the Deputy Director General’s meetings.
Manage the Deputy Director General’s Schedule/ Itinerary. Co-ordinate Deputy
Director General’s meetings. Ensure effective and professional liaison within
the Branch, Clients Departments and stakeholders. Perform any other ad hoc
services relevant to the office of the Deputy Director General.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TM Mooketsi Tel No: (018) 388 4277
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment13@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/307 : SENIOR COMMUNICATION OFFICER: BRANDING AND MARKETING REF
NO: NWP/OOP/2025/65
Purpose: Provide an effective Marketing and branding Corporate
Communication Strategy.
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification in corporate communication, public
management at NQF level 6 and/or equivalent qualifications (NQF Level and
Credits). 2-4 experience in Communications/ Corporate Branding and
Marketing of which 1 year should be at supervisory level. Computer literary in
MS Word, MS Excel and PowerPoint. Valid Drivers’ license. The Incumbent
must be willing to travel. A certificate in graphic design and relevant experience
as layout artist and web development will be added advantage. Knowledge,
Skills & Competencies: Knowledge of Corporate communication and
marketing, Good communication skills, Report writing skills, facilitate skills,
Coordinate skills, Conflict resolution, problem solving, project management
skills, Leadership and presentation, Interpret and innovative thinking and
Research skills.
DUTIES : Implement an effective Marketing and branding Strategy. Coordinate Website
content, update internal notice boards, Coordinate internal events. Develop
marketing flyers, Posters etc. Coordinate Website Content. Arrange Website
Content Management Forum quarterly meetings, Communicate organisation’s
activities, products and/or services. Enhance the reputation of the North West
Government Corporate brand: Ensure that district offices are well branded,
Coordinate the process of procuring branding, business cards, corporate gifts,
calendars and diaries, Implement concepts and projects plans, Write a well-
researched articles for Corporate Communication Marketing materials and
Publications, Attend and presents Communication plans during events plenary
meetings, Develop branding plans, Regular/constant interaction with
government clients, stakeholders, etc. Arrange exhibition and branding
materials during outreach programme and events, Distribute information
products during public events, Generate reports/ action plans after public
meetings, Provide districts with branding and marketing support.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Isaac Mokaila Tel No: (018) 388- 5828
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment14@nwpg.gov.za
192
POST 39/308 : SENIOR COMMUNICATION OFFICER: MEDIA RELATIONS REF NO:
NWP/OOP/2025/66
Job Purpose: To provide media liaison management support services.
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Three- year tertiary qualification in Communication at NQF level 6 and/ or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level and Credits). 2-3 years’ experience in
media relations. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Understanding of
Government policies, procedures and programmes. Public Service
Regulations and Acts, Communicators’ code of good conduct, Communication
Policies and Strategies and Public Finance Management Act. Writing Skills,
Information management and computer literacy.
DUTIES : Media Liaison coordination; Draft content for media alerts, advisories and
releases, Facilitate logistics for media attendance at Office of the Premier
activities and media engagement sessions, Draft content for electronic and
print media advertisements, write development articles for government
publications, Maintain an updated media database. Media Monitoring and
Analysis; Monitor provincial media coverage on daily basis, Produce daily
media monitoring and analysis reports. Contribute to Social media content plan
and implementation, social media monitoring and analysis. Provide
photography services during Office of the Premier events, activities and media
engagement sessions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. B Mohlakoana Tel No: (018) 388 3705
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment15@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/309 : SERVER ADMINISTRATOR REF NO: NWP/OOP/2025/67
Purpose: To support the provincial server environment, by ensuring backups
are performed and maintained, with storage administration and maintenance
performed.
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification in ICT or International Certifications such as
MCSE, Azure Server administration, Linux etc at NQF level 6. 2 – 4years’
experience in ICT of which 1 year should be at supervisory level. Knowledge,
Skills & Competencies: Knowledge of server system software and hardware.
Software Configurations requirements of Network operating systems.
Knowledge of methods, tools, software used in server environment for
troubleshoot, testing, repair and maintenance. Good Communication skills.;
Good telephone etiquette; Report writing skills; Computer skills; Problem
solving skills; Project management and In-depth troubleshooting capabilities.
DUTIES : Administration and support services; Ensure available and management of
capacity on storage, in various operating systems and technologies;
Administration and Management of Server Hardware (storage) and Backup
Solutions and Monitor backup and storage services and ensure optimal
functionality. Data and storage administration; Manage VMWare replications
and snapshots as well as recovery methods for vm’s. Report backup and
replications failures and remedy timely.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. P Teise Tel No: (018) 388- 3292
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment16@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/310 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: DDG: ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
NWP/OOP/2025/68
Job Purpose: To render a secretariat support service to the Deputy Director
General.
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification in management assistant/ secretarial studies
at NQF level 6 or any other relevant and equivalent qualifications as recognized
by SAQA. 2-3 years’ experience applicable to the relevant discipline.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of Prescripts / Policies.
Good Communication (verbal and written), excellent customer relations, good
telephone etiquette, computer literate, problem solving, report writing and
interpersonal skills. Must have the ability to take initiatives, work independently
and under pressure. Basic financial administration.
193
DUTIES : Provides secretarial and receptionist support services in the Office of the
Deputy Director General. Manage the DDG’s schedule of appointments and
meetings. Render general administrative support services. Provides support
to the DDG regarding meetings. Manage DDG’s office budget. Manage the
DDG’s travel arrangements and handle all correspondence. Keep abreast with
of legislative prescripts/ policies & procedures applicable to the work terrain.
Financial tasks: This can include managing the Office’s expenses and keeping
track of budgets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TM Mooketsi Tel No: (018) 388 4277
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment17@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/311 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: SERVICE DELIVERY MONITORING AND
INTERVENTION REF NO: NWP/OOP/2025/69
Job Purpose: To render a secretariat support service to the Chief Director.
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification in management assistant at NQF level 6 and/
or equivalent qualifications. 2-3 years’ experience applicable to the relevant
discipline. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of Prescripts /
Policies. Good Communication (verbal and written) skills, excellent customer
relations skills, good telephone etiquette, computer skills, problem solving
skills, report writing skills and interpersonal skills. Must have the ability to take
initiatives and work independently, under pressure and long hours. Knowledge
of financial administration and Project Management.
DUTIES : Provides secretarial and receptionist support services in the Office of the Chief
Director. Manage the Chief Director’s schedule of appointments and meetings.
Render general administrative support services. Provides support to the DDG
regarding meetings. Manage Chief Director’s office budget. Manage the Chief
Director’s travel arrangements and handle all correspondence. Keep abreast
with of legislative prescripts/ policies & procedures applicable to the work
terrain. Financial tasks: This can include managing the Office’s expenses and
keeping track of budgets. Conduct research when required.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. A.J Mothupi Tel No: (018) 388 5735
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment18@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/312 : HARDWARE TECHNICIAN REF NO: NWP/OOP/2025/70
Job Purpose: To offer day to day ICT technical support to all users of NWPG
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification in IT at NQF level 6 and/or equivalent
qualifications. 2-4 years’ experience in IT Support or applicable to the relevant
discipline. Drivers license. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge
of information and communication technology. Infrastructure technologies.
Configurations Software requirements. Network operating systems. Memory
management and integration. Knowledge of methods, tools, equipment and
material used in computer equipment testing, repair and maintenance. Good
troubleshooting capabilities, experience in supporting Microsoft. Knowledge of
Active Directory and Windows/Linux Operating systems. Good Communication
and interpersonal skills. Good telephone etiquette. Report writing skills.
Computer skills. Problem solving skills. Project management Leadership and
presentation. Team player and self- motivated.
DUTIES : Support the provincial network infrastructure. Implementation of software,
application, configuration and network changes (Release Management).
Support the desktop, laptop, printers and automation function. Offer Support
for Mobile Devices Connectivity. Offer Support for Peripheral Devices. End
user support and account management. Participate in projects. Support audio
and visual platform and hardware. Test, diagnose, repair, and maintain
computing equipment. Ensure that all calls logged are resolved within the
required time. Travel to provide user support.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L Mofela Tel No: (018) 388 4033
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment19@nwpg.gov.za
194
POST 39/313 : STATE ACCOUNTANT REF NO: NWP/OOP/2025/71
Job Purpose: To provide financial administration services in the Office of the
Premier.
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year recognized National Diploma or Degree in Accounting/ Financial
Management (NQF level 6/7) as recognised by SAQA or relevant qualification.
2- 3 years’ relevant work experience in financial management environment.
Knowledge of any basic financial operating systems (PERSAL & BAS).
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Must be computer literate (MS Word,
Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and Internet). Added advantages: BAS and
PERSAL certificate and Driver’s license. Basic knowledge of the Public Service
financial legislation, procedures and National Treasury Regulations (PFMA,
PSA, PSR). Knowledge of any financial operating systems (PERSAL, BAS).
Basic knowledge of financial functions, practices as well as the ability to
capture data, operate computer and collate financial information Should have
good numeracy, accuracy, report writing, problem-solving, planning,
organising, team leadership and communication skills. Computer skills,
Planning and organizing, Language (Good verbal and written communication),
basic numeracy skills, ability to perform routine tasks, ability to utilise computer
equipment, flexibility, interpersonal relations, accuracy, aptitudes of figures.
DUTIES : Administer deductions and garnishee. Tax Administration and reconciliation.
Monitor employee tax deductions and prepare payment packs for third party
deductions. Administer claims (S&T, overtime and cellphones etc).
Implementation of salary related advice. Assist with any ad hoc and other
requests within Salary administration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Mpho Molefe Tel No: (018) 388 5077
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment20@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/314 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: BURSARY LEARNERSHIPS AND
INTERNSHIP PROGRAMMES REF NO: NWP/OOP/2025/72
Purpose: To facilitate the implementation of Provincial Bursary policy;
International Scholarships; Learnerships and Internship programmes.
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year appropriate qualification at NQF level 6 and/or equivalent
qualification (NQF level and credits). 2 –3 years’ relevant experience applicable
to the relevant discipline of which 1 year should be at supervisory level.
Computer literary in MS Word, MS Excel and PowerPoint. Valid Drivers’
license. Knowledge, Skills & Competencies: Knowledge of Provincial Bursary
Policy; Management of human resources; Management of human and financial
resources; Quality of work; Acceptance of responsibility; Knowledge on bursary
administration and scholarships programmes; Good communication and report
writing skills; Administrative and records management and clerical procedures
such as managing files and records, designing forms, & others; Understanding
of Government Policies/Legislative frameworks such as Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Skills Development Act and National Development
Plan (NDP) Understanding of the Public Service Regulations; Constitution of
the Republic of South Africa; The Public Service Act, 1994; Batho Pele
principles; Labour Relations Act; NDP; The (PFMA) Public Financial
Management Act; Employment Equity Act; Skills Development Act;
Performance Management & Development System; Skills Development Levy
Act; Good communication skills; Report writing skills; Planning, control and
organizing; Conflict resolution; Problem solving skills; Project management;
Leadership and Presentation, Analytical and innovative thinking; Computer
literacy; Time management; Technical skills; Interpersonal; Flexibility; Initiative.
DUTIES : Facilitate the implementation of the Provincial Bursary Policy. Facilitate
implementation of International Scholarships Programmes. Facilitate
implementation of Learnership / apprentices programmes. Assessment of
academic performance, interpretation of results and provide remedial
recommendations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. T.E Tlhale Tel No: (018) 388 1076
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment21@nwpg.gov.za
195
POST 39/315 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SKILL DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
NWP/OOP/2025/73
Purpose: To provide administrative support services to the Skills Development
Sub-Directorate.
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year appropriate qualification at NQF level 6 and/or equivalent
qualification (NQF level and credits). 2 –3 years’ experience in skill
development of which 1 year should be at supervisory level. Knowledge, Skills
& Competencies: Knowledge of Public service prescripts & HRD/M, Basic
knowledge of computer programmes, Records keeping management, Supply
Chain Management, Secretarial duties and Batho-Pele Principles. Good
communication skills; Report writing skills, Coordination skills; Computer skills,
Customer Care, Planning and Organising skills, Conflict resolution skills and
Financial management skills and good record management.
DUTIES : Provide general clerical support services. Provide financial administration
support services in the component. Prepare monthly and quarterly expenditure
report. Handling incoming and outgoing correspondence, ordering and
managing office supplies and equipment inventory, managing skills
development calendar of events and compliance, coordinating meetings,
scheduling appointments and making the necessary logistical arrangements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. T.E Tlhale Tel No: (018) 388 1076
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment22@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/316 : SECRETARY: EXCO SUPPORT REF NO: NWP/OOP/2025/74
Job Purpose: To provide secretarial support to the Director’s office.
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Matric and 0–2-year National Higher Certificate in Office Administration/
Secretarial at NQF level 5 or equivalent qualification. 0-2 years’ relevant
experience in office administration and/or secretarial field. Knowledge, Skills
and Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of Government policies and
procedures. Secretarial, administrative and organizational skills. Oral and
written communication skills. Good inter-personal relationship skills. Good
telephone etiquette and computer skills. Records (documents) management
and Time management. Ability to work in a pressurized environment and
willingness to work irregular hours.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial support services to the Director. Records management of
incoming mail received, and outgoing mail distributed. Manage the diary of the
Director. Provide clerical support services to the Director. Arrange
accommodation for the Director. Complete S&T claims for the Director. Manage
the reception area of the Directorate. Procurement of goods and services in
the Directorate. Provide support to the Director regarding meetings. Manage
Directorate meeting logistics and taking minutes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. F Rosenberg Tel No: (018) 388 3034
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment23@nwpg.gov.za
POST 36/317 : SECRETARY: WOMEN AND CHILDREN COORDINATION AND
MONITORING REF NO: NWP/OOP/2025/75
Job Purpose: To provide administrative services in the Director ’s office
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Matric and 0–2-year National Higher Certificate in Office Administration/
Secretarial at NQF level 5 or equivalent qualification. 0-2 years relevant
experience in office administration and/ or secretarial field. Knowledge, Skills
and Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of Government policies,
Knowledge of computer, Knowledge of Registry and office administration
duties, Working Knowledge, Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in
terms of the working environment. Good telephone etiquette, Basic written
communication skills, Computer skills, Planning and Organisation skills.
DUTIES : Provides Secretarial support services to the director; Incoming mail received,
manually and filed within 1 day, Outgoing mail recorded, filed and dispatched
within 1 day, Manage the diary of the Director by updating director’s diary every
day and send email as reminder to director. Consolidate sub-directorate
196
documents for the director for processing. Develop a database of stakeholders
and partners for the directorate. Provide clerical support services to the
director; Arrange accommodation for the director, Complete S&T claims for the
director, Manage the reception area and Procurement of goods and services
in the directorate. Provide support to the director regarding meetings; Manage
meeting logistics by sending out meeting schedules quarterly locate and book
venues within 2 weeks send out invitations before the meeting, Take minutes
of meetings and distribute minutes within 2 weeks of meeting for input.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. P Sebetlela Tel No: (018) 388 2309
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment24@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/318 : REGISTRY CLERK: DG SUPPORT REF NO: NWP/OOP/2025/76
Job Purpose: To render administrative and clerical support services in the
Directorate
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Matric and 0–2-year National Higher Certificate at NQF level 5 or equivalent
qualification. 0-2 years relevant experience in office administration and/ or
secretarial field. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge and
understanding of Government policies, Knowledge of computer, Good
grooming and presentation, Self - management and motivation, Knowledge on
the relevant legislation /policies / prescripts and procedures and Basic
knowledge on financial administration. Good telephone etiquette. Sound
organisational Skills, Good people skills and basic written communication
skills.
DUTIES : Provide a secretariat / receptionist support service to the manager. Provides a
clerical support service to the manager. Remains up to date with regard to
prescripts / policies and procedures applicable to her / his work terrain to
ensure efficient and effective support to the manager. Render effective filing
and record management. Sort, register and dispatch mail.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M Melokwe Tel No: (018) 388 5780
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment25@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/319 : CLEANER REF NO: NWP/OOP/2025/77
Job Purpose: To provide cleaning and housekeeping services to Office of the
Premier – North West Province.
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 and /equivalent qualifications. 0–1-years’ experience applicable to
the relevant discipline. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of
cleaning. Cleaning skills. Communication skills.
DUTIES : Clean offices corridors, garages and Boardrooms. Keep and maintain cleaning
machines and equipment. Provision of refreshment during meetings. Clean
kitchens, offices, corridors, garages, and boardrooms. Collection and disposal
of waste twice daily. Keep and maintain cleaning machines and equipment in
good working condition. Use and maintain cleaning materials properly and
report shortages. Prepare and clean boardrooms before and after meetings.
Provide refreshments during meetings as required. Rotate between different
areas as directed by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T Koko Tel No: (018) 388 3540 / Mr. E Lerefolo Tel No: (018) 388 3439
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: ooprecruitment26@nwpg.gov.za
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND ROADS
This Department is an Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Employer. It is our intention to promote
representatively (race, gender and disability) e.g. White, Indian, Coloured and African, in terms of equity
plan preference will be given to Disabilities, Youth, Females in the Department through the filling of
posts. People with disability are encouraged to apply. The candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representatively will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : All Applications must be submitted online, Or Hand delivered to Registry Office
no. 133, Ground Floor, East Wing - Old Parliament Building Complex, Modiri
Molema Road, Mmabatho, or addressed to: Human Resource Manager, Public
Works and Roads, Private Bag X2080, Mmabatho, 2735. Use the correct E-
mail: DPWRHORecruit@nwpg.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : HRM Recruitment Unit - Mr. M.E Khauoe
197
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025 (posted / handed, e-mailed applications must have reached
the Department by 16h30 pm Walk-in and 00h00 Mid-night online will, as a rule
not be accepted).
NOTE : Please note: On the Subject Line of your E-mail, Indicate the Correct Job Title
and the Reference number of the post. All attachments for online submission
must include the Z83 Form and Curriculum Vitae only be in PDF format, as one
document. Failure to do so, your application will be disqualified. Compliance:It
is compulsory to fill all fields on the New Amended Z83 Form (81/971431) as
prescribed with effect 01 January 2021, is obtainable from any Public Service,
Departments or on the DPSA Website, www.dpsa.gov.za. Part A must be fully
completed by the applicant’s indicate correct advertised Post name and
Reference number, Centre, Notice period on the z83 form. Z83 form part of
declaration must be signed, dated and initialled only on the first page. The Z83
Form must be accompanied by a recently updated/ detailed Curriculum Vitae
and include three (3) names contactable referees. The personal details and the
subjects of relevant qualification, should be mentioned on the CV, also clearly
indicating current positions held in sequential dates. Outline or provide the
sufficient information about related experience and key responsibilities with
respective dates. Part B, C and D must be fully completed, however B, C, E on
the space that indicate date of birth, work permit, in the event of employment
will immediately relinquish such business, preferred language, current study,
may be left blank if not relevant to you. Part E, F and G do not need to be
completed if the CV has provided the updated information. Part F is compulsory
to be completed for applicants seeking re- employment into Public Service.
Please note: It is a responsibility of a Person in possession of a foreign
qualification to furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Only shortlisted
candidate(s) for post will be required to submit certified documents on or before
the day of the interview. NB: Senior Management Pre-entry Programme
Certificate: No applicant shall be recommended for appointment without
producing a Certificate of completion (Nyukela) is a mandatory requirement
obtainable via this link: https://www.thensg.gov.za, offered by the National
School of Government. Failure to submit the requested information will result
in your application not being considered. The e-mailed applications will be
accepted. Applications received after the closing date will, as a rule not be
accepted. It will be expected of candidates to be available for interview process
on a date, time and place as determined by the Department. Applicant’s
previous information as background/reference checks will be verified through
contactable referees. Shortlisted candidate(s) will be required to undergo
personnel suitability checks and will be subjected to security screening which
include, criminal records, citizenship, financial credits, asset records,
qualifications verification and vetting. The Department reserves the right not to
make any appointments to the advertised posts. The successful candidate will
enter into an annual performance agreement, and annually disclose his/her
financial interest. NB: Salary Level 1-12, all shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to practical exercise and integrity assessment test. All shortlisted
candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical competency exercise
that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job. Recommend
candidate(s) will be required to attend generic managerial competencies using
the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Applicant requiring
additional information regarding advertised post must direct their enquiries to
the relevant person indicated. NB: Communication and Correspondence will
be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not receive any response
from us within three months after closing date, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful.
MANAGEMNT ECHELON
POST 39/320 : CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER REF NO: H/O 75/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus an undergraduate qualification
(NQF level) in Financial Management/ Accounting / Financial Accounting/
Commerce / Supply Chain Management / Public Finance as recognized by
SAQA. Senior Management Pre-entry Programme (Nyukela Certificate) for
SMS. Valid Driver’s license. Experience: 5 years of relevant experience at
198
Senior Managerial level from Public Service and equivalent level from Private
Sector. Knowledge: Knowledge of GRAP and modified cash standards, PFMA,
Treasury Regulations and Guidelines, Public Service Anti- corruption and
Fraud Prevention measures. Knowledge of Government’s accounting and
financial systems; Cash flow forecasting. Public Service legislative
frameworks. Financial Management. Strategic capability and leadership.
Programme and project management. Change Management. Service Delivery
innovation. Problem Solving and analysis. People management and
empowerment. Client orientation and customer focus. Communication.
Honesty and integrity. Planning and stakeholder relationship management
skills, including the ability to liaise and operate within intergorvemental context.
Policy formulation and analysis skills. Monitoring and evaluation skills.
Coordination and facilitation skills. Financial analysis and analytical skills.
Problem solving within Financial and supply chain legal framework. Risk
management skills. Liaison, leadership and supportive skills to the entire
department.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and direction on budgeting, financial, accounting
and supply chain management practices in line with National Treasury
Regulations. Support and advise the Head of Department (Accounting Officer)
pertaining to matters that have strategic and financial implications. Manage the
implementation and maintenance of effective Budget Control services within
the Department. Provide financial and supply chain management technical
advice and strategic support to Senior and Line Managers to ensure the
effective utilisation of resources in line with the strategic objectives of the
department. Manage and provide supply chain, fleet admin and assets
management services. Ensure adequate financial control arrangements and
systems. Exercise budgetary control and provide at a strategic level early
warning arrangements. Oversee the Departmental budget preparation
process, provide advice and support and review the final draft before
submission to relevant authorities. Manage departmental audit process.
Review and manage the finalisation of quarterly and annual financial
statements including other financial reports. Ensure effective and efficient,
economical and transparent use of financial and other departmental resources
(including assets). Utilise applicable systems for monitoring and reporting of
procurement, expenditure, assets and liabilities. Manage demand and
acquisition for infrastructure projects. Manage the effective and efficient
utilization of resources in the Chief Directorate. Provide strategic leadership
and direction to the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRY : Dr. N.M.G Mfikwe Tel No: (018) 388 2426
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: DPWRHORecruit2@nwpg.gov.za
POST 39/321 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE, COORDINATION,
IMPLEMENTATION AND MAINTENANCE REF NO: H/O 76/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus a Bachelor’s Degree (NQF
Level 7) in Built Environment/ Public Administration or related field.
Professional Registration with the relevant council will be an added advantage.
Senior Management Pre-entry Programme (Nyukela Certificate) for SMS. A
valid driver’s license. Experience: 5 years’ of relevant experience at Senior
Managerial level. Extensive experience in the planning and management of
roads infrastructure projects. Knowledge: Broad knowledge of Public Service
Regulation. Public Service Act, Government procurement system and related
legislation (e.g. PPPFA and PFMA), Treasury Regulations and Practice Notes,
Occupational Health Safety Act and other related acts and regulations
governing the Public Service, Government policies for the Expanded Public
Works Programme (EPWP) Proven programme/project planning, Technical
policies on construction, contract management and engineering services.
Departmental Strategic plan and goals, Expert design, construction and
maintenance of roads. Knowledge of design codes and technical
specifications. Knowledge of the built environment legal and operational
compliance. Skills: Strategic capability and leadership, Programme and Project
Management, Financial Management, Change Management, Knowledge
Management, Service Delivery Innovation, Conflict Resolution, Research and
policy formulation, Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel, Power Point), People
Management and Empowerment, Strategic Capability and Leadership, Report
199
writing, Good planning and organising skills, Data Collection. Problem solving,
Strategic planning, presentation and facilitation skills. Interpersonal skills.
Ability to work under pressure, willingness to travel and work beyond normal
working hours.
DUTIES : Manage the provision and maintenance of infrastructure projects in the
districts. Liaise with local stakeholders to identify priority infrastructure with
reference to District Infrastructure Development Plan. Estimate project cost
and allocate district funds or apply for funding from donors to secure funding
commitments. Manage and monitor implementation and maintenance of
infrastructure projects in the districts. Maintain provincial roads and render
related services. Set and approve strategic infrastructure priorities aligned with
national development goals. Enforce compliance with service standards and
maintenance schedules. Manage construction plant services. Provide strategic
oversight, policy leadership, and institutional coordination to ensure the
availability, utilization, and maintenance of construction equipment (plant) for
public infrastructure delivery. Manage the implementation of property
management services. Oversee community based programmes and ensure
job opportunity creation. Ensure the rendering of efficient and effective
corporate support to the district. Manage the resources of the Chief Directorate.
Provide strategic leadership.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. N.M.G Mfikwe Tel No: (018) 388 2426
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: DPWRHORecruit4@nwpg.gov.za
200
ANNEXURE V
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 39/322 : DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING
Directorate: Infrastructure Planning
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs)
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate undergraduate qualification
(NQF level 7) in Engineering, Architecture, Urban and Regional Planning, or
Quantity Surveying as recognised by SAQA, with at least 5 years’ experience
at a middle/senior managerial level. Post-graduate management qualification
and registration as a Built Environment Professional with the relevant Council
are desirable. The Pre-entry Certificate for the Senior Management Services is
a requirement. Candidates not possessing this entry requirement can still apply
but are requested to register for the course and complete it, as no appointment
can be made in its absence. The course is available at the National School of
Governance (NSG) under the name “Certificate for entry into the SMS”, and
full details can be sourced from the following
link:https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-pre-entry-programme/. All
costs associated here with are the responsibility of the applicant. Experience:
Public sector management and/or related management experience in the
planning and delivery of infrastructure programmes in the Health sector.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s license. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): In-depth knowledge of management and administrative
processes in the Public Service. Proven knowledge and management
experience in the planning and delivery of infrastructure programmes for the
health sector. Knowledge of the built environment professions. Strong
leadership, communication, stakeholder engagement, and project
management skills.
DUTIES : Lead the strategic planning and alignment of infrastructure with integrated
service delivery models. Develop, review, and manage infrastructure planning
frameworks, norms and standards. Oversee the preparation of the User Asset
Management Plan (U-AMP), Business Cases, and Project Briefs. Strengthen
interdepartmental and intergovernmental collaboration. Lead infrastructure
modelling and spatial planning for the health sector. Coordinate infrastructure
inputs to the Department’s Strategic Plan, Annual Performance Plan, and
Infrastructure Programme Management Plan. Manage policy development and
technical inputs to infrastructure prioritisation models. Implement systems for
monitoring, evaluation, and post-occupancy assessments. Build internal
capacity, lead high-performing teams, and foster stakeholder trust and
engagement. Contribute to ethical governance by implementing risk
management, aligning spending with PFMA/DORA, and fostering
performance-based grant strategies.
ENQUIRIES : Dr L Angeletti-Du Toit at (071) 7947771
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
CLOSING DATE : 14 November 2025
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who have previously applied need not to apply again.
201
OTHER POSTS
POST 39/323 : PHARMACEUTICAL POLICY SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 2
Chief Directorate: Emergency & Clinical Services Support
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 093 611 per annum
Grade 2: R1 193 706 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Medicine Management, Laboratory and Blood Services Support (Cape Medical
Depot)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic qualification accredited with the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC
as a Pharmacist. Registration with the Professions Council: Current registration
with the SAPC as a Pharmacist. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 3 years
appropriate experience after registration as a Pharmacist with the SAPC.
Grade 2: A minimum of 11 years appropriate experience after registration as a
Pharmacist with the SAPC. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to
travel and stay overnight for extended periods. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Advanced clinical knowledge
including rational medicine use and antimicrobial stewardship. In depth
knowledge of pharmaceuticals listed in the Primary, Adult and Paediatric
Hospital Levels and Tertiary/Quaternary National Essential Medicine Lists.
Sound knowledge of the Pharmacy Act 53 of 1974, the Medicines and Related
Substances Act 101 of 1965, and the Public Finance Management Act 66 of
1995. In depth knowledge of legislation and national policies relating to
Pharmaceutical Services In depth knowledge of legislation and national policy
relating to People Management and People Development as it relates to
pharmacy personnel Knowledge of financial prescripts and the ability to set up
and monitor budgets. Advanced analytical, Big Data management, research,
report writing and computer (Full MS Office Suite) skills are required. Advanced
training, verbal and written communication, organizational and interpersonal
skills.
DUTIES : Serve as the appointed provincial antimicrobial stewardship champion and
perform all related functions to strengthen rational use of antimicrobials in the
province. Monitor provincial clinical guideline adherence and develop
strategies to improve rational prescribing patterns and patient medicine use.
Develop strategies to improve ward pharmacy. Serve as the Secretariat of the
Pharmacy Medicine Management Committee (PMMC) to respond to service
needs and act as liaison between relevant stakeholders. Support workforce
management for the provision of a provincial pharmaceutical service by
developing and maintaining staffing norms for pharmaceutical personnel,
providing support to People Management in the appointment of Pharmacy
Interns, Community service Pharmacists (CSPs) and Pharmacists’ Assistants
and managing their orientation and training and perform monitoring and
evaluation functions. Manage Skills Enhancement projects for pharmaceutical
staff, health care workers and students.
ENQUIRIES : Ms H Hayes Tel No: (021) 484-5678
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may undergo a Competency Based Assessment. The pool of applicants may
be considered for other vacant Pharmaceutical Policy Specialist posts within
the Chief Director Emergency & Clinical Services Support, for a period of 3
months from date of advert provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/324 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (ANAESTHESIOLOGY) (X8 POSTS)
(4 Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
202
Medical Practitioner. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirement of the job: A
valid (code B/EB) driver’s licence. Commuted overtime is compulsory.
Emergency and after hour call cover. Each Registrar will be appointed in a
specific training hospital but will be required to work across the distributed
training platform. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Diploma in Anaesthesia
[DA(SA)] successfully completed. Effective leadership & interpersonal skills.
Appropriate and sufficient clinical experience since obtaining the degree of
MBChB. Knowledge and practical skills. Appropriate Anaesthesiology
experience.
DUTIES : Provision of safe medical care to patients in the operating theatres and
Intensive Care Units at Tygerberg Hospital and associated training hospitals.
Provide clinical support to other medical and surgical disciplines at Tygerberg
Hospital and associated training hospitals. Perform onsite after-hours duties as
per call roster. Supervise and support medical interns and medical officers
providing medical care on the service platform. Attend teaching program
activities, tutorials and assessments as part of the registrar training program.
Assist with the training of interns, medical students, nursing staff and
paramedics. Learn critical skills required of an Anaesthesiology specialist.
Involvement in research/audits relating to Anaesthesia, Critical Care, Pain and
Peri-operative Medicine.
ENQUIRIES : Prof S Chetty Tel No: (021) 938-9226
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Appointment as
Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 4 years. It may become
necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during their
period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to any
decision being implemented. Registrars will function across health facilities, as
per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a student be
discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Registrar also discontinues.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be
on contract. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension
benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions.
The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this
regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will
be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch
University according to the yearbook and guidelines. “Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for a change in
registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/325 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (OBSTETRICS AND GYNAECOLOGY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
203
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Commuted overtime contract is compulsory, as well as the
ability to work after-hours. Willingness to travel to drainage hospitals for
outreach work. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience and
skills in obstetrics and gynaecology care to manage a large labour ward at
regional hospital level. Ability to work in a team and with all levels of staff. Must
be able to do a Caesarean section safely and without supervision. Candidates
should be able to do a basic gestational ultrasound scan. Computer literacy in
MS Office mandatory.
DUTIES : Clinical management of all non-acute and emergency O&G presentations to
the emergency centres (labour ward and gynae EC). Managing critically ill
patients including resuscitation. Supervision and teaching of students, interns
and midwives. Provide an efficient administration service regarding all clinical
and non-clinical matters and medico-legal work. Provide guidance and
leadership towards the realisation of strategic goals and objectives of the
department. Ensure a cost-efficient service at clinical level with regards to
laboratory services, blood, medicine, consumables, and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Prof GS Gebhardt Tel No: (021) 938- 4638
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates
may be subjected to a competency test. “Candidates who are not in possession
of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will
only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of
the interview. This concession is only applicable to health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for a change in registration
status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/326 : REGISTRAR (ORTHOPAEDICS)
(5-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirements of the job:
Commuted overtime is compulsory. Participate in the after-hours call system. -
Completion of CMSA 1B Intermediate examination. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to work under pressure as part of a clinical team.
Research interest and experience. ATLS, basic surgical skills and other
courses. Appropriate and sufficient clinical experience since obtaining the
degree of MBChB and after completion of internal rotations Completion of
community service.
DUTIES : Teaching. Leadership. Research. Clinical Governance. Clinical Service:
Patient care and assisting in theatre.
204
ENQUIRIES : Ms M van der Berg, email: marilyn.vanderberg@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). -Consideration will be given to existing
employees who are already on higher salary packages to retain their existing
salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled to receive pay
progression. Appointment as a Registrar will be for a maximum contract period
of 5 years. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension benefits
as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their registrarship
should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions. Should
registration with the HEI as a student be discontinued for any reason the
appointment of Registrar also discontinues. Applicants must indicate whether
they have bursary obligations. Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the
department’s ecosystem framing of its training platform. Accordingly, all
registrar appointments may be called upon to work across this platform and
may include rotations at Metro West and Rural East hospitals. This includes
Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, New Somerset Hospital,
Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and George Provincial
Hospital. -Please ensure that you attach an updated CV. -The Department of
Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with
disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this regard will be
appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will be identified
as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a representative
Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference will be given to
SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document. Registrars will
be required to register as post-graduates with University of Cape Town
according to the yearbook and guidelines.” -The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/327 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (PAEDIATRIC MEDICINE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Mitchell’s Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
205
minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Post
community service experience in Paediatrics and/or Neonatology is essential.
Applicants must have a valid APLS/PALS certification. Participation in
commuted overtime is compulsory. Willingness to participate in audits,
research and quality improvement projects. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to work in a professional multi-disciplinary team. Initiative, teamwork,
planning, organizing and coordination demonstrated in quality improvement
projects or community projects relevant to child health. Excellent interpersonal,
administrative, communication, analytical and problem-solving skills. Display
empathy for patients and their families, promote advocacy and facilitate holistic
treatment. Good time management.
DUTIES : To render a comprehensive clinical service in Paediatrics and Neonatology
covering day-time work and after-hours duties. To provide inpatient and
outpatient care, including clinical teaching, administration, management and
research. Support and provide clinical service in the Paediatric Emergency
Centre. Attend to Paediatric referrals from the Emergency Centre and assist in
immediate clinical care for children in this area. Use and update protocols and
guidelines to provide a cost-effective service.
ENQUIRIES : Dr G Spittal Tel No: (021) 377-4330
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status). The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/328 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (OTORHINOLARYNGOLOGY)
(5/8TH POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R838 659 per annum
Grade 2: R956 895 per annum
Grade 3: R1 108 263 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Otorhinolaryngology. Registration with the Professions
Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in
Otorhinolaryngology. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Otorhinolaryngology. Grade 2: A minimum
of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with
the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Otorhinolaryngology.
Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist
after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in
Otorhinolaryngology. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to render high
quality surgery for Tertiary and Secondary Otorhinolaryngology Head and Neck
patients. Ability to render high quality surgery for pertinent elective
otorhinolaryngology surgery. Ability to initiate own research projects and
supervise research projects. Ability to render high quality teaching and training
in ENT to registrars, medical officers, interns, medical students and other
health care workers. Involvement in academic activities of Otorhinolaryngology
206
Department. Strong ethical principles and relevant clinical and counselling
skills. Computer literacy. Leadership-, interpersonal- and organisational skills.
High level of competencies in the field of secondary, tertiary, elective, and
emergency ENT surgery. This would include Head and Neck surgery.
DUTIES : Definitive care of ENT patients and quality assurance of clinical services in
ENT. Deal with expected share of patient workload per day, providing the best
possible level of care and resulting in satisfied patients. Support more junior
staff in their patient management. Leading and participating in assessment and
definitive care of ENT cases. Teaching and training. Informal teaching in the
clinical areas and/or formal lectures, seminars and tutorials. Participates in the
academic program, congresses, and workshops. -Research and data capture.
Supervision of data collection. Data management and reporting of data audits.
Creating opportunities for research and data utilization for MMed studies.
Writing articles for publication. Clinical governance and administrative
management. Supervision and performance of administrative tasks, related to
submission of reports, statistics, data collection, staff administration and
medico-legal documentation. Clinical governance of ENT surgery. Training
Workshops, Courses and Congresses of highest possible standard to provide
Continuing Medical Education for GP’s, ENT trainees and qualified Specialists.
ENQUIRIES : Dr J Grobbelaar Tel No: (021) 938- 9318
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time registration as
Medical Specialist in Otorhinolaryngology with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/329 : ARCHITECT PRODUCTION GRADE A TO C (CONTRACT POST)
Directorate: Tygerberg PPP Unit
SALARY : Grade A: R761 157 per annum
Grade B: R866 304 per annum
Grade C: R976 029 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs)
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (9 Lower Burg Street, Cape Town CBD)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Bachelor’s degree in architecture or
relevant qualification. Registration with a professional council: Registration as
Professional Architect with the South African Council for the Architectural
Professions (SACAP). Experience: Grade A: At least 3 years’
appropriate/recognisable experience in this profession after qualification.
Grade B: At least 14 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in this
profession after registration with SACAP as a professional. Grade C: At least
26 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in this profession after
registration with the SACAP as a professional. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to travel within the Western
Cape, and occasionally, nationally. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy (CAD Software, MS Office and MS Excel). Experience in and
understanding of the design and construction of complex buildings with specific
reference to hospitals. Experience in the preparation of reports, drawings,
submissions and presentations in English. All different types and forms of
construction contracts. Knowledge of the following legislation: Construction
Industry Development Board Act of 2000 and Regulations. PFMA/Division of
Revenue Act /Treasury Regulations/Practice Notes/ Instructions/Circulars/
Construction Procurement System. Specifically: Treasury Regulation 16
(TR16), issued under the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) for national
and provincial governments. Provincial/Departmental Supply Chain
Management Policies. Promotion of Access to Information Act of 2000.
Promotion of Administrative Justice Act of 2000. Expanded Public Works
Programme. Broad Based Black Empowerment Act of 2003. Preferential
Procurement Act of 2000 and Regulations. Architectural Profession Act of
207
2000. Engineering Profession Act of 2000. Architects Profession Act of 2000.
National Building Standards Act of 1977 and Regulations. Government
Immovable Asset Management Act of 2007. Occupational Health and Safety
Act and Regulations of 1993. Project and Construction Management
Professions Act of 2000. Health Act and Regulations, Act 61 of 2003. National
Environmental Management Act of 1998. Relevant Provincial Land
Administration Legislation. ISO standards. Construction Procurement
Standard as Issued by CIDB.
DUTIES : Infrastructure Programme and Project Planning in line with PPP Regulations.
Infrastructure Programme and Project Implementation and Monitoring
Infrastructure Project Commissioning Infrastructure Programme and Project
Evaluation Research/literature studies to keep up with new technologies,
including interaction with relevant professional development boards/councils.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Koort, email: Thorpe.koorts@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who have previously applied need not to apply again.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/330 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR GRADE 1 (COMPREHENSIVE
HEALTH)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : PHC Support & Outreach, Mossel Bay Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. (This dispensation is only applicable for posts of Clinical Programme
Coordinator where it is an inherent requirement of the post, incumbent to
maintain registration with the SANC). Registration with the Professions
Council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Experience: A minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and
willingness to drive government vehicles and mobile clinic (for outreach
purposes) and travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal
relations, leadership and communication skills (verbal and written). Knowledge
of the Maternal-Child-Women’s-Health, HIV/AIDS/STI/TB, Chronic Disease
Management and Community Orientated Primary Care (COPC) Computer
literacy (MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Ability to work independently and
in a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Provide comprehensive support (CBS, FBS, HAST) for the Mossel Bay Sub-
district Primary Health Care management teams to enable implementation and
realization of Western Cape and Garden Route District Health plans. Support
the implementation and integration of Community Orientated Primary Care
(COPC). Link, monitor, evaluate and coordinate COPC partners including but
not limited to, funded Non-Profit Organisations (NPOs) and Private Provider
Partners Support Mossel Bay Sub-District to achieve programmatic
deliverables including Maternal and Child-Women-Health, First 1000 days
strategies, HIV/AIDS/STI/TB, Mental Health, Chronic Disease Management,
and realisation of ideal clinic status. Monitor and evaluate programme goals
and targets including the collection, validation, interpretation and analysis of
statistical data.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Lamprecht Tel No: (044) 604 - 6106
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written assessment. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
208
POST 39/331 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: PAEDIATRICS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A
post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year accredited with
the SANC in Child Nursing Science. Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the South African Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in Nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific specialty after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic qualification in Child Nursing Science. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts, night duty, overtime, public
holidays and weekends. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy
(MS Word, Excel, Power point and Outlook). Knowledge of relevant legislation
and policies of the Department of Health Western Cape. Implement skills to
plan and organise the service by problem solving and decision making. Ability
to function independantly, as well as in a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good
patient care. Leadership towards the realisation of strategic goals and
objectives in the Pediatric Department. Ability to communicate effectively (both
written and verbal).
DUTIES : Ensure quality patient care regarding the identification of nursing needs, the
planning & implementation of nursing care plans and the education of nursing
personal as Professional Nurse in Paediatric department. Render and
supervise specialized clinical nursing care and support staff with surgical and
medical procedures. Utilise human, material and physical resources efficiently
and effectively. Maintain & promote professional growth/ethical standards and
development of self and others. Display of core values of the Department of
Health & Wellness in the WCH. In the execution of duties, while practising
within the legislation, regulations and protocols applicable to the public service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B. Fourie Tel No: (021) 860-2696/2522
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Paediatric Nursing Science with the South African
Nursing Council. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within (Paarl Hospital), for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/332 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: FIRST STAGE
LABOUR, HRTG, ICU AND OPD) (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Mowbray Maternity Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Post-basic nursing
qualification, with duration of at least 1 year, accredited with SANC in Advanced
Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science. Registration with the Professions
Council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife.
209
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal
Nursing Science after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirement of the job: Work within a shift system.
Willingness to perform overtime when required. Willing to work public holidays,
after-hours, night duty and weekend cover when required. Assist with relief
duties and partake in overall specialised area functions, i.e. Team building,
supervision, training, workshops and updates. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in Microsoft package. Knowledge and
insight of relevant legislation and policy related to this nursing speciality within
the public sector. Ability to promote quality patient care through the setting,
implementation and monitoring of standards. Effective communication,
interpretation, leadership, decision-making and conflict resolution and
organisational skills.
DUTIES : Provide optimal, holistic specialised nursing care with set standards and within
a professional/legal framework. Assist in managing the utilization and
supervision of all resources effectively. Assist in effective management and
utilization of human and financial resources to ensure optimal operational
functions. To assist in the planning and co-ordination of training and research
effectively. Assist to organize a cost-effective service daily and provide support
to supervisor and management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Dyers Tel No: (021) 659-5570
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates will be subjected to a written and oral assessment. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science. The
pool of applicants will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided
that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/333 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: DENTAL THEATRE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Oral Health Centre, Tygerberg/Mitchell’s Plain Platform
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic
nursing qualification with a duration of at least one year in Medical and Surgical
Nursing Science: Operating theatre technique, which allows registration with
SANC. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in
Operating Theatre after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid drivers’ licence.
Willingness to work overtime and relief Nurse Manager when the need arises.
Willingness to assist at other facilities within the Oral Health Services when the
need arises. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication,
interpersonal relationships, exceptional leadership and conflict resolution skills.
210
Ability to function/make decisions independently and as part of a multi-
disciplinary team. Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook.
Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of the Department of Health
Western Cape. Appropriate knowledge and experience in operating theatre.
Knowledge of the Major Incident Disaster plan. Maintain professionalism and
the display of core values of the Department of Health WCG in the execution
of duties, while practicing within the legislation, regulations and protocols
applicable to the public service.
DUTIES : Provide optimal, holistic specialized nursing care within set standards and
professional/legal framework within the Operating Theatre. Ensure the
promotion of Quality Assurance, Infection Control and Prevention
&Occupational Health & Safety within the Department. Ensure accurate record
keeping for statistical and legal purposes. Assist with the coordination and
implementation of the Ideal Hospital Framework in the Operating theatre and
the institution for better quality patient care. Support the Unit
manager/Operational manager in the co-ordination, organising and control
over the activities, personnel, equipment, and stores in the unit to utilize
human, material and physical resources efficiently and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Dubase Tel No: (021) 937-3083 / Ms N Mfecane Tel No: (021) 937-3200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in the post basic qualification in: Medical and Surgical Nursing
Science: Operating Theatre Nursing. -The pool of applicants will be considered
for other posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services for a period
of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/334 : INDUSTRIAL TECHNICIAN (HEAD OF UNIT: X-RAY/ IMAGING) (CLINICAL
ENGINEERING)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: National Diploma in Mechanical of
Mechatronic Engineering (T; S or N stream), or registration as an Engineering
Technician with the Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) in terms of the
Engineering Profession of South Africa Act (Act 46 of 2000). Experience:
Appropriate extensive and advanced practical experience after qualification on
Medical Imaging equipment repairs like Ultrasound units, CT scanners, Mobile
x-ray units, etc. Proof should be supplied of where practical experience was
obtained and on what equipment. Management experience is required, and
proof of managerial functions performed shall be supplied. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid driver's license and own reliable transport to
perform standby and call-out duties if and when required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Proven knowledge of health technology principles. Ability to
compile technical specifications for medical equipment, especially Imaging
Equipment. Excellent ability to do fault finding on equipment. Good written and
verbal skills. Proven experience computer literacy (i.e. MS Word, Excel).
Product specific technical training.
DUTIES : Carry out advanced maintenance, repairs, calibration, modifications and
installations of medical equipment. Train junior technicians and users on
equipment. Ensuring that the equipment meets legal and safety requirements
of the manufacturers and statutory bodies. Perform all administrative functions
as required by the Clinical Engineering Department, managers and health
Technology prescripts while ensuring compliance with the Occupational Health
and Safety Act of 1993. Liaison with hospital and private sector staff while
reporting to the Control Technician in charge of the Clinical Engineering
Department at Tygerberg Hospital. Manage the X-ray workshop, including
211
contract covering medical equipment and be willing to work within all Clinical
Engineering disciplines. Advanced knowledge of managing, planning and
organizing maintenance schedules.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M. Rossouw Tel No: (021) 938-4634
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test on day of interview.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/335 : DISTRICT FLEET MANAGER (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services, Garden Route and Metropole Districts
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade12 Certificate with appropriate Fleet
Management experience. Experience: Extensive management experience in
Fleet management services including competency in Fleetman and Vehicle
Tracking management software or similar. Good supervisory skills.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Technical knowledge to identify
shortcomings on vehicles. Good administrative, human resource management,
financial management, leadership, project management, communication,
interpersonal and conflict resolution skills. Computer literacy and competency
in Excel, Word, PowerPoint. Knowledge of Fleet management and tracking
systems. Knowledge of Government Motor Transport Circular 3/2019 and
vehicle maintenance. Knowledge of Standard Operational Procedures on Fleet
Management services.
DUTIES : Attend to emergency breakdowns, including after-hours repairs, accidents
(EMS Fleet) and inter-departmental accident investigations and standby/call
out duties as required. Supervise and assist with repairs and maintenance.
Training of sub-ordinates. Overall supervision, administrative duties and cost-
effective management of mechanical workshop. Minimizing fleet downtime and
maximizing cost efficiency. Assisting with driving programs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr H Steenkamp Tel No: (023) 347-3360
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be expected to undergo a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/336 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (SYSTEM
MANAGER: CLINICAL SYSTEMS)
Directorate: Health Information Technology
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, HIS Application Support Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year Diploma or Degree.
Experience: Appropriate experience of hospital administrative and clinical
processes. Appropriate experience working on Electronic Health Record
systems/modules. Appropriate working experience and knowledge of
Electronic Health Record systems / modules. Appropriate experience in
training and supporting system users. Appropriate knowledge/experience of
hospital fees and patient administration policies. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid driver’s licence. Willingness to travel to WCDHW health institutions.
Willingness to work overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication and interpersonal skills. Proven ability to work in a team
environment. Ability to provide user training and support. Accurate data
capturing skills. Computer literacy, including MS Office and MS Project.
Knowledge of Clinicom, HECTIS, eCCR and other Hospital Information System
modules. Understanding of Business Process Re-engineering. Understanding
of system maintenance and enhancement process flow. Understanding and
developing quality control processes.
DUTIES : Manage and control the Clinical systems / modules at all hospitals and clinics
in the Western Cape. Maintain and update master files, documentation, access
control, and print management. Manage and ensure updates of annual or ad
hoc regulatory changes. Liaise with HIS management, hospital IT, and other
stakeholders on clinical system matters. Provide end-user support and resolve
212
system problems for clinical systems. Update and maintain user manuals and
clinical system procedures. Develop quality control script for system changes
and manage test processes with formal outcome reporting. Develop system
release notice for system changes and ensure user awareness. Identify
training needs and provide training to users and core trainers. Assist with data
quality assurance. Manage compliance of system release logs and exception
reports. Drive business process re-engineering in clinical system-related areas
across hospitals. Support development and administration of new clinical
system modules. Manage Integrated Health Solution System Controllers.
Collaborate with the Finance and clinical documentation team to ensure
compliance of Clinical systems to hospital fee and patient administration policy
and manage new enhancement requests to deployment where accepted.
Provide ad hoc support to the Deputy Director: eHealth Systems.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Maharaj Tel No: (021) 938-6513
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to undergo competency assessments/proficiency
tests.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/337 : EMS STATION MANAGER GRADE 3 TO 6 (HEALTHNET)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : Grade 3: R397 308 per annum
Grade 4: R480 108 per annum
Grade 5: R562 119 per annum
Grade 6: R624 288 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services, Central Karoo
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 3: Successful completion of the
Immediate Life Support (ILS) that allows registration with the HPCSA as
Ambulance Emergency Assistant (AEA). Grade 4: Successful completion of
the Emergency Care Technician Course (ECT) that allows registration with the
HPCSA as Emergency Care Technician (ECT). Grade 5: Successful
completion of the Critical Care Assistant course (CCA) or National Diploma that
allows registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic. Grade 6: Successful
completion of the B-Tech Degree that allows registration with the HPCSA as
an Emergency Care Practitioner (ECP). Experience: Grade 3: Minimum of 3
years’ experience after registration with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa as Ambulance Emergency Assistant (AEA). Grade 4: Minimum of
3 years’ experience after registration with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa as Emergency Care Technician (ECT). Grade 5: Minimum of 3
years’ experience after registration with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa as a Paramedic. Grade 6: Minimum of 3 years’ experience after
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as Emergency
Care Practitioner (ECP). Registration with the Professions Council: Grade 3:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as an AEA.
Grade 4: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as
an ECT. Grade 5: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa as a Paramedic. Grade 6: Registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa as an ECP. Inherent requirement of the job: Current
registration as an AEA, ECT, Paramedic or ECP. Valid code C1 driver’s license.
Valid Code 10 Professional driver’s permit. Physical and mental fitness as an
Emergency Services practitioner. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent
knowledge of all levels of emergency care protocols. Good communication and
interpersonal skills. Computer literacy in the MS Office package. Report writing
skills.
DUTIES : Manage pre-hospital Emergency Care Services within the geographic area and
respond to incidents when required. Ensure that the maintenance of
Emergency vehicles and equipment are managed effectively and efficiently.
Maintain responsibility for the audit compliance with regards to Supply Chain
Management and Human Resource matters, inclusive of the Station’s budget
allocation and facilitation of account payments for goods and services.
Effectively manage and supervise staff in relation to the Human Resource and
Labour Relations function. Ensure effective communication with regards to
meetings, workshops, debriefs, compiling stats and report writing. Effective
support to District Manager and act in management capacity when required.
213
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Jansen Tel No: (044) 802-2500 (District Manager, Central Karoo)
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates are
subjects to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Emergency Medical Services, for a period of three months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/338 : PARAMEDIC GRADE 2 TO 4 (EMS CRITICAL CARE TEAM) (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency And Clinical Support Service
SALARY : Grade 2: R397 308 per annum
Grade 3: R487 014 per annum
Grade 4: R570 267 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services, Critical Care Team
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 2: Successful completion of the
Critical Care Assistant programme or a Recognized National Diploma that
allows registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic. Grade 3: Successful
completion of the Critical Care Assistant (CCA) programme or a Recognized
National Diploma that allows registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic or B
Tech Degree that allows registration with the HPCSA as Emergency Care
Practitioner. Grade 4: Successful completion of the Critical Care Assistant
(CCA) programme or a Recognized National Diploma that allows registration
with the HPCSA as Paramedic or B Tech Degree that allows registration with
the HPCSA as Emergency Care Practitioner. Registration with the Professions
Council: Grade 2: Registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic with CCA or
National Diploma. Grade 3: Registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic with
CCA or National Diploma or ECP. Grade 4: Registration with the HPCSA as
Paramedic with CCA or National Diploma or ECP. Experience: Grade 2: 7
years after registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic (CCA). None after
registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic with National Diploma. -Grade 3:
Registered Paramedic (CCA) - 14 years after registration with the HPCSA as
Paramedic. Registered Paramedic (NDip) - 7 years after registration with the
HPCSA as a Paramedic. Registered ECP– None. -Grade 4: Registered
Paramedic (CCA) - 24 years after registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic.
Registered Paramedic (NDip) - 17 years after registration with the HPCSA as
Paramedic. Registered ECP’s -10 years after registration with the HPCSA as
an ECP. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid code C1 driver’s license. Valid
professional driver’s permit (PrDP). Physical and mental fitness. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication and interpersonal skills. Excellent
knowledge of all levels of emergency care protocols within the scope of
registration category. -Computer literacy and skills. ACLS and PALS
certifications. Previous Critical Care retrieval.
DUTIES : The primary purpose of this role: To perform advanced medical interventions,
manage complex medical emergencies, and provide interfacility transport for
critically ill or injured patients. Provide quality and efficient roadside to bedside
definitive emergency care within defined emergency time frames within and
across geographic and clinical service platforms. Make use of all
communication tools as provided by the Employer to facilitate safe
communication in relation to patient care protocols. Effectively maintaining
Admin Function: Maintained accurate patient records using electronic patient
care report (EPCR) and comply with all CCT regulatory unit standards. Patient
Care Excellence: Maintain consistently high-quality patient care standards
across the entire service by delivering continuous, effective, and holistic pre-
hospital emergency care to the Western Cape public. Clinical Leadership &
Development: Participate in 50% CCT CME sessions. Participate in 50% of
CCT clinical practical sessions. Participate in 50% of CCT Clinical discussion
214
and review/ M&M session. Uphold your CCT Portfolio of Evidence (POE). Pass
CCT Annual written exam (1x remedial). Pass CCT Annual practical exam (1x
remedial -Strategic Implementation: Promote patient-centred practices across
the full spectrum of EMS within WCGHW. Collaborated with various
stakeholders within the health ecosystem to deliver effective evidence-based
patient care. Provide strong clinical leadership throughout the organisation to
drive continuous improvement. Performance Management: Monitor service
delivery against established emergency timeframes and quality benchmarks.
Evaluate and enhance clinical practices through systematic oversight and
feedback mechanisms. Drive organisational excellence through strategic
leadership and clinical governance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Klein Tel No: (021) 508-4523 or email: Bradley.klein@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates are
subjects to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Emergency Medical Services, for a period of three months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/339 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (NEUROLOGY,
NEUROSURGERY AND PSYCHIATRY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as an
Occupational Therapist. Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Occupational Therapist. Experience: Grade 1:
None after registration with the HPCSA as Occupational Therapist in respect
of RSA qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA as Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as Occupational Therapist in respect of SA
qualified employees. A Minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Occupational Therapist in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 21 years’ relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as Occupational Therapist in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Experience in Neurology, Neurosurgery and Adult Psychiatry Occupational
therapy. Intermediate and advance seating experience. Splinting experience.
Experience in student training/supervision. Sound knowledge of relevant
national, provincial legislation and various physical conditions. Good
interpersonal, organizational, and planning abilities. Able to work well within a
team. -Good communication skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be required to deliver an effective and efficient
occupational therapy service in the above-mentioned clinical areas that may
include (but is not limited to) the following: Conducting comprehensive
assessments and occupation-based treatment. Performing basic, intermediate
and advanced seating assessments for wheelchair users. Fabrication and
prescription of various upper and lower limb splints. Measurement and
215
fabrication of pressure garments. Executing appropriate discharge plans in
accordance with departmental procedures. Independent case management
through attendance of ward-rounds and multi-disciplinary meetings (where
applicable). To cover in Psychiatry, when requested, as per operational
requirements. Contribute to management of physical resources in
Occupational Therapy Department. Provision of OT student training.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Ngemntu Tel No: (021) 938-5062
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
as Occupational Therapist with the relevant council (including individuals who
must apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/340 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Financial Admin & SCM Metro TB Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Appropriate three-year Diploma/Degree.
Experience: Appropriate experience in financial and expenditure management.
Appropriate supervisory experience. Appropriate working experience on BAS
and Logis systems. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Relevant knowledge, skills and
experience of financial systems, processes, procedures, prescripts, and
legislative framework (PFMA, NTR’s, etc) Computer literacy (MS Office,
Outlook, Word, and Excel).
DUTIES : Authorizing payments on the BAS (Basic Accounting System) and Logis
systems. Compliance monitoring including adherence to policies and feedback
to departmental internal control unit on findings. Management of assets and
liabilities accounts, processing of journals and debt management.
Management of hospital revenue and petty cash administration. Compilation
of reporting including annual financial statements, leases and 30-day payment
reporting. Human resource development, management and supervision of
personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Naicker Tel No: (021) 508-8300
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a competency test. As directed by the Department of
Public Service and Administration, applicants must note that further checks will
be conducted once they are shortlisted and that their appointment is subject to
positive outcomes on these checks, which include security clearance,
qualifications verification, criminal records and previous employment.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/341 : DRG COSTING SPECIALIST
Directorate: Management Accounting
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : (Head Office, Cape Town), Sub-Directorate: Billing System Support,
Compliance Auditing and Training (Based at Western Cape College of Nursing,
Stikland)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate four-year Diploma or three-
year Degree in health-related field or Finance related or equivalent registrable
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) or the South
African Nursing Council (SANC). Experience: Appropriate experience in case
management in public or private healthcare sector. Appropriate experience in
clinical procedural costing in South Africa. Appropriate experience with using
Uniform Patient Fee Schedule (UPFS) or equivalent. Inherent requirements of
the job: A valid Code B/EB driver’s license. Willingness to travel between
216
Health institutions. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Advanced knowledge
computer literacy skills in MS Excel and Word. Skills in research and analytical
thinking. The ability to analyse information, solve problems and to prepare
complex reports. Understanding of Hospital Fees Structure, PFMA, Hospital
Fees Policies and Procedures. Excellent interpersonal relations and conflict
resolution. The ability to work co-operatively with colleagues and stakeholders
at all levels of authority but also to work independently and unsupervised.
Ability to analyse information and work with figures to produce a cost outcome.
DUTIES : Public health care costing of high volume and high resource services across
the Western Cape Province. Perform assessment and costing of audited data
through utilization of clinical records, accounts and invoices and capture data
utilizing a data capturing tool. Assess health service utilisation to measure the
cost of comprehensive health needs of the individual client and to ensure
quality and cost-effective outcomes. Professional communication both
telephonically and in writing with all role players. Accurate record keeping and
general office and ad-hoc duties. Procedural observation and interviews to gain
costing insights.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Maritz Tel No: (021) 940-4459
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates must be prepared to do a test as part of the evaluation process.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/342 : ENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
(STORES, INVENTORY AND WAREHOUSE MANAGEMENT)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience and in-depth knowledge of
Warehouse/Stores management. Appropriate experience in a large warehouse
environment in a hospital and/or medical environment. Appropriate supervisory
experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license
and willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strong
organizational and communication skills (written and verbal). Good knowledge
of inventory management procedures and electronic materials management
systems. Ability to manage multiple priorities and work independently.
Knowledge of Syspro or any other warehouse enterprise software. Knowledge
and ability to apply the Disciplinary code. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Render an effective, efficient and economic service in all aspects of Inventory
and Warehouse Management. Liaise with End Users with regards to any
queries which may arise. Manage Inventory and Consumable stock levels and
assist in Bi-Annual Stock take process. Perform all Warehouse Management
functions to ensure the availability of inventory or consumable stock. Assist and
supervise Disposal Management functions with regards to inventory and
expired/redundant Inventory and consumables. Liaise with End users,
suppliers/service providers and other departments regarding Supply Chain
matters. Provide supervisory guidance and assistance to Administrative
Officers. Manage the performance and development of own staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Adonis Tel No: (021) 938-4016
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlised
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/343 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: (FINANCE), FORENSIC
PATHOLOGY SERVICES, (SCM)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town, Forensic Pathology Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3 year National Diploma or
Degree in Finance / Supply Chain Management / Public Administration.
Experience: Appropriate supervisory experience. Appropriate experience in
Public Service Supply Chain Management. Appropriate experience in the
217
procurement of Goods and Services and Asset Management. Appropriate
experience in system functions, BAS, Logis and Electronic Procurement
Solutions (ePS). Appropriate experience in a Public Service Finance
environment. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid driver’s licence (Code
B/EB). May be required to work overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer Literacy in Microsoft Package (Microsoft Word, Microsoft Outlook,
Microsoft Excel). Ability to work independently as well as in a team. Ability to
work under pressure and meet deadlines. Organisational, managerial,
leadership skills and an aptitude for working with financial figures. Appropriate
knowledge of relevant Finance prescripts, Supply Chain Management
prescripts, departmental policies, delegations and procedures. Strong people
management and supervisory skills, ability to work in a team context and
motivate team members. Knowledge of PFMA, Finance instructions, Provincial
and National Treasury regulations, as well as Accounting Officer System. Ability
to communicate clearly and discreetly in person and writing.
DUTIES : Ensure an effective and comprehensive Supply Chain Management service is
rendered to the Directorate. Effective maintenance of assets of the Directorate.
Effective Management of Finance and Expenditure Control and Fleet
Management. Efficient support to the Manager of the Component. Efficient
Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. JJ Small, email: (Jabriel.Small@westerncape.gov.za)
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a practical assessment. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Forensic Pathology Service, Head Office, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/344 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A (GENERAL)
Chief Directorate Rural Health Services
SALARY : R382 047 per annum
CENTRE : Helderberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Trade Test Certificate.
(General). Experience: 5 years’ experience as an Artisan after obtaining the
Trade Test Certificate. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid driver’s licence
(Code B/EB) and willing to travel throughout the Western Cape. Do standby
duties and emergency callouts as required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Competency in Supervisory and Management skills Sound interpersonal and
good verbal and written communication skills. Be conversant with the
requirements of the Machinery and Occupational Health and Safety Act.
Computer literacy (MS Office and MS Excel). Conversant with disciplinary
actions.
DUTIES : Supervise staff in Workshop and produce designs and objects with material
and equipment according to job specifications and standards and provide and
assistance to Artisans and other workshop staff. Carry out technical
investigations and surveys, develop repair solutions to plant, equipment and
maintenance problems and render technical advice and ensure quality
assurance of all work performed Repair equipment, facilities, plants and
buildings according to standards including the hub clinics. Keep register of all
work done, keep control of job cards and compile and submit reports as
required. Ensure the adherence is given to the Occupational Health and Safety
act, Perform administrative duties and assist with personnel progress reports.
Assist with the ordering, procurement and control of maintenance material and
equipment (Validating quotations, writing specifications). Planning and décor
of new installations and alterations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. J Julies Tel No: (021) 850-4738
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant Artisan Foreman post within the
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a practical/written assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
218
POST 39/345 : SOCIAL WORKER GRADE 1 TO 4
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R325 200 per annum
Grade 2: R397 119 per annum
Grade 3: R477 564 per annum
Grade 4: R585 441 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital, Khayelitsha Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification as a Social Worker
that allows for registration with the South African Council for Social Service
Professionals (SACSSP). Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP) as Social Worker. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience in Social Work after
registration as a Social Worker with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate experience
in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions. Grade 4: A minimum of 30 years
appropriate experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with
the South African Council for Social Service Professions. Inherent requirement
of the job: Willingness to work overtime when required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in Microsoft Office package (MS word,
Excel, and PowerPoint and e-mail (Outlook). Knowledge and insight of relevant
legislation and policy related to social work service in the public sector. Good
report writing, interpersonal, leadership and planning skills. Ability to work
independently and within an interdisciplinary team to achieve functional
outcomes for the clients. Knowledge and understanding of illness and disease,
human behaviour, and social systems within a hospital setting.
DUTIES : Provision of comprehensive client-centered clinical social work services in the
hospital setting, with regard to care, support, and protection of vulnerable
individuals, groups, families, and communities, to ensure safe discharge plans.
Deliver an accountable service through the application of Social Work
administrative processes. Effective networking with the multi-disciplinary team
as well as relevant external role players. Keep up to date with new
developments in social work and welfare fields. Utilize and manage resources.
Support social auxiliary workers and volunteers. Participate in the training and
development of staff. Assist with the achievement of the departmental and
organizational goals. Perform all the administrative functions required of the
job.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Serfontein Tel No: (021) 902-8061
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This
concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the first
time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.The pool of
applicants will be considered for other Social Worker posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/346 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
(PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Personnel and Human Resource
Management as applicable in a staff office. Appropriate Supervisory
experience. Appropriate experience in OSD as well as the pay progression
prescripts. Appropriate experience in all aspects of personnel and salary
219
administration. Appropriate experience of PERSAL and the relevant functions.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer Literacy. Good communication
skills (written and verbal). Good numeracy skills. Knowledge of the overtime
system.
DUTIES : The management and supervision of staff office with a very high workload,
which are responsible for all personnel and related matters. Supervise, plan
and co-ordinate the section with regards to the relevant policies, procedures,
prescripts with regard to personnel, salary, leave. termination and
administration in general as applicable in a staff office. Responsible for the
monitoring and evaluation of staff in terms of the Staff Performance
Management Systems (SPMS/PERMIS). Act as revisor of PERSAL work.
Completion of ad-hoc tasks for example the answering of audit reports. Provide
in-service training of personnel within the relevant section. Application of the
OSD and pay progression system. Provide assistance to clients, personnel,
management and supervisors.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Samson Tel No: (021) 938-5033
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/347 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (NURSING GENERAL) (MALE
WARD)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital, Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing.
Inherent requirements of the job: To work shifts including weekends, public
holidays and night duty. It will be expected of the incumbent to rotate within the
hospital. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Nursing Care
processes and procedures of the Nursing Act. Problem solving, decision-
making, and good interpersonal skills. Report writing skills. Health promotion
and team building.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(Clinical practice/quality patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria,
and indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and
health care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and
health care. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human, material, and physical resources efficiently and
effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MM Luphondo Tel No: (021) 902-8010/57
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. "Candidates,
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before of the interview. This concession is only applicable on
health professionals who must apply for the first time for registration in a
specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be
considered for other vacant Professional Nurse General posts within the Chief
Director: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
220
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/348 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING: COPC
WELLNESS PROGRAM)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : PHC Support and Outreach, Oudtshoorn Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
degree/diploma in nursing) that allows registration with the South African
Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Registration with the
Professions Council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Experience: Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
10 years appropriate recognisable experience after registration as Professional
Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate recognisable experience after registration as Professional Nurse
with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work after hours and travel if necessary to meet operational
requirements. Willingness to provide wellness service within the Oudtshoorn
Sub District. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to travel.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent communication skills (verbal and
written) with community and other stakeholders’ engagement and facilitation
skills. Knowledge of relevant legislation, policies including Health care 2030,
Sustainable Development Goals, 1st 1000 days. Excellent planning and
organisational skills in Community Health Care, programs and services.
Computer literate in Microsoft office programs. Ability to work independently
and in a multi – disciplinary team as a supervisor.
DUTIES : External interface management by planning, delivered and implementation of
wellness initiatives and interventions with support from internal stakeholders to
implement community orientated primary care. Intersectoral interface
management with strong organisational linkages and partnerships with outside
stakeholders, sectors, departments, NGOs and community structures. Lead
and co-ordinate scheduled wellness activities for men, women, adolescents,
and youth with a focus on the 1st 1000 Days initiative towards building healthy
communities. Delivered wellness activities in the specific communities with a
focus on Western Cape on Wellness (WoW!) to support an integrated approach
in managing chronic conditions e.g. Diabetes, hypertension, TB, HIV, mental
health. Delivered and support the collection, collation, interpreting of health
data for reporting, monitoring and evaluation purposes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NC Jackson Tel No: (044) 203-7205
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be requested to undertake practical test. “Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status”. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/349 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (NEUROLOGY,
NEUROSURGERY AND PSYCHIATRY) (6/8TH POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R297 924 per annum
Grade 2: R347 955 per annum
Grade 3: R407 325 per annum
221
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as an
Occupational Therapist. Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Occupational Therapist. Experience: Grade 1:
None after registration with the HPCSA as Occupational Therapist in respect
of RSA qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA as Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as Occupational Therapist in respect of SA
qualified employees. A Minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Occupational Therapist in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 21 years’ relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as Occupational Therapist in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Experience in Neurology, Neurosurgery and Adult Psychiatry Occupational
therapy. Intermediate and advance seating experience. Splinting experience.
Experience in student training/supervision. Sound knowledge of relevant
national, provincial legislation and various physical conditions. Good
interpersonal, organizational, and planning abilities. Able to work well within a
team. Good communication skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be required to deliver an effective and efficient
occupational therapy service in the above-mentioned clinical areas that may
include (but is not limited to) the following: Conducting comprehensive
assessments and occupation-based treatment. Performing basic, intermediate
and advanced seating assessments for wheelchair users. Fabrication and
prescription of various upper and lower limb splints. Measurement and
fabrication of pressure garments. Executing appropriate discharge plans in
accordance with departmental procedures. Independent case management
through attendance of ward- rounds and multi-disciplinary meetings (where
applicable). To cover in Psychiatry, when requested, as per operational
requirements. Contribute to management of physical resources in
Occupational Therapy Department. Provision of OT student training.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Ngemntu Tel No: (021) 938-5062
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
as Occupational Therapist with the relevant council (including individuals who
must apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/350 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST BASIC) GRADE 1 TO 3 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R264 750 per annum
Grade 2: R306 411 per annum
Grade 3: R330 540 per annum
CENTRE : Crossroads CDC (X1 Post)
Dr Abdurahman CDC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: A qualification that allows registration with
the SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) Institutional or Pharmacist
Assistant (Post Basic), as required by the training facility and the South African
Pharmacy Council (SAPC). Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the SAPC as Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) Institutional
or Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic). Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with the SAPC as Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic). Grade 2: A
222
minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after
registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Grade 3: A
minimum of 13 years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after
registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC.
DUTIES : Dispensing and capturing of prescriptions under supervision of pharmacist.
Counselling the patients. Receiving stock from supplier and capturing thereof.
Ordering and issuing of stock. Manufacturing of mixtures under the supervision
of the pharmacist. Support and assist pharmacist.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Roomanay Tel No: (021) 370-5000
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical
and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/351 : SPEECH THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (CHILD AN ADOLESCENT) (5/8TH
POST)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R248 271 per annum
Grade 2: R289 962 per annum
Grade 3: R339 438 per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate qualification that allows for
the required registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as practitioner in Speech Therapist and Audiologist or Speech
Therapist. Registration with the Professions Council: Current registration with
the HPCSA as a Speech Therapist and Audiologist or Speech Therapist.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as either a
Speech Therapist and Audiologist or Speech Therapist in respect of RSA-
qualified employees. One-year relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA in Speech Therapy in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. -
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as either a Speech Therapist and Audiologist or Speech therapist in
respect of SA-qualified employees. A Minimum of 11 years relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA in Speech Therapy in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service,
as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as either a Speech Therapist and
Audiologist or Speech Therapist in respect of SA-qualified employees. A
minimum of 21 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Speech Therapist and Audiologist or Speech therapist in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service,
as required in South Africa. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer
literacy (Microsoft Office, Clinicom) Knowledge related to appropriate speech
therapy screening, assessment, and treatment. Appropriate Speech Therapy
experience with Intellectual Disability and the management of dysphagia and
communication.
DUTIES : Effectively provide dysphagia and communication screening, assessment, and
management services to in-patients and out-patients in the specialist field of
Intellectual Disability as well as all other areas in psychiatry. Effectively
administer records, data and hospital information related to clients. Make
relevant referrals to the best interest of clients. Provide input into development
223
of Speech and Hearing protocols. Provide training to staff and families related
to Speech Therapy.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Jacobs Tel No: (021) 370-1105
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals
who must apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/352 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (5/8TH POST)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R248 271 per annum
Grade 2: R289 962 per annum
Grade 3: R339 438 per annum
CENTRE : Theewaterskloof PHC Support and Outreach
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an
Occupational Therapist. Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
an Occupational Therapist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as
Occupational Therapist with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees.
One-year relevant experience after registration as Occupational Therapist with
the HPCSA in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required
to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
an Occupational Therapist in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of
11 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as an
Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
an Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness
to travel in the sub-district / district to consult clients and attend meetings and
training sessions. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal,
planning and organisational skills, and computer literacy (MS Office).
Knowledge of applicable health legislation, relevant acts and policies. Ability to
adapt and work efficiently in a resource-constrained environment and as part
of a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Clinical Occupational therapy services at health facility level, district hospital
and PHC facilities. Training of self and other staff members. Render
community-based occupational therapy service. Administrative duties,
complete documentation of all services rendered. Provide health
promotion/training and community service interventions. Render mobility
assistive device service.
ENQUIRIES : Dr RJ Liebenberg Tel No: (028) 212-1070
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be required to undergo a competency assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
224
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within the Overberg District, for a period of 3 months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/353 : PERSONNEL OFFICER (EMPLOYEE SOURCING)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha Eastern Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate or equivalent qualification.
Experience: Appropriate experience in Recruitment and Selection.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel).
Attention to details and ability to execute duties accurately and thoroughly.
Knowledge of Departmental Recruitment and Selection policy. Good
interpersonal and problem-solving skills. Good planning and time management
skills.
DUTIES : Checking adverts and capturing adverts on the S-CUBED system. Render a
recruitment and selection process and perform verification and criminal record
checks. Assist in establishment control function and confirm post details.
Perform secretarial duties before, during and after interviewing processes.
Drafting of motivations, letters of appointment and contracts. Apply knowledge
of human resource policies, procedures and directives with regard to the
recruitment and selection process. Maintain and update database and post/s
tracking sheet. Handle correspondence and enquiries. Effective support to
colleagues, supervisor, Manager, Community Day Centre’s Community Health
Centre and Hospital/s.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Weaver Tel No: (021) 360-4638 or e-mail:
Estelle.weaver@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/354 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (EPWP)
Directorate: Engineering and Technical Support Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Bellville Mobile Workshop
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Human Resource Management.
Appropriate experience of EPWP programmes. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge, training and skills of the PERSAL system (the
operation thereof). Computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel and
PowerPoint). Knowledge of PGWC filing system, postal procedures and
regulations.
DUTIES : Perform all administrative duties pertaining to Recruitment and Selection,
Personnel, Salary, leave administration & Debt Management of EPWP Interns
e.g Appointments, overtime, capturing of all leave types, RWOEE
administration, PILIR Administration, auditing of files & HR representative in
Recruitment and Selection processes. Assist staff, supervisor, management
and members of the Public regarding EPWP related matters. Maintain an
effective registry service for the component and perform registry duties e.g.
filling of HR related documents, receipt, opening and sending of post. Support
to the People Practices component with HR related processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Swartz, Tel No: (021) 918-1572
225
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/355 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Service
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha CHC, Khayelitsha Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience of Patient Admissions, including the
PHCIS System. Appropriate medical records experience in a health
environment. Inherent requirement of the job: Prepared to work 12-hour shifts
(including night duty, weekends, public holidays and overtime). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and communication skills. Computer
literacy. Ability to accept accountability, responsibility, work independently.
Ability to function and participate actively in a group.
DUTIES : Admit and update client information, schedule and maintain appointments,
register clients on appropriate systems. Timeous collection, capturing of folder
data and management of data, head counts and TB service using appropriate
data collecting systems. Record keeping, compiling of new folders, filing and
retrieving of folders, tracing of old folders, archiving and destruction of old
folders. Ensure proper management of folders at reception areas and schedule
appointments (new, follow-up and operations) on the system. Correct patient
assessment and accurate data recording. General administrative duties and
perform relief duties. Support to Supervisor/Managers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Lewela Tel No: (021) 360-5209
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant Administration Clerk: Admissions
posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3
months from date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical
and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/356 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha CHC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Health Information Management in a
health-related environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy
(MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access) Good verbal and written
communication skill. Maintain positive inter-personal relations with all
categories of staff in the execution of his/her supervisory functions. Knowledge
and experience in Departmental Health Information Systems: PHCIS, Sinjani
etc. Excellent filing, monitoring recordkeeping and training skills. Knowledge of
NIMS.
DUTIES : Collect, collate and analyse information. Daily capturing of data from all units
at facility. Compilation of daily, weekly ancapturingstics and abide to due dates.
Weekly reporting on facility stats performance. Completing and reporting of
routine monthly report. Effective recordkeeping of data and ensuring the
security and confidentiality of files and data. Assist with data management
quality monitoring. Rendering a support service to the supervisor and staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T. Lewela Tel No: (021) 360-5209
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
226
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/357 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT (X2
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Service
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Human Resource Management.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel,
Outlook, PowerPoint). Good numeracy skills. Knowledge of the Human
Resource prescripts in the Public Service. Knowledge of PERSAL. Good
interpersonal and organisational skills and the ability to function under pressure
and meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Perform all administrative duties pertaining to personnel administration, e.g.
appointments, resignations, transfers, pension administration, salary
administration, leave housing, injury on duty, debt management and verify
documents and qualifications etc. Assist with recruitment and selection
processes. Responsible for capturing transactions on PERSAL. Assist staff,
colleagues, supervisors, management and members of the public with regards
to all Human Resources and Personnel matters. Audit personnel, pension and
leave files, handle a variety of personnel enquiries (written and telephonic) and
file personnel data, policies regulations and circulars. Maintain registers, (i.e.
PILIR, RWOEE, JD’s, Appointment and Service Terminations). Effective
support service to supervisor and colleagues.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LP Du Plessis Tel No: (044) 802-4357
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within George Regional Hospital for a
period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirement, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/358 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE/ADMIN (PATIENT ADMINISTRATION
AND FEES)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accountancy as a passed subject or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate practical
experience in Hospital Fees Department (IOD, RAF, Medical Aid, State
Departments, H2 and H3 Follow-ups). Appropriate experience in Petty Cash
management. Appropriate Cashier experience in the Public Sector.
Procurement (Ordering of Stationary). Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel, Outlook) (Attach Proof).
Knowledge of PFMA Act, Treasury Regulations and Instructions and Division
of Revenue Act (DORA). Excellent interpersonal skills and the ability to
maintain confidentiality. Knowledge of Hospital Fees, Clinicom, AR, UPFS and
BAS and Logis.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient management of H2 and H3 accounts, IOD accounts,
RAF accounts, Medical Aid accounts, and State Department accounts.
Compiling and submitting of IOD accounts. Effective and efficient management
and clearance of the Intra Response and Medscheme accounts. Effective and
efficient management of Cashiers Office including petty cash. Follow up on
outstanding accounts and attend to account queries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr O Nondala Tel No: (044) 802-4512
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
227
considered for similar vacant posts within George Regional Hospital for a
period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/359 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: COLLEGE ADMINISTRATION
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : College of Emergency Care
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administrative experience at a recognised university.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license, willingness
to travel. Ability to work after hours when required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to communicate effectively. Computer literate (MS
Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Ability to collate, analyse, verify, and report data.
Ability to accept accountability and responsibility with good interpersonal skills,
and ability to maintain confidentiality, and excellent communication skills
(written and verbal). Ability to work in a team and independently.
DUTIES : Provide office administration support to the WCG College of Emergency Care.
Render administrative support for student recruitment-related duties. Provide
administrative functional support to all components of the College. Ability to
collate, analyze and report on data.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Petersen Tel No: (021) 938-4115
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be required to complete a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/360 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (NURSING RELIEF)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Mossel Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Staff Nurse with the SANC. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Staff Nurse with the SANC. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work
shifts, day and night duty and overtime. Willingness to rotate to other wards in
the facility and to work at the clinics in the Sub-district when needed.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills. Self- discipline
and motivation.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care plans. Provide basic
clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self- development. Take actions to improve
quality of nursing care. Participate in infection prevention and control.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JA Mahlangu Tel No: (044) 604-6104
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. -This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three
228
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/361 : STERILIZATION OPERATOR PRODUCTION
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchell’s Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/ grade 9 (Std 7)Experience: Appropriate experience. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts including weekends, public
holidays and night duty. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal
relations skills. Ability to work in a co-operative way within a team context.
DUTIES : Effective application of sterilisation processes and techniques and promote
adhere to infection control as well as health and safety regulations.
Decontamination, packing and sterilization of instruments linen and supplies.
Assist with cleaning and testing of sterilisation equipment, washing machine
and autoclaves. Maintain equipment in an optimum working condition and
utilisation of resources. Use autoclaves, washing machines &
equipment/consumables in a cost-effective manner. Monitor, control and
maintain adequate stock levels. Report and assist with investigation of lost
instruments, equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Geswindt Tel No: (021) 377-4410
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. As directed by the
Department of Public Service and Administration, applicants must note that
further checks will be conducted once they are shortlisted and that their
appointment is subject to positive outcomes on these checks, which include
security clearance, qualification, verification, criminal records and previous
employment. Candidates may be subjected to a competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/362 : CLEANER
Garden Route District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Mossel Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate cleaning experience in a hospital environment. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work weekends, shifts, overtime, public
holidays and night duty. Willingness to rotate in different departments
according to operational needs and requirements. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication and interpersonal skills. Appropriate
knowledge of correct methods of handling and disposal of refuse/waste
products and adherence to policy and cleaning practices. Ability to do physical
tasks and operate heavy duty cleaning and household equipment. Ability to
work under pressure and perform physically demanding tasks. Support to
housekeeping supervisor and adhere to policies and cleaning practices.
DUTIES : Responsible for cleaning duties, including sweeping, dusting, mopping,
scrubbing, polishing, refuse handling and maintenance of general neatness
and hygiene of the area. Responsible for cleaning and safe keeping of
machinery. Adhering to safety precautions and ensure adherence to
occupational health and safety policies. Render assistance to the supervisor
with general housekeeping duties such as control of cleaning and household
equipment, care of linen and serving of patient’s meals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JA Mahlangu Tel No: (044) 604-6104
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written assessment. The pool of applications will be
229
considered for vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
POST 39/363 : LAUNDRY AID (X4 POSTS)
West Coast District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Vredenburg Hospital, Saldanha Bay Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience: Appropriate
experience on handling of linen in a hospital environment. Inherent requirement
of the job: Ability to do physical hard work and stand for long hours. Willingness
to relieve in other departments when required. Willingness to work shifts,
weekends, public holidays and overtime when required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good verbal, as well as written communication skills. Must
be physically able to lift heavy objects and stay for long hours on your feet.
Must be able to do laundry duties. Knowledge of stock and infection control.
DUTIES : Ensure that wards and institutions are provided with clean linen timeously.
Assist with loading of linen in/out of laundry vehicles. Assist with delivering of
linen to different departments or wards. Collection of soiled linen from the
departments. Counting of linen daily and perform monthly stock taking. Support
supervisor and relieve in other departments when needed.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Van Vuuren Tel No: (022) 709-5096
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a competency test. No payment of any kind is required
when applying for this post. As directed by the Department of Public Service
and Administration, applicants must note that further checks will be conducted
once they are shortlisted and that their appointment is subject to positive
outcomes on these checks, which include security clearance, qualification
verification, criminal records, and previous employment.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
230