PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 43 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 21 NOVEMBER 2025
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge
and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH
IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative
action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied.
Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the
filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment
in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
AGRICULTURE A 03 - 05
CORRECTIONAL SERVICES B 06 - 12
DEFENCE C 13 - 28
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR D 29 - 34
GOVERNMENT TECHNICAL ADVISORY CENTRE E 35 - 54
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING F 55 - 60
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT G 61 - 66
MINERAL AND PETROLEUM RESOURCES H 67 - 70
NATIONAL TREASURY I 71 - 74
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE J 75 - 84
PLANNING, MONITORING AND EVALUATION K 85 - 88
PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE L 89 - 110
SPORT, ARTS AND CULTURE M 111 - 115
TRANSPORT N 116 - 117
WATER AND SANITATION O 118 - 121
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
KWAZULU NATAL P 122 - 135
LIMPOPO Q 136 - 160
NORTHERN CAPE R 161 - 162
NORTH WEST S 163 - 165
WESTERN CAPE T 166 - 203
2
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (DOA)
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. Shortlisted
applicants for the advertised vacancies will undergo two pre-entry
assessments: a practical assessment and an integrity assessment, both of
which form part of the selection criteria after the interview, the selection
committee will recommend candidates for a generic management competency
assessment, as per the Department of public Service and Administration
(DPSA) directives. The assessment will evaluate candidates’ managerial
competencies using standardised tools. NB: Please note that false or
fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will be reported to the South
African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case shall be opened.
Applications: Please submit your application before the closing date as late
applications will not be considered. Do not submit duplicate applications. If
applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for each post. Due to
high volumes, the Department will not acknowledge receipt of applications. If
you have not heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application
to be unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DOA is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
OTHER POSTS
POST 43/01 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: AGRICULTURAL TRAINING INSTITUTE REF NO:
3/3/1/07/2025
Directorate: Grootfontein Agricultural Development Institute (GADI)
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules of MMS)
CENTRE : Middelburg, Eastern Cape (Grootfontein Agricultural Development Institute)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate, a Degree in
Agriculture, Post-graduate in Education and Master Degree in Agriculture/
Master of Business administration. Postgraduate qualification in Education.
Minimum of 3 years’ experience at junior management level in Agriculture
3
Tertiary Institution. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of education and
training statutory bodies. Knowledge and understanding of Higher Education
operations. Knowledge of ATI Policies and Procedures. Knowledge of PSR &
PSA, PFMA, Labour Relations Act. Knowledge and understanding of all
relevant legislation and regulations that govern the Public Service including the
PFMA and Treasury Regulations, the Public Service Act, the Labour Relations
Act etc. knowledge and understanding of Agricultural Education and Training
Strategy of the sector. Knowledge of Government policies and priorities in
terms of Agriculture. Understanding of relevant regional conventions and
protocols. Knowledge and understanding of the white paper on the
transformation of the public service (Batho Pele). Job related skills: Assessor’s
and moderators Skills. Leadership Skills. People Management. Problem
Solving. Financial Management. Time Management. Decision-Making.
Planning and Organising. Conflict management. Communication
(Verbal/Written). Innovation. Analytical. Good interpersonal relations. Policy
analysis and development. Motivational skills. Computer skill. Report writing. A
Valid divers’ license.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of higher education & training and administration support
(Registrar). Manage the provision of further education and training. Manage
the Provision of Library Services. Ensure quality assurance in higher and
further education and training qualifications. Manage the provision of training
resources development services. Ensure effective utilization of resources such
as Human: manage training and resource development. Manage EPMDS
processes. Ensure sound labour practices. Financial: Responsibility Manager
for ATI. Prepare and monitor the budget. Ensure compliance with the PFMA
and other relevant legislative prescripts. Equipment. Manage assets/other
equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Themba Cebani Tel No: (049) 802 6605
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
DDATIrecruit072025@nda.agric.za
NOTE : African Male or Female, Coloured Male or Female, Indian Males or Female
and Persons with disability are encouraged to apply
POST 43/02 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS REF NO:
3/3/1/08/2025
Directorate: Diversity Management and Transformation Strategies
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree in Social Work or Psychology. Registration with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as a social worker or
the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA), 3 years’ supervisory
experience in Employee Health and Wellness. Valid Drivers Licence. The
incumbent must be willing to travel. Job related knowledge: Human Resource
Management legislative framework for the Public Service including: Basic
Conditions of Employment Act. Labour Relations Act. Employment Equity Act.
Public Service Regulations. Public Service Act. Employee Health and Wellness
(EHW) Legislation and Managing Performance and supervision. Job related
skills: Counselling skills. Groupwork Computer Literacy. Communication skills
(written and verbal). Interpersonal skills. Presentation skills. Conflict
Management skills. Analytical skills. Problem solving skills. Project
Management skills. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Design and coordinate employee health and wellness services and
programmes. Coordinate the provision of psychosocial, individual and
organisational wellness services. Coordinate and implement the Sports and
Recreation Management policy and nutrition initiatives. Render specialised
intervention within 24 / 72 hours in the case of crises / trauma management.
Conduct employee needs assessment and analysis for redress. Provide
support to peer counsellors. Develop workshop material EHWM. Training and
Support. Ensure compliance with statutory requirements. Compile sessional
reports. Compile DPSA reports. Operational Planning. Data capturing and
analysis. Manage the performance of direct reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A. Ferreira at 082 827 0612
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
ASDEHWrecruit082025@nda.agric.za
4
NOTE : Coloured, Indian and White Male and White female and Persons with
Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 43/03 : TRACTOR DRIVER REF NO: 3/3/1/09/2025 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Grootfontein Agricultural Development Institute
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Middelburg, Eastern Cape (Grootfontein Agricultural Development Institute)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of an NQF level 3 (Grade 10 certificate).
Minimum of 1 year of experience. Job related knowledge: Establishment of
pastures, planting and cultivation of crops. Basic calculations for mixing and
application rates of herbicides and pesticides. Calibration of planters and crop
sprayers. Functioning, maintenance and repair of farm equipment and
infrastructure. Job related skills: Operating a tractor, Operating specialised
machinery such as TLB, Bulldozer etc, Using of different implements, Planting
and harvesting of crops. Road Maintenance. A valid driver’s license (Code C1).
DUTIES : Operate a tractor with various implements (such as ploughs, Rippers, Planters,
crop sprayers etc) attached to assist with the physical execution of various
general farming activities, through inter alia: Land cultivation, Planting, Tillage,
Harvesting, Transportation of various goods, Fire fighting, fencing activities,
Mowing of lawn etc. Perform road and firebreak maintenance works and
construction related functions by using appropriate machinery. Operate a
specialised machinery (such as harvesters, drilling equipment, excavators,
sewer jetting machine etc.) Perform vehicle maintenance and administrative
support activities including inter alia the following: Ensure the safe storage,
cleaning and routine maintenance of vehicle. Ensure the safety storage,
cleaning and routine maintenance of implements. Maintain a farm vehicle
month and kilometre logbook and report accordingly. Ensure the timely
reporting of defects to mechanical workshop in order to prevent further
damage. Assist with dispensing and receiving fuel and oils.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Thabo Molekwa Tel No: (049) 802 6633 or Dr Loraine Van Den Berg Tel No:
(049) 802 6740
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
TDrecruit092025@nda.agric.za
NOTE : African Female, Indian Male or Female, White Male or Female and Persons
with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
5
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONAL SERVICES
APPLICATIONS : Indicate the reference number and position you are applying for on your
application form (Z83) and post or email your complete application to the
address as indicated below: Send your complete application to:
Eastern Cape Region: The Regional Commissioner Eastern Cape.
Recruitment Section, P/Bag X9013, East London OR hand deliver at: Moore
Street, Block E Ocean Terrace Quigney, East London, 5211 OR you can email
your application to ECHRM@dcs.gov.za. Contact persons: Ms Myataza Z
(043) 706 7866/ Ms Mgugudo N (043) 706 7882
Free State and Northern Cape Region: The Regional Commissioner Free
State and Northern Cape, Recruitment Section, P/Bag X20530, Bloemfontein,
9300 or hand deliver at: 103 Zastron Street, Agrimed Building, Bloemfontein,
9300 or you can email your application to FSNCHRM@dcs.gov.za. Contact
persons: Ms Mokuni NJ/ Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms. Ramncwana B/ Ms Radebe T
(0823069027).
Gauteng Region: The Regional Commissioner Gauteng, Recruitment
Section, P/Bag X393, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at: 1077 Forum East
Building, Arcadia Street, Hatfield or you can email your application to
GPHRM@dcs.gov.za. Contact persons: Mr Masango SS (012) 420 0173/ Ms
Feni SAP (012) 420 0173/ (012) 420 0179.
National Head Office: Department of Correctional Services, Post
Advertisement Section, Private Bag X136, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at:
124 WF Nkomo Street, Poyntons Building, Cnr WF Nkomo and Sophie De
Bruyn Street, Pretoria, 0001 (Previous: Cnr Church and Schubart Street) or
you can email your application to NationalOfficeHRM@dcs.gov.za. Contact
persons: Ms NS Khumalo (012) 305 8589.
KwaZulu Natal Region: The Regional Commissioner: Kwa-Zulu Natal,
Recruitment Section, P/Bag X9126, Pietermaritzburg, 3201 or hand deliver at:
Correctional Services, Eugene Marais Road, Napierville, Pietermaritzburg,
3201 OR you can email your application to KZNHRM@dcs.gov.za. Contact
persons: Mr Singh M (033) 355 7380/ Ms Zuma NI (033) 033 355 7367.
Limpopo, Mpumalanga And North West Region: The Regional
Commissioner Limpopo, Mpumalanga & North West, Recruitment Section,
P/Bag X142, Pretoria, 0001 OR hand deliver at: Cnr Johannes Ramokhoase
(Proes) & Paul Kruger Street, 196 Masada Building, 09th Floor, Pretoria, 0001
OR you can email your application to LMNHRM@dcs.gov.za. Contact persons:
Mr Buthelezi Z (012) 306 2037/ Ms Nomvela PM (012) 306 2033/ Ms Lekhuleni
TD (012) 306 2034.
Western Cape Region: The Regional Commissioner Western Cape,
Recruitment Section, P/Bag X14, Goodwood, 7459 or hand deliver at:
Peninsula Drive, Monte Vista, 7460 OR you can email your application to
WCHRM@dcs.gov.za. Contact persons: Ms NA Mdladlamba (021) 550 6014 /
Ms A Reddy (021) 559 7929 / Mr S Sikisazane (021) 558 0108 / Ms NC Sotyibi
(021) 558 0518.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025 @ 15h45. It is the sole responsibility of an applicant to
ensure that their application reaches DCS before the closing date.
NOTE : Candidates must comply with the minimum appointment requirements. CV’s
should be aligned to reflect one’s degree of compliance with the advert
requirements and responsibilities. Kindly Indicate The reference number on the
subject line for emailed applications. The Department of Correctional Services
reserves the right not to fill any of these advertised posts. All costs associated
with an application will be borne by the applicant. The Department of
Correctional Services is an equal opportunity employer. The Department will
take into consideration the objectives of Section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution
of the Republic of South Africa, 1996 (Act 108 of 1996) and the Employment
Equity Act, 1998 (Act 55 of 1998) in filling of these vacancies. It is our intention
to promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the
filling of these positions. In support of this strategy, applicants need to indicate
race, gender and disability status on the application form/CV. Applicants who
have retired from the Public Service with a specific determination that they
cannot be re-appointed or have been declared medically unfit will not be
6
considered. Please take note that correspondence will only be conducted with
the shortlisted candidates. If you have not been contacted within three (3)
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application is unsuccessful. Please do not call the department to enquire about
the progress of your application. Applicants must note that further checks will
be conducted once they are shortlisted and that their appointment is subject to
positive outcomes on these checks, which include security clearance, security
vetting, qualification verification and criminal records verification. Appointment
will be provisional, pending the issue of a security clearance. If you cannot get
a security clearance, your appointment will be re-considered/possibly
terminated. Fingerprints may be taken on the day of the interview. Applications:
Applications must be submitted on the Z83 form (Public Service application
form) obtainable from any Public Service department and must be completed
in full. Only a detailed CV should be attached to your application form. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies not older than
6 months of qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of
the interview. Please send a complete application for the post you apply for on
a pdf format, stating the correct reference for the position you are interested in.
Requirement for valid driver’s licence is not applicable to applicants with a
disability. A pre-entry certificate from the National School of Government (NSG)
is required for SMS posts prior to appointment. The full details of the SMS pre-
entry course are obtainable on: http://www.thensg.gov.za/training course/sms-
pre-entry-programme/. All shortlisted candidates for SMS will be subjected to
a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job,
the logistics of which will be communicated by the department. Following the
interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in
compliance with the DPSA directive on the implementation of competency-
based assessment). The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tool. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Kindly indicate
the reference number on the subject line for emailed applications.
OTHER POSTS
POST 43/04 : DEPUTY COMMISSIONER IT INFRASTRUCTURE MANAGEMENT REF
NO: HO 2025/11/11
SALARY : R1 521 414 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : National Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in
Computer Science/Information Technology or equivalent. Five [5] years’
experience at senior managerial level in a similar environment. A certificate for
entry into the Senior Management Services (SMS) obtained from the National
School of Government (NSG) should be submitted prior to appointment.
Computer literacy. Valid driver’s licence. Required Knowledge: Understanding
of Public Service Policy and related legislative framework (Public Service Act
and Regulations, SITA Act and Regulations and Public Finance Management
Act). Understanding of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Information
Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) and Control Objectives for Information
and Related Technologies (COBIT). Competencies and Attributes:
Demonstrable experience of designing and deploying large scale project i.e.
Data Centre environments, VPN, VOIP, Video Conferencing, Security
Technology etc. Competency in design and deployment of virtual
infrastructures including the supporting networking, storage, backup and
management. Project management. Strategic capability and leadership.
Service delivery innovation. Client orientation and customer focus. Financial
management. Change management. People management and empowerment.
Programme and project management. Communication skills (verbal and
written). Problem solving and decision making. Transformation management.
Influencing and impact. Policy development, facilitation, conflict management
and conceptual skills. Diversity management. Negotiation skills. Confidentiality.
Interpersonal relations and time management. Accountability. Diplomacy and
7
tact. Policy development and implementation. Good corporate governance
principles.
DUTIES : Provide direction in planning, designing and managing the IT Infrastructure and
Security Technology functions within the department. Install and accredit
solutions and changes assessing technical requirements and developing
relevant IT Infrastructure solutions (Surveillance, VPN, VOIP and Video)
conferencing. Plan and manage performance and capacity of IT resources to
ensure that cost justifiable capacity and performance are available to process
agreed workloads. Develop and maintain IT security roles and responsibilities,
policies, standards and procedures. Manage the IT infrastructure vendors and
State Information Technology Agency (SITA) to ensure successful fulfilment of
service level agreements. Provide leadership and strategic direction within the
Chief Directorate. Manage the development, implementation and monitoring of
applicable policies. Management of human resources, finances and assets.
Management of performance information.
ENQUIRIES : National Head Office: Ms N Khumalo Tel No: (012) 305 8589/ (012) 307 2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Services Act.
POST 43/05 : DIRECTOR: AREA COMMISSIONER REF NO: HO 2025/11/12
SALARY : R1 289 127 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Gauteng region: Leeuwkop
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognized by SAQA in Public
Administration/LLB/Criminology/Criminal Justice/Social Sciences or equivalent
qualification. [5] years’ experience at a middle management/senior managerial
level. A certificate for entry into the Senior Management Services (SMS)
obtained from the National School of Government (NSG) should be submitted
prior to appointment. Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Required
Knowledge: Understanding of the dynamics of the Justice Cluster.
Understanding of public service policy and related legislative framework (Public
Service Act and Regulations, Public Finance Management Act [PFMA], with
emphasis on the Correctional Service Act 111 of 1998 as amended). Relevant
experience in regulatory framework governing public service planning
processes. Extensive experience in collective bargaining mechanisms and
traceable experience in ensuring efficient and effective human resource
management. In-depth knowledge and experience of the human resources
legislation and regulatory framework. Competencies And Attributes: Strategic
capability and leadership. Service delivery innovation. Client orientation and
customer focus. Financial management. Change management. People
management and empowerment. Programme and project management.
Communication skills (verbal and written). Problem solving and decision
making. Transformation management. Influencing and impact. Policy
development, facilitation, conflict management and conceptual skills. Diversity
management. Negotiation skills. Confidentiality. Interpersonal relations and
time management. Accountability. Diplomacy and tact. Policy development and
implementation. Good corporate governance principles.
DUTIES : Responsibilities: Oversee the effective functioning of incarceration and
corrections, parole boards, corporate services, development programmes,
care services, correctional centres and community corrections within the
management area. Oversee the administration of security
systems/programmes including comprehensive risk assessments and pro-
grammes to ensure safety. Ensure the implementation and adherence to
policies and procedures within the management area. Establish and maintain
effective relationships with key stakeholders within the geographical location of
the management area. Effective management of court appearance of remand
detainees. Management of the operational risks within the management area.
Promotion of social responsibility and development of all of-fenders and
parolees subjected to community corrections. Management of performance
information. Management of human resource, finance and assets.
ENQUIRIES : National Head Office: Ms N Khumalo Tel No: (012) 305 8589/ (012) 307 2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Services Act.
POST 43/06 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CRIMINOLOGY (PRINCIPAL CRIMINOLOGIST) REF
NO: HO 2025/11/13
SALARY R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : National Head Office: Directorate: Risk Profile Management
8
REQUIREMENTS : Recognised Master’s degree (NQF level 9) in Criminology. 3-5 years relevant
experience on entry middle management level or similar environment.
Background in working in a behavioural assessment environment. Computer
literate. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes Negotiation,
communication, analytical and report writing skills. Knowledge and ability to
conduct research. Facilitation and training skills. Project, programme and
change management. Coaching and mentoring. Problem solving, decision
making and analysis. People management and empowerment. In depth
understanding of safety and security in a correctional environment.
Understanding of public service policy, correctional services act and legis-lative
framework. Confidentiality, integrity and honesty. Diplomacy, tactful and
assertiveness. Service delivery and client orientation. Influence and impact.
Networking/liaison with stakeholders. Willingness to travel. diplomacy.
DUTIES : Develop policies, frameworks and standard operational procedures for
provision of criminological services in the organization within his/her power of
authority. Assist in the design, development and implementation of monitoring
systems, performance indicators and frameworks for all criminological
programs. Liaise and consult relevant stakeholders for development of
appropriate relevant policies to enhance provision of criminological services in
the DCS. Develop and manage instruments to measure the offenders risk
level/rating during admission and before consideration for placement. Develop
a behaviour analysis tool to assess offending behaviour towards an offender’s
risk profile. Develop instrument/s to assess the security risks posed by
offenders to the community, correctional officers and other correctional clients.
Develop an instrument to identify and assess vulnerable offenders. Quality
assurance of criminological reports submitted to the National Council for
Correctional Services (NCCS). Manage and control criminological reports
submitted to the NCCS. Develop and manage templates for reports.
Coordinate and analyse submission of criminological reports for specific
category of offenders. Develop training manuals for criminologist in
collaboration with human resource development and DCS partners.
Coordinate and facilitate training on criminological services. Assist with
identification of research topics to improve provisioning of criminological
services in the DCS. Liaise with other relevant stakeholders and benchmark
on the role of criminologists in a corrections environment. Facilitate research
on best practices in the area of risks assessment instruments. Facilitate
research projects on risks posed by offenders to the community, correctional
officers and other correctional clients. Monitor and analyse crime patterns and
trends in order to inform the development of crime prevention strategies and
policies. Strategic and operational planning of the criminological services in the
department. Contribute in the development of the strategic plan for provision
of criminological services in the DCS. Develop the operational plans of the sub
directorate criminological services. Develop performance indica-tors to support
implementation of criminological services in the DCS. Provide support to the
regions on the implementation of criminological services. Decision making in
order to move the sub-directorate in the direction of the directorates’ mission
and goals. Advocate and support the multidisciplinary team approach and
contribute towards attainment of the DCS mandate objectives. Management of
performance information, finances, human resources and assets.
ENQUIRIES : National Head Office: Ms N Khumalo Tel No: (012) 305 8589/ (012) 307 2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
POST 43/07 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CRIMINOLOGIST
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Gauteng Region Ref No: GP 2025/11/01
KwaZulu-Natal Region Ref No: KZN 2025/11/01
Limpopo, Mpumalanga and North West Region Ref No: LMN 2025/11/01
Eastern Cape Region Ref No: EC 2025/11/01
Western Cape Region Ref No: WC 2025/11/01
Free State and Northern Cape Region Ref No: FSNC 2025/11/01
REQUIREMENTS : Recognised Master’s degree (NQF level 9) in Criminology. 6-10 years relevant
or related experience. Background in working on behavioural
assessment/profiling in the corrections/justice cluster will be an added
advantage. Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And
Attributes In depth understanding of safety and security in a correctional
environment. Communication, negotiation, analytical and report writing skills.
9
Project and programme management. Problem solving, decision making and
analysis. Change, stakeholder and people management. Confidentiality,
integrity and honesty. Diplomacy, tactful and assertiveness. Ability to network.
Resilient, influence and impact. Good communication, report writing, research
and development skills.
DUTIES : Conduct risk assessment. Render induction assessment of high risk/high
profile individuals to assess pattern of actions, demographics and motivation
as well as other crime characteristics. Render risk management assessment
to assess problematic and deficit areas and refer for professional intervention.
Pre-parole assessment to assess progress of rehabilitation and risks and
predictors for reoffending. Conduct behavioural assessment research. Interact
with offenders to understand their criminal behaviour and determine their
offending history and future risk of offending. Analyse and advise on
criminality/risk behaviour occurring inside the management area. Compile data
and form intact reports on crime/criminal related behaviours. Interview
offenders to determine the effects of rehabilitation programmes and readiness
for parole in terms of their risk for reoffending. Compilation and pro-vision of
profile/criminologist report to Case Management Committees (CMC)
/Correctional Supervision and Parole Boards (CSPB) to enhance decision
making process. Identify problematic criminal behaviour and recommend
referral to professionals. Apply wide range of theories and scientific academic
literature to explain criminal behaviour. Assist in compilation and quality
checking of profiles (G326) prior to submission to the CSPB. Contribute in the
development, compilation and implementation of the criminogenic risk
assessment/profiling tools for offenders. Identify shortfalls in the assessment,
classification and profiling of offenders. Conduct research and assist
criminologist sub directorate to improve offender risk profiling tools. Develop
remedial action in addressing shortfalls identified. Provide orientation and
capacity building of correctional assessment officials and other officials in the
area of work to improve offender risk assessment and profiling practice.
Conduct research in respect of all assessment tools. Promote criminological
activities and awareness. Plan and organize awareness campaigns. Cre-ate
and develop information leaflets. Research the effects of gangsterism within
correctional facilities. Liaise with relevant DCS officials, professional officials
and external stakeholders with regard to criminological theories, recidivism
risks and patterns. Promote partnerships with communities and NGO’s to
promote successful integration. Management of performance information,
finances, human resources and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Gauteng Region: Mr Masango SS Tel No: (012) 420 0173/ Ms Feni SAP (012)
420 0173/ (012) 420 0179.
Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B Tel No: (0823069027)
Limpopo, Mpumalanga and North West Region: Mr Buthelezi Z Tel No: (012)
306 2037/ Ms Nomvela PM (012) 306 2033/ Ms Lekhuleni TD (012) 306 2034.
Eastern Cape Region: Ms Myataza Z Tel No: (043) 706 7866/ Ms Mgugudo N
(043) 706 7882.
KwaZulu Natal Region: Mr Singh M Tel No: (033) 355 7380/ Ms Zuma NI (033)
033 355 7367.
Western Cape Region: Ms NA Mdladlamba Tel No: (021) 550 6014 / Ms A
Reddy (021) 559 7929 / Mr S Sikisazane (021) 558 0108 / Ms NC Sotyibi (021)
558 0518.
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
POST 43/08 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
PRACTITIONER
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Gauteng Region: Leeuwkop Ref No: GP 2025/11/02
Kgosi Mampuru II Ref No: GP 2025/11/03
Bavianspoort Ref No: GP 2025/11/04
Zonderwater Ref No: GP 2025/11/05
Johannesburg Ref No: GP 2025/11/06
Boksburg Ref No: GP 2025/11/07
Modderbee Ref No: GP 2025/11/08
Krugersdorp Ref No: GP 2025/11/09
KwaZulu-Natal Region: Pietermaritzburg Ref No: KZN 2025/11/02
Durban Ref No: KZN 2025/11/03
10
Empangeni Ref No: KwaZulu 2025/11/04
Waterval Ref No: KZN 2025/11/05
Ncome Ref No: KZN 2025/11/06
Glencoe Ref No: KZN 2025/11/07
Kokstad Ref No: KZN 2025/11/08
Limpopo, Mpumalanga and Northwest Region: Polokwane Ref No: LMN
2025/11/02
Barberton Ref No: LMN 2025/11/03
Bethal Ref No: LMN 2025/11/04
Klerksdorp Ref No: LMN 2025/11/05
Rooigrond Ref No: LMN 2025/11/06
Rustenburg Ref No: LMN 2025/11/07
Thohoyandou Ref No: LMN 2025/11/08
Witbank Ref No: LMN 2025/11/09
Eastern Cape Region: St Albans Ref No: EC 2025/11/02
Amatole Ref No: EC 2025/11/03
Kirkwood Ref No: EC 2025/11/04
East London Ref No: EC 2025/11/05
Sada Ref No: EC 2025/11/06
Mthatha Ref No: EC 2025/11/07
Western Cape Region Pollsmoor Ref No: WC 2025/11/02
Drakenstein Ref No: WC 2025/11/03
Brandvlei Ref No: WC 2025/11/04
Allandale Ref No: WC 2025/11/05
Goodwood Ref No: WC 2025/11/06
Southern Cape Ref No: WC 2025/11/07
West Coast Ref No: WC 2025/11/08
Voorberg Ref No: WC 2025/11/09
Overberg Ref No: WC 2025/11/10
Breede River Ref No: WC 2025/11/11
Free State and Northern Cape Region: Groenpunt Ref No: FSNC 2025/11/02
Grootvlei Ref No: FSNC 2025/11/03
Colesberg Ref No: FSNC 2025/11/04
Kimberley Ref No: FSNC 2025/11/05
Upington Ref No: FSNC 2025/11/06
Goedemoed Ref No: FSNC 2025/11/07
Bizzah Makhate Ref No: FSNC 2025/11/08
REQUIREMENTS : Recognised National Diploma /Degree in Safety Management or equivalent
qualification. 3- 5 years’ supervisory experience in an occupational health and
safety environment. Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies
and Attributes: Knowledge of COID, OHS Act, Occupational Health and Safety
policy and processes framework, HR Mandates regarding employee
occupational health and safety and Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of
collective Agreements with regard to employee occupational health and safety.
Information collection, analyses, interpretation, dissemination with regard to
performance assessment policies regulations and acts. Knowledge of Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, DCS Financial Policy regarding claims,
expenditure, advances, payments, invoices, etc; Project management
principles. PFMA – compilation of budgets, estimation, expenditure & reporting.
The ability to access and interpret required management information. Good
communication, presentation, decision making and problem-solving skills.
Networking / liaison with stakeholders. Policy development, analysis,
monitoring, evaluation and implementation.
DUTIES : Facilitate the implementation of OHS as incorporated in the Integrated
Employee Health and Wellness (IEHW) policy and procedure. Disseminate the
OHS and COID Acts. Display and post OHS and COID SHERQ policy
statement in a prominent place. Conduct awareness in terms of the act.
Orientate OHS Area Coordinators. Monitor compliance of occupational health
and safety in terms of COID Acts within the management area. Conduct OHS
and COID inspections. Conduct OHS and COID audits in the management
area. Monitor and facilitate the appointment and training of OHS committee
representatives within the management area. Act a secretariat to all OHS
Committee meetings and provide advice. Ensure effective functioning of all the
level one and two OHS committees’ meetings. Check the availability IOD
registers. Ensure that incidents in the management area are reported to the
management area office and head office within the prescribed time frames.
Establish partnership with local hospitals and medical practitioners and ensure
11
that all medical accounts are handled. Review OHS inspection tool timeously.
Monitor and promote corporate culture of safety, health, environment, risk and
quality (SHERQ) in the management area. Facilitate the implementation of
SHERQ. Ensure effective functioning of all the level one and two OHS
committees’ meetings. Monitor the activities of mandatory contractors during
the construction period and contracted workers. Ensure a waste management
plan is available. Evaluate contractor’s safety files and monitor compliance
thereof. Conduct OHS and COID awareness programmes. Identify training
needs for OHS Statutory. Facilitate the refresher training of the OHS Statutory
training. Ensure that all the Section 24, OHS incidents and accidents are
investigated and reported to the department of Labour. Monitor effective
reporting and administration of COID and medical accounts claims. Facilitate
the implementation of corrective measure in order to mitigate SHERQ risks.
Facilitate risk assessment with the affected party. Conduct hazard identification
and risk assessment. Ensure that the recommendations of the risk
assessments are implemented in the management areas. Ensure all control
measures are in place. Facilitate the provisions of medical assertive devices to
affected employees due to injury on duty. Monitor the implementations of
processed corrective measures following inspections and audits in the
management area. Ensure that occupational hygiene surveys are conducted.
Ensure medical examination is conducted for officials working at the hazardous
areas. Maintain and review the risk register. Submit inspection and audit
reports to the supervisor and to head office. Coordinate and facilitate
emergency preparedness plan and response procedure within the
management area. Ensure the availability of approved emergency evacuation
procedures of the work areas. Ensure that evacuation drills are conducted.
Ensure all signage’s are installed. Ensure emergency evacuation is approved
by the municipality. Ensure availability of first aid boxes, service fire
extinguishers and fire hose rails in the designated areas. Ensure the assembly
point is identified with a signage in a conspicuous area.
ENQUIRIES : Gauteng Region: Mr Masango SS (012) 420 0173/ Ms Feni SAP (012) 420
0173/ (012) 420 0179.
Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mkuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B (082) 3069027)
Limpopo, Mpumalanga and North West Region: Mr Buthelezi Z (012) 306
2037/ Ms Nomvela PM (012) 306 2033/ Ms Lekhuleni TD (012) 306 2034.
Eastern Cape Region: Ms Myataza Z (043) 706 7866/ Ms Mgugudo N (043)
706 7882.
KwaZulu Natal Region: Mr Singh M (033) 355 7380/ Ms Zuma NI (033) 033
355 7367.
Western Cape Region: Ms NA Mdladlamba (021) 550 6014 / Ms A Reddy
(021) 559 7929 / Mr S Sikisazane (021) 558 0108 / Ms NC Sotyibi (021) 558
0518.
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
12
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE
CLOSING DATE : 12 December 2025 (Applications received after the closing date and faxed
copies will not be considered).
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed form Z83 (obtainable from
any Public Service Department office i.e effective 01 January 2021 or on the
DPSA web site link: https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/. Should an
application be received using incorrect application employment form Z83, it will
be disqualified, which must be originally signed and dated by the applicant and
which must be accompanied by a detailed CV only (with full particulars of the
applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge & experience).
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
which should not be older than six months. Failure to comply with the above
instructions will result in applications being disqualified. Applicants applying for
more than one post must submit a separate form Z83 (as well as the
documentation mentioned above) in respect of each post being applied for. If
an applicant wishes to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing.
Should an application be received where an applicant applies for more than
one post on the same applications form, the application will only be considered
for the first post indicated on the application and not for any of the other posts.
Under no circumstances will photostat copies or faxed copies of application
documents be accepted. The successful candidates will be subjected to
Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset
record checks and qualification and employment verification). Successful
candidates will also be subjected to security clearance processes. The level of
appointments is dependent upon, qualifications, relevant experience and
research output. The shortlisted candidates will be subjected to two (2) pre-
entry assessments (practical and ethical exercise) which will determine the
candidate’s suitability. Applicants who do not receive confirmation or feedback
within 3 (three) months after the closing date, please consider your application
unsuccessful. Due to the large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of
applications will not be acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. For more information on the job description(s)
please contact the person indicated in the post details. Successful candidates
will be appointed on probation for the period of twelve (12) months in terms of
the prescribed rules.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 43/09 : SECRETARY FOR DEFENCE (DIRECTOR-GENERAL): DEPARTMENT OF
DEFENCE REF NO: 31/43/25
(5 year contract)
This is a re-advertisement and persons who have previously applied are
encouraged to re-apply.
SALARY : R2 352 642 per annum (Level 16), (all-inclusive salary package), which
consists of a basic salary (70% of package, employer‘s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund) and a flexible portion to be structured.
A non-pensionable allowance equal to 10% of the all-inclusive non-
pensionable HOD allowance.
CENTRE : Armscor Building, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate, an Undergraduate Qualification and a Postgraduate
Qualification NQF level 8 as recognised by SAQA. NQF level 9 and above
would serve as an advantage. Must have minimum 10 years proven experience
at senior managerial level. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public
Service Senior Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by the
National School of Government available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of an appointment. To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course
and for further details, please click https://thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-
pre-enrty-programme/. Kindly note that there is specific amount to be paid in
13
order to enrol for the course. The successful candidate must have executive
management experience with strong leadership capabilities and an extensive
experience in strategic and managerial positions at an executive level. He/she
must have an understanding of the functioning of government, constitution and
the role of the Defence Secretariat as defined in the Constitution, Act 108 of
1996. The successful candidate must have an understanding of the
Constitutional mandate of the Department, the relevant government
acts/legislation (Defence Act and regulations, Public Service Act and
regulations; PFMA and treasury regulations and relevant policies and
prescripts governing entities within the portfolio and impacting on the
Department and its relationship with International, National, and other
stakeholders. Knowledge of the government security sector, He/she will be
expected to be innovative and have organisational abilities, good writing skills,
project management, financial management skills and change management.
DUTIES : Serve as the Head of the Department of Defence and its entities in accordance
with all legislation, regulations and policy prescripts. Function as the principle
departmental policy advisor to the Minister of Defence and Military Veterans
(Minister) on defence policy matters. Support the Minister in the effective and
efficient execute his/her constitutional responsibilities as the Executive
Authority for Defence, including that of exercising civil control over the Defence
Force. Assist the Minister in providing strategic defence direction through
strategic research and the development of defence policies and strategies for
the defence and protection of South Africa. Ensure the implementation of such
defence strategic direction through strategic and operational plans,
programmes, budgets and organisational alignment. Ensure good governance
measures overall defence resources, and with specific reference to defence
human, financial, logistics and ICT resources. Ensure strategic control over the
defence function, including performance management, evaluation; reporting;
risk management; internal audit and departmental compliance; Manage the
defence relationships with key Stakeholders and Assurance Providers, inter-
alia: The Public Service Commission; the Department of Public Service and
Administration; the National Treasury; the Defence Audit Committee; and the
Auditor General of the Republic of South Africa. Provide defence science,
technology and acquisition services that manage defence capital and
technology programmes. Provide transversal strategic support services to the
Minister and the Department, inclusive of defence legal services; parliamentary
and cabinet services; cluster services; defence diplomacy services; public
entity ownership-control services; corporate communication services; and the
access to defence information. Provide a Secretariat to the National
Conventions Arms Control Committee.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant General M. Sitshongaye Tel No: (012) 355 6047
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Human Resource Division (Chief Directorate Human
Resource Management), Private Bag X976, Pretoria, 0001 or may be hand
delivered to Bank of Lisbon Building, Paul Kruger and Visagie Street, Pretoria
where it may be placed in a wooden box at the reception or email to
dhrcm.staffing@dod.mil.za
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on form Z83 (effective 01 January 2021),
obtainable from the website of the Department of Public Service and
Administration at www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc and should be
accompanied by a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV) only. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit relevant certified copies of
qualifications/relevant documentation. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). The shortlisted candidates will be subjected to two (2) pre-entry
assessments of which one will be a practical exercise and the other must be
an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection Committee shall score
both technical exercised as an additional criterion in the interview process. The
practical exercise shall determine the candidate’s suitability based on the
post’s technical and generic requirements and shall comprise a formal test to
determine a candidate’s proficiency Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment
shall be conducted to determine the candidate’s grasp of the ethical principles,
ethical decision-making abilities and ethical standards relevant to public
service. The logistics of which will be communicated by the department on the
date of the interview. Additional to this, the shortlisted candidates will be
required to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (competency
based assessments) as mandated by the Department of Public Service and
Administration Senior Management Service competency assessment tools.
14
The Competency Assessment will be limited to successful candidates in the
interview process only. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to mandatory
personnel suitability checks (pre-employment screening) which may include
social media profiles checks. A successful candidate will have to undergo a full
security vetting while in the employ of the department and negative outcome
shall nullify employment contract (Top Secret security clearance). Failure to
submit the required documents will result in your application not being
considered. Successful candidate will be required to disclose their financial
interests within one (1) month of appointment. The successful candidate will
be required to enter into a five (5) year employment contract and yearly
performance agreement with the Minister of Defence and Military Veterans.
Applicants must quote the relevant reference number provided. Applications
received after the closing date will not be considered. Failure to comply with
the above instructions will result in applications being disqualified. The
department reserves the right not to make appointment to the advertised post.
If you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date
of this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
The Department of Defence is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representativity (race, gender and
disability). The candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will
promote representativity will receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 12 December 2025 at 16h00 (Applications received after the closing date and
faxed copies will not be considered).
OTHER POSTS
POST 43/10 : OFFICE MANAGER TO CHIEF DEFENCE POLICY, STRATEGY AND
PLANNING REF NO: CDPSP/30/43/25/01
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Armscor Building, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent with a recognised Bachelor’s
Degree/Advanced Diploma at (NQF level 7) in Public
Administration/Management. A minimum of 3 years’ experience in
administrative or office management at an Assistant Director level. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations and relevant prescripts. Departmental policies and procedures.
Batho Pele principles. Minimum Information Security Standards. PFMA,
Treasury regulations, Employment Service Act, Skills development. General
Management, Project Management, Financial Management and must have
advanced Knowledge in Office Administration. Communication skills (Verbal
and written communication), Leadership, Problem-solving and decision making
Conflict Management, Facilitation, Analytical, Innovative, Sound organising
and planning skills, Advance Computer Skills (applications such as MS Word,
Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook. Personal attributes: Ability to work individually
and in a team, Ability to collaborate effectively and communicate with
stakeholders at various levels, Ability to work under pressure, Proactive
approach to meeting deadlines and delivering results with limited supervision,
Good interpersonal relations, Service Oriented and Integrity, Creative and
Innovative, Objectiveness and professionalism. Confidentiality. Reliability.
Flexibility. Teamwork. Ethical.
DUTIES : Successful candidate will be responsible to provide managerial and staff
support service to the Chief Defence Policy, Strategy and Planning (CDPSP)
for the Management of the inner-office of the Deputy Director General (DDG)
and the associated Level 2 activities thereto within the establishment of
Defence Policy, Strategy and Planning Division and perform the following key
functions: Coordination of activities and procedures within the Office of CDPSP,
Planning and co-ordination of the Divisional Chief’s daily programme and
responsibilities with the Division and other stakeholders, Provide an office
liaison service and a document management and dissemination system to
CDPSP, Manage the Assets, Human Resources and Financial Assets within
the office of CDPSP, Provide advisory service on procedural/technical and
policy matters to CDPSP and Manage Division’s Conference Facility and
provide a Secretariat to Divisional Meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R.F. Mahlangu Tel No: (012) 355 6034
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Defence Policy, Strategy and Planning Division,
Private Bag X161, Pretoria, 0001, may be hand delivered during office hours
15
to: Department of Defence, Armscor Building, cnr of Nossob and Boeing
Street,, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria, 0001 or email to
Phumelele.Gabuza@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this post with a candidate whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/11 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DIVISIONAL PLANNER REF NO: CDPSP/30/43/25/02
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Armscor Building, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent with a recognised Bachelors’
Degree/Advanced Diploma in Strategy and Planning/Public
Administration/Management or relevant qualification at (NQF level 7). A
minimum of 3 years’ experience in planning at an Assistant Director level.
Special requirements (Skills needed): Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations and relevant prescripts. Departmental policies and
procedures. Batho Pele principles. Minimum Information Security Standards.
PFMA, Treasury regulations, Employment Service Act, Skills development.
General Management, Project Management, Strategic Planning (including
operational planning), Financial Management and must have advanced
Knowledge in Planning. Communication skills (Verbal and written
communication), Leadership, Problem-solving and decision making Conflict
Management, Facilitation, Analytical, Innovative, Sound organising and
planning skills, Advance Computer Skills (applications such as MS Word,
Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook. Personal attributes: Ability to work individually
and in a team, Ability to collaborate effectively and communicate with
stakeholders at various levels, Ability to work under pressure, Proactive
approach to meeting deadlines and delivering results with limited supervision,
Good interpersonal relations, Service Oriented and Integrity, Creative and
Innovative, Objectiveness and professionalism. Confidentiality. Reliability.
Flexibility. Teamwork. Ethical.
DUTIES : Successful candidate will be responsible to provide and manage strategic
plans and reports for the Chief Defence Policy, Strategy and Planning (CDPSP)
and perform the following key functions: Integrate DPSP Strategic Plan and
Annual Performance, Manage DPSP reporting process, Provide Risk
Management Support to the DPSP and Provide Special Project Support to
DPSP.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R.F. Mahlangu Tel No: (012) 355 6034
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Defence Policy, Strategy and Planning Division,
Private Bag X161, Pretoria, 0001, may be hand delivered during office hours
to: Department of Defence, Armscor Building, cnr of Nossob and Boeing Street,
Erasmuskloof, Pretoria, 0001 or email to Phumelele.Gabuza@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this post with a candidate whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/12 : PERSONNEL OFFICIAL: SUPERVISOR: REF NO: ARTFMN/02/43/25/1
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : SA Army Artillery Formation HQ, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent with a minimum of 3 years relevant
experience in Human Resource Management. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Knowledge and Understanding of Human Resource (HR) legislative
framework governing Public Service Act Personnel (PSAP). Knowledge and
understanding of applicable HR prescripts. Knowledge, understanding and
interpretation of PERSOL/PERSAL system. Must be computer literate, i.e. MS
Office Suite (Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Good verbal and written
communication skills. Planning and organising skills. Good interpersonal skills.
Problem solving and analytical thinking skills. Initiative in administration work.
DUTIES : A successful candidate will be responsible to perform the following duties:
Supervise and undertake more complex implementation and maintenance of
human resource administration practices which consist of recruitment and
selection, appointments, transfer, verification of qualifications, secretariat
functions at interviews, absorptions and probationary for Public Service Act
16
Personnel (PSAP). Implementation conditions of service leave: administration
of Honours and Awards, Housing, Medical services, Personnel movements,
Remuneration. Termination of service. Approve transactions on PERSOL/
PERSAL system. Supervise, allocate and ensure quality of work. Prepare
reports on HR administration issues and statics.
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col M.R. Mokwape Tel No: (012) 355 2881/Ms J.M. Mokgoko Tel No: (012)
355 2813
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army Artillery Formation, Private Bag X172,
Pretoria, 0001 or may be hand delivered to SA Army Artillery Formation HQ,
Sebokeng Complex, Corner Koraalboom & Patriot Street, Pretoria 0001 or
email to Bridget.Masuku@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this post with a candidate whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/13 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPERVISOR REF NO: ARMYGYM /02/43/25/2
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : SA Army Gymnasium, Heidelberg
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent, with a minimum of three
(3) years’ experience in Administration. Special requirements (Skills needed):
Knowledge and Understanding of legislative framework governing Public
Service Act Personnel (PSAP). Knowledge of administration duties and record
keeping. Understanding of procedures in terms of working environment. Must
be computer literate, i.e. MS Office Suite (Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Good
verbal and written communication skills. Planning and organising skills. Good
interpersonal skills. Problem solving and analytical thinking skills Initiative in
administration work.
DUTIES : Supervise and render general clerical support services: Organise the
administration of the Light Workshop Troop (LWT) Section to ensure effective
management of LWT matters. Keep record, sort & distribute incoming mail to
different responsible members in the LWT Section. Keep record and dispatch
outgoing mail and faxes. Answer telephone enquiries. Make necessary copies
of documents for the LWT Section. Deal with internal work requisitions and
requisitions for stationary and cleaning equipment. Develop a filing system for
documents to ensure easy retrieval. Process letters, submissions, agendas,
minutes. Check documents for completion and correctness. Type business
letters, reports, agendas, minutes and memorandums. Perform elementary
personnel administration. Manage and process leave applications. Forward
statements and enquiries of LWT members to HR. Submit schedule name list
of LWT to HR. Collect and distribute pay sheets. Keep and update name list of
the LWT Section. Assist with the planning of the LWT Section. Receive,
promulgate within the unit and keep record of all Transport (TPT) and LWT
related policies. Keep record of scheduled repairs/services of vehicles. Keep
record of non-scheduled repairs. Assist with the LWT planning and budgeting
during the SMP Process. Assist with the administration regarding the
expenditure of State funds. Prepare reports on administration issues and
statics.
ENQUIRIES : Maj M.D. Sejake Tel No: (016) 340 2272/WO1 A.A. Jacobs Tel No: (016) 340
2065
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army Gymnasium, Private Bag X613, Heidelberg
Gauteng, 1438 or hand delivered to SA Army Gymnasium, Cnr Jacobs and
Louw Street, Heidelberg or email to Aldo.jacobs@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this post with a candidate whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/14 : SECRETARY REF NO: INTFMNHQ/02/43/25/3
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : SA Army Intelligence Formation, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Computer Literate (MS Word, Power Point,
Access and Excel), Good communication skills (written and verbal). Proficiency
language in English. Organising and planning skills, good interpersonal skills,
17
problem solving and analytical skills. Ability to work independently. Events
management and the ability to manage various databases for record keeping.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial support services to GOC SA Army Intelligence Formation.
Arrange weekly and monthly meetings, appointments and other work related
engagements. Compile agenda and write minutes during meetings. Write
routine notes, memos, letters and reports. Screen incoming and outgoing calls
in the office. Manage incoming and outgoing correspondences and maintain
proper record keeping for the GOC. Create various databases for record
keeping. Handle travel and accommodation arrangements, and subsequent
claims for the GOC. Manage the work attendance and leave register of the
Command Division. Introduce new ideas to improve existing filing, tasking and
document tracking processes. Develop and maintain an up to date database
of internal and external stakeholders. Handle petty cash payments for the
Command Division (purchase stationary and refreshments). Provide high
quality typing service to the GOC. Deal with classified files and documents.
Arrange for visitors authorisation and parking. Contribute positively to building
a high performing team within the Command Division.
ENQUIRIES : Major W. Theron/Captain M.C. Baloyi Tel No: (012) 355 2709/2729
APPLICATIONS : SA Army Intelligence Formation, Private Bag X172, Pretoria, 0001 or may be
hand-delivered at SA Army Intelligence Formation, Corner of Patriot and
Koraalboom Street, Sebokeng Building, Pretoria, 0001.or email to:
Koos.Mahlangu@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this post with a candidate whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/15 : PERSONNEL OFFICIAL: PRODUCTION REF NO: 3SAIBN /02/43/25/4
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : 3 South African Infantry Battalion, Kimberley, Northern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Knowledge and understanding of applicable HR
prescripts and legislative framework for Public Service Act Personnel (PSAP)
administration. Knowledge of Human Resource (HR) record keeping
Proficiency language in English. Good (written and verbal) communication
skills. Good interpersonal skills. Problem solving and analytical skills. Must be
computer literate, i.e. MS Office Suite (Word, Excel and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Implement human resource administration practices: Recruitment and
selection advertisement, appointments, transfer verification of qualifications,
secretariat and interviews. Implement conditions of employment: leave,
housing, medical, medal awards/ long service recognition, pension. File
documents. Type letters and other correspondence when required. Address
human resource administration enquires.
ENQUIRIES : 2Lt T Thejane Tel No: (053) 830 3528/WO1 D.D. Arries Tel No: (053) 830 3527
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, 3 South African Infantry Battalion, Private Bag X5056,
Midlands, 8325 or hand delivered to 3 South African Infantry Battalion, Private
Bag X5056, Midlands or email to 3saibn@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this post with a candidate whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/16 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK PRODUCTION REF NO: ARMYHQ/02/43/25/5
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : SA Army Headquarters Unit, Dequar Road, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Knowledge of clerical duties and data capturing.
Good communication Skills (writing and verbal) skills. Organising and
coordinating skills. Must be computer literate, i.e. MS Office Suite (Word, Excel
and PowerPoint) and telephone etiquette. Must be creative and innovative and
have ability to interact at all levels.
DUTIES : Perform general clerical duties. Update registers and statistics. Handle routine
and inquiries. Make photocopies and receive/send facsimiles. Distribute
documents/packages to various stakeholders as required on a daily basis.
Deliver and collect documents from areas surrounding the HQ. Keep and
18
maintain the filling system for the Directorate. Type letters and other
correspondence, when required. Keep and maintain the incoming and outgoing
register of the Directorate. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in
relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotation and complete
requirement forms for purchasing of standard office equipment. Maintain the
effective logistical support, functioning, and management of the Directorate by
conducting monthly equipment control. Update the inventory. Do annual,
quarterly, and biannual stocktaking. Manage and be responsible for the
safekeeping of equipment and stores. Attend weekly coordinating and
communication meetings. Control office stationery. Maintain leave register for
the Directorate. Maintain attendance register for the Directorate. Keep and
maintain personnel records in the Directorate. Arrange traveling and
accommodation. Check the correctness of the substance and travel claims of
officials and submit to management for approval. Handle telephone accounts
and petty cash for the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : WO2 X.M. Mpongoshe/Ms E.T. Nyakhulalini Tel No: (012) 355 1455/1602
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army Headquarters Unit (Army Headquarters)
Dequar Road, Private Bag X981, Pretoria, 0001 hand delivered to SA Army
Headquarters Unit, No1 Dequar Road or email to
putswelitlhakanyane@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this post with a candidate whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/17 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO: 4ARTREG/02/43/25/6
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : 4 Artillery Regiment, Potchefstroom
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Knowledge of clerical duties and data capturing.
Good communication Skills (writing and verbal). Organisation and coordinating
skills. Must be computer literate, i.e. MS Office Suite (Word, Excel and
PowerPoint) and telephone etiquette. Must be creative and innovative and
have ability to interact at all levels.
DUTIES : A Perform general clerical duties. Update registers and statistics. Handle
routine and inquiries. Make photocopies and receive/send facsimiles.
Distribute documents/pending files to various stakeholders as required on a
daily basis. Deliver and collect documents. Maintain the filling system of
documents Type letters and other correspondence, when required. Keep and
maintain the incoming and outgoing document register. Keep and maintain
assets register. Distribute outgoing documents and Pending files. File files in a
safe place. Archive files and retrieve archived files if requested. Coordinate and
the follow-up of outstanding files. Safekeep unit stamps and audit files.
Maintain the effective logistical support, functioning, and management of the
Unit by conducting monthly equipment control. Update the inventory list.
ENQUIRIES : Maj C. du Plessis: Tel No: (018) 289 4051/Ms T. Siko Tel No: (018) 289 4074
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army Artillery Formation ,4 Artillery Regiment,
Private Bag X2003, Noordbrug, 2522 or may be hand delivered to, 4 Artillery
Regiment, Sheldon’s Rust, military base, Noordburg, Potchefstroom, 2522 or
email to Bridget.Masuku@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this post with a candidate whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/18 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO: 35ENGR/02/43/25/7
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : 35 Engineer Support Regiment, Dunnottar
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Knowledge of clerical duties and data capturing.
Knowledge of administration duties and record keeping. Good communication
Skills (writing and verbal). Organisation and coordinating skills. Must be
computer literate, i.e. MS Office Suite (Word, Excel and PowerPoint) and
telephone etiquette. Must be creative and innovative and have ability to interact
19
at all levels. Knowledge of facility Management. Basic knowledge of health and
safety procedures.
DUTIES : Update all facility files. Keep and maintain filing system for all living-in
members. Handle application of facility houses and routines enquires. Keep
and maintain the incoming and outgoing document for facility houses. Allocate
houses to the various members as required. Safekeep all vacant houses keys.
Update registers and statistics for houses. Ensure cleanliness of all building at
all time.
ENQUIRIES : Lt N. Naki Tel No: (011) 730 3184
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, 35 Engineer Support Regiment, S.A. Army Division,
P.O. Box 1188, Dunnottar, 1590 or hand deliver to 35 Engineer Support
Regiment, Witroad Military Base Dunnottar, Nigel, 1590 or email to
Mkhulu.Mbele@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this post with a candidate whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/19 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO: 10WKSP/02/43/25/8
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : 102 Workshop, Potchefstroom
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Knowledge of clerical duties and data capturing.
Knowledge of administration duties and record keeping. Good communication
Skills (writing and verbal). Organising and coordinating skills. Must be
computer literate, i.e. MS Office Suite (Word, Excel and PowerPoint) and
telephone etiquette. Must be creative and innovative and have ability to interact
at all levels.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support service: Keep and maintain the incoming and
outgoing document register. Type letters and memorandum or other
correspondences when required. Make photocopies. Keep and maintain filling
system. Distribute documents to relevant stakeholders. Provide supply chain
clerical support. Keep and maintain asset register. Provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Warrant Officer H. Steyns Tel No: (018) 289 3177/ 3309. Ssgt A.R. Baartman
Tel No: (018) 289 3086
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, 102 Field Workshop, Private Bag X2012, Noordburg,
Potchefstroom, 2522 or hand deliver to 102 Field Workshop, Tiger Moth street,
Potchefstroom, 2522 or email to 17Mu.Invites@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this post with a candidate whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/20 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO:
43BDE/02/43/25/9
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : 43 SA Brigade HQ, Wallmansthal, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Knowledge of transport and logistic
administration. Knowledge of clerical duties and practices. Language
proficiency in English. Must be computer literate, i.e. MS Office Suite (Word,
Excel and PowerPoint). Good interpersonal skills. Problem solving and
analytical skills. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Ability to work
independently.
DUTIES : Administrate the toll gate route forms. Assist with administration of authorities.
Assist with administration of stabling authorities. Assist with the administration
of the maintenance schedules of the vehicles. Ensure general security
including safekeeping of the keys. File all relevant paper work on vehicle files.
Issue logbooks on a daily basis. The reading back of logbooks. Read in of all
work requisition when logbooks are read back.
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col J. Mpeoa at 071 0270 150/Maj W. Mente at 068 048 3643
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, 43 Brigade Headquarters, Private Bag X8, Pyramid,
Pretoria, 0120 or hand delivered to 43 Brigade Headquarters, Wallmansthal,
Pretoria or email to Ncamsile.Mthembu@dod.mil.za
20
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this post with a candidate whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/21 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO:
16MAINT/02/43/25/10
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : 16 Maintenance Unit, Lohatla
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Knowledge of supply chain and procurement
administration. Knowledge of clerical duties and practices. Language
proficiency in English. Must be computer literate, i.e. MS Office Suite (Word,
Excel and PowerPoint). Good interpersonal skills. Problem solving and
analytical skills. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Ability to work
independently.
DUTIES : A successful candidate will provide logistic support to Procurement officer:
Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in relation to procurement of
goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete procurement form for the
purchasing of standard office items. Track and manage stock levels of facility
related supplies and consumables. Maintain accurate records of facility usage,
maintain schedules and asset inventories. Handle filing system,
correspondence and document control. Coordinate routine inspection and
maintenance of building, grounds and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : WO P. Mofokeng Tel No: (053) 321 2431/Ms K. Modubeki Tel No: (053) 321
2407
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence. SA Army Combat Training Centre, Private Bag X3001,
Postmasburg, 8420 or hand deliver SA Army 16 Maintenance Unit, Combat
Training Centre, Lohatla, Postmasburg or email to
Jaco.Opperman@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this post with a candidate whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/22 : CLEANER: SUPERVISOR REF NO: CTC/02/43/25/11
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : SA Army Combat Training Centre, Lohatla, Postmasburg
REQUIREMENTS : ABET Level 4 or equivalent with a minimum 3 years experience in cleaning
services environment. Special requirements (Skills needed): Knowledge of
types and purpose of cleaning materials and operating cleaning equipment.
Good understanding of Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHSA). Ability to
handle large staff component. Good interpersonal skills and effective
communication skills. Problem solving and analytical skills.
DUTIES : Effective supervising of cleaning services. Inspecting physical environments to
ensure hygiene and cleanliness. Monitor availability and condition of cleaning
equipment. Control inventory of cleaning materials and equipment in various
buildings. Order, receive and issue cleaning materials. Compile cleaning
reports. Draft cleaning programs for various buildings. Liaise with seniors
timeously with regards to problem situations that may arise. Control and
manage leave for the cleaning personnel under supervision. Monitor and
manage discipline of subordinates. Manage staff according to PMDS.
ENQUIRIES : Maj E.T. Olehile Tel No: (053) 321 2088/2101/WO1 M.W. Gall Tel No: (053) 321
2109/2184
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army Combat Centre, Lohatlha Military Area,
Private Bag X3001, Postmasburg, 8420. Department of Defence SA Army
Combat Centre Lohatlha, Postmasburg 8420 or email to
Ashley.Erasmus@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this post with a candidate whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
21
POST 43/23 : FOOD SERVICE AID: SUPERVISOR REF NO: ARMYGYM/02/43/12 (X7
POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : SA Army Gymnasium, Heidelberg, Gauteng
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 11 (NQF Level 3) or equivalent with at least 3 years
experience in food service aid environment. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Language proficiency in English (written and verbal). Planning and
organising skills. Good interpersonal skills. Operating skills. Inventory
management skills. Cleaning and maintenance. Understanding of health and
safety regulations to prevent contamination. Be able to work after hours when
the unit is hosting functions and or formal dinners after hours.
DUTIES : Effective supervising of supervise food service aid, create shift schedules,
manage attendance and ensure adequate staffing. Ensure that the dining hall
is clean at all times, tables are clean, neat and set correctly according to the
menu. Train stuff on food safety. Ensure that cutlery, serviettes condiments,
butter and assorted jams are available on the tables. Maintain cleanness and
safety standards. Assist in preparing and serving food. Report all losses,
damages and theft observed. Ensure food quality and presentation meet
standards.
ENQUIRIES : Maj M.D. Sejake Tel No: (016) 340 2272/WO1 A. A. Jacobs Tel No: (016) 340
2065
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army Gymnasium, Private Bag H613, Heidelberg
1438. Hand deliver at Cnr Jacobs and Louw Street, Heidelberg, 1441 or email
to Aldo.jacobs@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/24 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: 4ARTEG/02/43/25/13 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : SA Army, 4 Artillery Regiment, Potchefstroom
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Planning and organising skills. Good interpersonal skills. Operating
skills. Cleaning and maintenance. Understanding of health and safety
regulations to prevent contamination. Be willing to work shifts.
DUTIES : Assist in the preparation of meals and snacks according to ration scales and
menu. Assist with the dishing up of food per meal. Assist with the receiving of
rations. Assist with food preparations and other related responsibilities during
field exercises. Apply hygiene as well as safety measures in the work
environment. Remove kitchen waste.
ENQUIRIES : Lt M.A. Mohale Tel No: (018) 289 3812/Ms M.M. Makhoana Tel No: (018) 289
3884
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, School of Artillery, Private Bag X2005, Noordbrug,
2522 or may be hand delivered to Department of Defence, School of Artillery,
Klipdrift Military Base, Noordbrug, Pochefstroom,2523 or email to
Bridget.Masuku@dodmil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/25 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: 1TACTREGT/02/43/25/14
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : 1 Tactical Intelligence Regiment, Potchefstroom
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Basic numeracy
and literacy skills. Basic knowledge of health and safety.
DUTIES : A successful candidate will be expected to perform the following duties: Assist
in the preparation of meals and snacks according to ration scales and menu.
Assist with the dishing up of food per meal. Assist with the receiving of rations.
Assist with food preparations and other related responsibilities during field
exercises. Apply hygiene as well as safety measures in the work environment.
Remove kitchen waste. Apply OHS measures where required.
22
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col R. Botha Tel No: (018) 289 1000/1071
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence 1 Tactical Intelligence Regiment, Private Bag X2002,
Noordburg, Potchefstroom, 2522. Or hand delivered to 1 Tactical Intelligence
Regiment, Jan Smuts Avenue Potchefstroom or email:
Koos.Mahlangu@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this post with a candidate whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/26 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ARMYCOLL /02/43/25/15 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : SA Army College, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skill
needed): Be able to communicate in English and able to work after hours when
unit is hosting certain function.
DUTIES : Ensure the dining hall is clean at all times, tables are clean, clean and set
correctly according to the menus. Fold the serviettes. Ensure cutlery, serviettes
condiments, butter and assorted jams are available on the tables. Ensure that
the jugs for water and juice are clean and always replenished when empty.
Assist in preparing and serving food. Report all losses, damages and theft
observed. Wash dirty dishes. Clean kitchen, equipment and appliances. Keep
a high standard of hygiene in all daily tasks. Prepare for functions. Prepare
tea/coffee during conferences/meetings per instruction that will be given to you.
ENQUIRIES : Maj T.P. Papi Tel No: (012) 674 4059/2Lt L. Seleke Tel No: (012) 674 4011
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army College, Private Bag X1002, Thaba
Tshwane, Pretoria, 0143 or hand delivered to SA Army College, Thaba
Tshwane, Pretoria or email to Nyabane.Maswanganyi@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/27 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: 2FDREGT/02/43/25/17 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : 2 Field Engineer Regiment, Bethlehem
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Basic numeracy
and literacy skills. Basic knowledge of health and safety. Knowledge of
gardening and maintenance equipment. Ability to operate cleaning machines.
Ability to work in team and/or individual. Ability to perform routine tasks. Ability
to priorities and organize work.
DUTIES : Cultivation of garden areas, planting of trees, flowers, shrubs, etc. prepare soil
for the planting of plants, maintain flower and other beds by fertilizing, irrigating,
weeding and pruning, mowing of lawns and cutting of edges, loading and
unloading of various articles and equipment needed on the grounds, irrigation
of lawns, pruning of trees. Remove refuge from the terrain, load refuge on truck
for transportation to refuge dump or burn refuge, maintain neatness of unit
areas, keep structures on grounds such as parking areas, sport grounds,
shooting ranges, ditches, gutters, etc. Clean swimming pools and treat with
chemicals, Maintain fence, assist with the preparation and cleaning of grounds
before and after functions, measure poison and fertilizer and apply as
instructed. Use, manage and maintain gardening equipment and machinery,
operate equipment required to perform daily tasks, check serviceability of
machinery and equipment, report faults on machinery and equipment, ensure
that all safety precautions are followed when operating equipment/machinery.
ENQUIRIES : Lt K.A. Mosala Tel No: (058) 306 2525
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, 2 Field Engineer Regiment, S.A. Army Division,
Private Bag X22, Bethlehem, 9700 or hand deliver at 2 Field Engineer, Support
Regiment, and Military Base Dunnottar, Nigel, 1590 or email to:
Zongezile.malgas@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
23
POST 43/28 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: ARMYGYM/02/43/25/18 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : SA Army Gymnasium, Heidelberg, Gauteng
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Knowledge regarding operating of garden equipment and machinery,
basic gardening knowledge, Indicate the skills required for the post, Incumbent
must be skilled in operating gardening machinery and equipment, physically fit.
Follow instructions precisely; work well alone or in a team, basic organizing
skills and communication skills.
DUTIES : Cultivation of garden areas, planting of trees, flowers, shrubs, etc. prepare soil
for the planting of plants, maintain flower and other beds by fertilizing, irrigating,
weeding and pruning, mowing of lawns and cutting of edges, loading and
unloading of various articles and equipment needed on the grounds, irrigation
of lawns, pruning of trees. Remove refuge from the terrain, load refuge on truck
for transportation to refuge dump or burn refuge, maintain neatness of unit
areas, keep structures on grounds such as parking areas, sport grounds,
shooting ranges, ditches, gutters, etc., Clean swimming pools and treat with
chemicals, Maintain fence, assist with the preparation and cleaning of grounds
before and after functions, measure poison and fertilizer and apply as
instructed. Use, manage and maintain gardening equipment and machinery,
operate equipment required to perform daily tasks, check serviceability of
machinery and equipment, report faults on machinery and equipment, ensure
that all safety precautions are followed when operating equipment/machinery.
ENQUIRIES : Maj M.D. Sejake Tel No: (016) 340 2272/WO1 A.A. Jacobs Tel No: (016) 340
2065
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army Gymnasium, Private Bag X613, Heidelberg,
1438 or hand deliver SA Army Gymnasium, Cnr Jacobs and Louw Street,
Heidelberg 1438 or email to: Aldo.jacobs@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/29 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: 3SAI/02/43/25/19 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : 3 South African Infantry Battalion, Kimberley, Northern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Knowledge regarding operating of garden equipment and machinery,
basic gardening knowledge. Incumbent must be skilled in operating gardening
machinery and equipment, physically fit. Follow instructions precisely, work
well alone or in a team. Basic organising skills and communication skills.
DUTIES : Cultivation of garden areas, planting of trees, flowers, shrubs, etc. Prepare soil
for the planting of plants, maintain flower and other beds by fertilizing, irrigating,
weeding and pruning, mowing of lawns and cutting of edges. Loading and
unloading of various articles and equipment needed on the grounds, irrigation
of lawns, pruning of trees. Remove refuge from the terrain, load refuge on truck
for transportation to refuge dump or burn refuge, and maintain neatness of unit
areas. keep structures on grounds such as parking areas, sport grounds,
shooting ranges, ditches, gutters, etc., assist with the preparation and cleaning
of grounds before and after functions, measure poison and fertilizer and apply
as instructed. Use, manage and maintain gardening equipment and machinery,
operate equipment required to perform daily tasks, check serviceability of
machinery and equipment, report faults on machinery and equipment, ensure
that all safety precautions are followed when operating equipment machinery.
ENQUIRIES : Second Lieutenant T. Thejane Tel No: (053) 830 3528/Warrant Officer D.D.
Arries Tel No: (053) 830 3527
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, 3 South African Infantry Battalion, Private Bag X5056,
Midlands, 8325 or hand deliver at Department of Defence, 3 South African
Infantry Battalion, Midlands Military Base, 8325 or email to 3saibn@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
24
POST 43/30 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: ASBPOTCH/02/43/25/20 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Army Support Base (ASB) Potchefstroom
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Knowledge regarding operating of garden equipment and machinery,
basic gardening knowledge. Incumbent must be skilled in operating gardening
machinery and equipment, physically fit. Follow instructions precisely, work
well alone or in a team. Basic organising skills and communication skills.
DUTIES : Cultivation of garden areas, planting of trees, flowers, shrubs, etc. Prepare soil
for the planting of plants, maintain flower and other beds by fertilizing, irrigating,
weeding and pruning, mowing of lawns and cutting of edges. Loading and
unloading of various articles and equipment needed on the grounds, irrigation
of lawns, pruning of trees. Remove refuge from the terrain, load refuge on truck
for transportation to refuge dump or burn refuge, and maintain neatness of unit
areas. keep structures on grounds such as parking areas, sport grounds,
shooting ranges, ditches, gutters, etc., assist with the preparation and cleaning
of grounds before and after functions, measure poison and fertilizer and apply
as instructed. Use, manage and maintain gardening equipment and machinery,
operate equipment required to perform daily tasks, check serviceability of
machinery and equipment, report faults on machinery and equipment, ensure
that all safety precautions are followed when operating equipment machinery.
ENQUIRIES : Capt V.T. Mokone Tel No: (018) 289 0313/Ms S.S. Shedi Tel No: (018) 289
3378
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Army, Support Base Potchefstroom,
Private Bag X2012, Noordburg, North West, 2522 or hand deliver at South
African Army Support Base Potchefstroom, Corner Eleazer and Ventersdorp
road, Noordburg, Potchefstroom, 2531 or email to 17Mu.Invites@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/31 : CLEANER REF NO: SCH ENGR/02/43/25/21
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : School of Engineers Kroonstad
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Basic
knowledge of health and safety. Ability to operate cleaning machines. Ability to
work in team and individual. Ability to perform routine tasks.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be expected to perform the following duties:
Ensure that offices/kitchen/bathrooms/conference rooms are clean, neat and
presentable. Keep registers of cleaning material that is distributed.
Responsible for the safekeeping of cleaning material that is distributed. Ensure
general hygiene, floor cleaning, washing, scrubbing floors, windows, walls, and
carpets and removing of garbage from dustbin on a daily basis. Dusting of
equipment in offices as tasked. Polish all furniture in offices as tasked. Effective
use of cleaning equipment to assist in performing mentioned duties/tasks.
Report any defects in the workplace to immediate supervisor. Apply OHS
measures where required.
ENQUIRIES : Capt Makhalimele Tel No: (056) 216 2063/2200
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, School of Engineers, Private Bag X20, Kroonstad,
9500.or hand deliver at Military Base Kroonstad Marais Street Kroonstad, 9500
or email to: Maartens@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this post with a candidate whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/32 : CLEANER REF NO: 3SAI/02/43/25/22 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : 3 South African Infantry Battalion, Kimberley, Northern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Knowledge of
basic maintenance of cleaning machinery with low level of complexity in
25
operating it. Knowledge of basic hand tools and cleaning equipment. Ability to
operate cleaning machines. Ability to perform routine tasks. Ability to work in
team and individually.
DUTIES : Perform cleaning related duties in offices and other facilities as determined by
Supervisor (i.e. sweeping, vacuuming, window cleaning, dusting, polishing
furniture and floors). Clean ablution facilities. Report any defects in the work
place to immediate supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Second Lieutenant T. Thejane Tel No: (053) 830 3528/Warrant Officer D.D.
Arries Tel No: (053) 830 3527
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence 3 South African Infantry Battalion, Private Bag X5056,
Midlands, 8325 or hand deliver at Department of Defence, 3 South African
Infantry Battalion, Midlands Military Base, 8325 or email to 3saibn@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/33 : CLEANER REF NO: SCHTACINT/02/43/25/23
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : School of Tactical Intelligence, Potchefstroom
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Basic
knowledge of health and safety. Ability to operate cleaning machines. Ability to
work in team and individual. Ability to perform routine tasks.
DUTIES : Perform cleaning related duties in offices and other facilities as determined by
Supervisor (i.e. sweeping, vacuuming, window cleaning, dusting, polishing
furniture and floors). Clean ablution facilities. Report any defects in the
workplace to immediate supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel T.T. Wallace/Capt S.B. Moatshe Tel No: (018) 289 1107/1051/1052
APPLICATIONS : School of Tactical Intelligence, Private Bag X2002, Noordbrug, Potchefstroom,
2522 or may be hand-delivered at School of Tactical Intelligence, Jan Smuts
Avenue, Potchefstroom. Or email to: Koos.Mahlangu@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this post with a candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/34 : CLEANER REF NO: ARMYGYM/02/43/25/24 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : SA Army Gymnasium, Heidelberg
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Basic
knowledge of health and safety. Ability to operate cleaning machines. Ability to
work in team and individual. Ability to perform routine tasks.
DUTIES : Perform cleaning related duties in offices and other facilities as determined by
Supervisor (i.e. vacuum of facilities, Clean and dust office furniture on a daily
basis, wash office floors, clean cutlery of offices with kitchen facilities, clean
toilet, regularly wash windows and empty dustbins of offices). Properly
maintained equipment save and secure, clean offices and conference facilities.
Apply OHS measures where required. Clean ablution facilities. Report any
defects in the work place to immediate supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Maj M.D. Sejake Tel No: (016) 340 2272/WO1 A.A. Jacobs Tel No: (016) 340
2065
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army Gymnasium, Private Bag X613, Heidelberg
Gauteng, 1438 or hand delivered to SA Army Gymnasium, Cnr Jacobs and
Louw Street, Heidelberg or email to Aldo.jacobs@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/35 : CLEANER REF NO: ARMYTRGFMN/02/43/25/25
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : SA Army Training Formation HQ, Pretoria
26
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Knowledge of
basic maintenance of machinery with low level of complexity in operating it.
Knowledge of basic hand tools and cleaning equipment. Ability to operate
cleaning machines. Ability to perform routine tasks. Ability to work in team and
individually.
DUTIES : Perform cleaning related duties in offices and other facilities as determined by
Supervisor (i.e. vacuum of facilities, Clean and dust office furniture on a daily
basis, wash office floors, clean cutlery of offices with kitchen facilities, clean
toilet, regularly wash windows and empty dustbins of offices). Properly
maintained equipment save and secure, clean offices and conference facilities.
Apply OHS measures where required. Clean ablution facilities. Report any
defects in the workplace to immediate supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Maj M.P. Chauke Tel No: (012) 355 1167/SSgt T. Kgare Tel No: (012) 355 1391
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army Training Formation, Private Bag X172,
Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivered to SA Army Training Formation HQ, Dequar
road, Pretoria or email to Nyabane.Maswanganyi@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this post with a candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/36 : CLEANER REF NO: ASBPOTCH /02/43/25/26 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Army Support Base (ASB) Potchefstroom
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Basic
knowledge of health and safety. Ability to operate cleaning machines. Ability to
work in team and individual. Ability to perform routine tasks.
DUTIES : Perform cleaning related duties in offices and other facilities as determined by
Supervisor (i.e. vacuum of facilities, Clean and dust office furniture on a daily
basis, wash office floors, clean cutlery of offices with kitchen facilities, clean
toilet, regularly wash windows and empty dustbins of offices). Properly
maintained equipment save and secure, clean offices and conference facilities.
Apply OHS measures where required. Clean ablution facilities. Report any
defects in the workplace to immediate supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Capt V.T. Mokone Tel No: (018) 289 0313/Ms S.S. Shedi Tel No: (018) 289
3378
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Army, Support Base Potchefstroom,
Private Bag X2012, Noordburg, North West, 2522 or hand deliver at South
African Army Support Base Potchefstroom, Corner Eleazer and Ventersdorp
road, Noordburg, Potchefstroom, 2531 or email to 17Mu.Invites@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/37 : CLEANER REF NO: ASBEC/02/43/25/27
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Army Support Base (ASB) Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Knowledge of
basic maintenance of cleaning machinery with low level of complexity in
operating it. Knowledge of basic hand tools and cleaning equipment. Ability to
operate cleaning machines. Ability to perform routine tasks. Ability to work in
team and individually.
DUTIES : Perform cleaning related duties in offices and other facilities as determined by
Supervisor (i.e. sweeping, vacuuming, window cleaning, dusting, polishing
furniture and floors). Clean ablution facilities. Report any defects in the
workplace to immediate supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : WO2 Z.C. Mdokwe Tel No: (041) 505 1237/Ms S. Van der Watt Tel No: (041)
505 1248
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Army Support Base Eastern Cape Po Box 13419,
Humewood, Port Elizabeth, 6013.or hand deliver to Army Support Base
27
Eastern Cape, Willow Drive, Humewood, Port Elizabeth, 6013 or email to
Erika.VanTonder@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this post with a candidate whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 43/38 : ASSISTANT STOREMAN REF NO: SCHLENGR/02/43/25/16
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : School of Engineers Kroonstad
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively in English. Basic knowledge of
Health and Safety procedures, physical strength and fitness.
DUTIES : To receive and sort equipment from Transito in warehouse. Bin numbers
allocation to items without bins. Record all items received in the register. All
documents must be taken to the chief warehouseman for signature. Store the
equipment maintenance. Dispatch the equipment and material. Record all
items dispatched in the register. Ensure person receiving the items signs for it.
Keep the warehouse neat.
ENQUIRIES : Capt Makhalimele Tel No: (056) 216 2063/2200
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, School of Engineers, Private Bag X20, Kroonstad,
9500 or hand deliver at Military Base Kroonstad Marais Street Kroonstad 9500
or email to: Maartens@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this post with a candidate whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
28
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 23:59 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the correct
job title in full as it is on the advert not abbreviations and the reference number
of the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address
associated with the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be
accepted. Failure to do so, your application will be disqualified. Applications
quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the new form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect application
for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each post(s) advert must be
accompanied by its own application form for employment and must be fully
completed, initialled and signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to
fully complete, initial and sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the
application during the selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of
the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on
the Z83 it is acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached.
However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under
Part “F” must be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated
comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience if any) and a completed
and signed new Z83 application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other related
documents on or before the day of the interview following the communication
from Human Resources and such qualification(s) and other related
document(s) will be in line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA
Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders in posession of foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The
Department does not accept applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply
with the abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well as applications
received late will not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested
documents will result in the application not being considered. Correspondence
will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate’s suitability based on the posts’s technical and generic
requirements. If you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability
check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification
verification and employment verification). Please note by responding to the
advertisement, you consent to the collection, processing, and storing of your
Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of Personal
Information Act(POPIA) Your information will be used soley for the purpose of
this promotion and will not be shared with third parties without prior consent
unless required by law. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s). The successful candidate will
be required to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative action
employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform the
employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race,
gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
ERRATUM: Please note the ESSA link provided for directing applications to
the advertised post of Senior Administration Clerk, Head Office, Pretoria with
a Ref No: GAP-PRET-26365014-20251028-1 was incorrect. The post was
advertised on Public Vacancy Circular 41 dated 07 November 2025 with a
closing date of 21 November 2025. Here is the correct link:
Https://essa.labour.gov.za/EssaOnline/WebBeans/ please direct your
applications. The closing date has been extended to 05 December 2025.
29
OTHER POSTS
POST 43/39 : PRINCIPAL INSPECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & HYGIENE REF NO:
HR4/4/4/11/01 (X2 POSTS)
(Re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied must re-apply)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Parktown
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year National Diploma (NQF 6)/ undergraduate Bachelor Degree (NQF
7) in Environmental Health/ Analytical Chemistry/ Occupational Health/
Hygiene/ Chemical engineering. Four years’ functional experience in Health
and Hygiene inspection/ Services. Valid driver’s Licence. Knowledge:
Departmental policies and procedures, Batho Pele Principles, OHS Act and
Regulations, OHS Standards, OHS Management System, OHS act, OHS
Regulation, OHSAS, Inspectors appointment certificate, Appointment
certificate ex-officio. Skills: Facilitation, Planning and Organizing, Computer
literacy, Interpersonal, Problem solving, Interviewing, listening and
observation, Presentation, Innovative, Analytical, Research, Project
Management.
DUTIES : Provide inputs into the development of Health and Hygiene policies and ensure
implementation of OHS strategy for the Department of Labour in terms of OHS.
Conduct complex inspections for Health and Hygiene regularly as per
inspection programme. Conduct technical research on the latest trends in
Occupational Health and Safety within identified sectors. Provide support for
enforcement action, including preparation of reports for legal proceedings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Tshabalala Tel No: (011) 853 0300
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: P O Box 4560, Johannesburg, 2001 or
hand deliver at 47 Empire Road, Parktown. For online applications email: Jobs-
GP22@labour.gov.za
POST 43/40 : SENIOR FRAUD INVESTIGATOR REF NO: HR4/4/4/11/02
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Gauteng
REQUIREMENTS : Three years’ relevant tertiary qualification in Risk Management/ Internal Audit/
Risk and Security Management. /Accounting/Law/Policing/Forensic
Investigation/CFE qualification. Two (2) years functional experience in anti-
fraud and corruption environment. ACFE membership will be an added
advantage. Prepared to travel nationally (In possession of a at least a Code 8
driver’s license). Knowledge: Investigative Principles and Practices,
Departmental and the Fund’s Policies and Procedures, Public Financial
Management Act (PFMA), Unemployment Insurance and Unemployment
Insurance Contribution Act, Basic Knowledge of all Labour legislations, Anti-
Fraud and Corruption Policies, Legal environment: Court and Criminal
procedures, Fraud related administration and operations, Batho Pele
Principles. Skills: Planning and Organizing skills, Time Management, Conflict
Management, Analytical Skills, Investigation skills, Computer Literacy,
Presentation skills, Communication skills, Report writing Skills.
DUTIES : Implement Fraud and Corruption Prevention Strategies. Conduct
Investigations on reported Fraud and Corruption. Analyse system capabilities
to anti-fraud management programmes. Liaise with appropriate sections within
the Department of Employment & Labour and external stakeholders on Fraud
Prevention measures. Supervise resources in the Section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SI Tyantsi Tel No: (011) 853 0899
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 4560, Johannesburg, 2001 or
hand deliver at 47 Empire Road, Parktown. For online applications email: Jobs-
GP @labour.gov.za
POST 43/41 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PES REF NO: HR4/4/1/201
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Mdantsane, Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ National Senior Certificate. Valid driver’s licence will be an added
advantage. Knowledge: Departmental Policies, Procedures and guidelines,
Labour Legislation and Regulations, Employment Services Act, Public Service
Act and Regulations, Batho Pele principles. Skills: Planning and organising,
30
Verbal and written communication, Analytical, Computer literacy, Presentation,
Interpersonal, Report writing, Innovative.
DUTIES : Liaise with stakeholder relations for acquisition of placement opportunities.
Avail information for coordination of International Cross-Border Labour
Migration functions. Support coordination of the registration and certification of
Private Employment Agencies. Coordinate large (Provincial) opportunities from
key stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr LB Mduduma Tel No: (043) 285 0400
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Private Bag X19, Mdantsane,
5219 or Hand deliver at Department of Employment and Labour Mazaule
Street, N.U.1, Mdantsane. Email: Jobs-ECMDS@Labour.gov.za
GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME FOR A PERIOD OF 24 MONTHS
The Department of Employment and Labour would like to invite qualifying graduates to apply to
participate in an internship programme for a period of 24 months. Applicants must be unemployed
graduates, should not have participated in an internship programme previously and must be a South
African citizen. The Department of Employment and Labour is an equal opportunity employer. Equity
Considerations: Priority will be given to applicants from previously disadvantaged background, in line
with the Department’s Employment Equity Plan. Qualifying South African Youth and People living with
disability will be given advantage.
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted through the link: [LINKSHIELD PROTECTED]
sayouth.mobi/Home/Index/EN Search for Project 20K
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 23:59 midnight (online)
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new Z83 application form, obtainable from any Public Service Department or
on www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies/www.Labour.gov.za. Received applications
using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered.
The completed and signed form should be accompanied by a recently updated
CV. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of Matric
certificate, academic transcripts (qualification/s with 360/480 credits as
recognised by SAQA and academic record) and ID). All shortlisted candidates
shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment
method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical
and generic requirements. Applicants wishing to apply for an internship outside
their area of residence must be willing to find their own accommodation and
transportation considering that they will be earning a stipend. Failure to submit
the requested documents/information will result in your application not being
considered. Applicants will be expected to be available for assessments and
selection interviews at a time, date and place as determined by the
Department. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) and National
Diploma should be NQF Level 6 (with 360 credits as recognised by SAQA). All
appointments for internship are subject to the verification and pre-screening
process. The Department reserves the right not to make an appointment. Due
to the large number of applications we envisage to receive, application will not
be acknowledged, if you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after
the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Correspondence will be entered into with shortlisted candidates
only. Please direct your application to the relevant province and complete a
separate application for each reference number.
OTHER POSTS
POST 43/42 : INTERN: REMOTE ICT TECHNICIANS REF NO: HRP20KRIT/HO (X4
POSTS)
(24 Months)
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Head Office. Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year National Diploma (NQF6)/ Undergraduate Degree (NQF7) in
Information Technology. A+ and or N+ Certificate will be an advantage.
DUTIES : Assist in providing telephonic and remote end-user device support. Install and
troubleshoot desktop applications. Provide support on user account requests
and issues (create user, unable to logon, etc.). Monitor and update call
escalations until the call is resolved. Conducts call management on Information
31
Technology Service Management System (ITSM). Follow up and update
troubleshooting activity on active calls.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
POST 43/43 : INTERN: ICT SERVICE DESK AGENTS REF NO: HR/P20K/ISDA/HO (X4
POSTS)
(24 Months)
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office: Laboria
REQUIREMENTS : National Higher Certificate/College Diploma (NQF5) as recognized by SAQA
in Information Technology (ICT)/ A+ certificate.
DUTIES : Log incidents on IT Service Management (ITSM) system from incoming calls
and emails. Ensure that all related documentation is attached to the logged
incidents and requests. Manage call assigning and escalation. Follow up and
update all user and engineer activity on the logged calls where applicable.
Provide call management for all incidents logged on the system.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
POST 43/44 : INTERN: CONTRACT AND LICENCE CONTROLLER (ICT) REF NO:
HR/P20K/CLC/HO (X5 POSTS)
(24 Months)
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office: Laboria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma (NQF6)/ Undergraduate Degree (NQF7) in
Business Management / Administration / Logistics / Financial Management /
LLB / Commercial Law / Information Technology.
DUTIES : Assist in coordinating and developing ICT service level agreements. Assist in
monitoring the implementation of service level agreements. Assist to
coordinate information to ensure improvement on management of contracts
and service level management. Assist to coordinate software procurement
lifecycle. Assist to administer software throughout the software lifecycle.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
POST 43/45 : INTERN: ASSET MANAGEMENT OFFICER (ICT) REF NO:
HR/P20K/AMO/HO (X3 POSTS)
(24 Months)
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification National Diploma (NQF6)/ Undergraduate
Degree (NQF7 in Supply Chain Management / Asset Management / Public
Management / Public Administration / Business Management / Business
Administration / Financial Management / Accounting / Taxation/Internal
Auditing.
DUTIES : Assist in provide Store administration. Assist in management of ICT inventory
and assigning tasks to engineers. Assist in liaise with Supply Chain
Management in relation to procurement and disposal.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
POST 43/46 : INTERN: ADMINISTRATION CLERK (ICT) REF NO: HR/P20K/IADC/HO
(24 Months)
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification National Diploma (NQF6)/ Undergraduate
Degree (NQF7) in Management/ Public Management/ Public Administration/
Business Management/Business Administration/ Management Assistant/
Office Management and Technology/Administrative Management/ Public
Management and Governance.
DUTIES : Provide administrative duties. Identify order and issue stationery to the
directorate. Administer and file documents and submissions within the
directorate accordingly. Update users’ database. Type submissions, letters and
memoranda as per instructions.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
32
POST 43/47 : INTERN: FIELD ICT TECHNICIANS (X50 POSTS)
(24 Months)
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria Ref No: HR/P20K/FIT/HO (X5 Posts)
Provincial Office: Gauteng Ref No: HR/P20K/FITGP (X5 Posts)
Provincial Office: KwaZulu-Natal Ref No: HR/P20K/FIT/KZN (X5 Posts)
Provincial Office: Eastern Cape Ref No: HR/P20K/FIT/EC (X5 Posts)
Provincial Office: Western Cape Ref No: HR/P20K/FIT/WC (X5 Posts)
Provincial Office: Limpopo Ref No: HR/P20K/FIT/LP (X5 Posts)
Provincial Office: Mpumalanga Ref No: HR/P20K/FIT/MP (X5 Posts)
Provincial Office: North-West Ref No: HR/P20K/FIT/NW (X5 Posts)
Provincial Office: Free State Ref No: HR/P20K/FIT/FS (X5 Posts)
Provincial Office: Northern Cape Ref No: HR/P20K/FIT/NC (X5 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year National Diploma (NQF6)/ Undergraduate Degree (NQF7) in
Information Technology / Information Systems / Computer Engineering /
Computer Science.
DUTIES : Assist to provide Desktop, technical and Printer support to end-users. Assist to
provide Call management on Information Technology Service Management
System (ITSM). Accept, update, resolve or reassign incident and task calls on
ITSM. Assist to provide Local Area Network (LAN) Support. Assist to handle
device install, move, add, change and DE install (IMACD) task calls. Assist to
install and troubleshoot desktop applications. Assist to provide troubleshooting
for desktop and printer hardware faults.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
POST 43/48 : INTERN: LABOUR MARKET INFORMATION AND STATISTICS REF NO:
HR/P20K/LMIS/HO (X2 POSTS)
(24 Months)
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year Qualification National Diploma (NQF6)/ Undergraduate Degree
(NQF7) in: Economics/ Statistics/ Data analytics/ Social Sciences.
DUTIES : Assist with data collection at provincial and national level. Facilitate the
compilation of data (Collating, verifying, analysing, coding, interpreting data
trends). Produce statistical report on labour market information. Dissemination
of the labour market information data. Liaise and coordinate with all relevant
stakeholders to facilitate collaboration & partnership.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
POST 43/49 : INTERN: LABOUR MARKET MONITORING AND LABOUR MARKET
INFORMATION REF NO: HR/P20K/LMM & LMI/HO (X2 POSTS)
(24 Months)
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification National Diploma (NQF6)/ Undergraduate
Degree (NQF7) in: Economics/ Statistics/ Data analytics/ Social Sciences.
DUTIES : Assist with data collection at provincial and national level. Facilitate the
compilation of data (Collating, verifying, analysing, coding, interpreting data
trends). Produce statistical report on labour market information. Dissemination
of the labour market information data. Liaise and coordinate with all relevant
stakeholders to facilitate collaboration & partnership.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
POST 43/50 : INTERN: LIBRARY REF NO: HR/P20K/IL/HO
(Sub-unit in LMIS)
(24 Months)
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification National Diploma (NQF6) or Degree in Library
and Information Science (NQF7) or relevant field.
DUTIES : Assist with daily library operations. Processing and maintaining library
collections through cataloguing, classifying and shelving. Updating library
33
databases and managing digital and physical materials. Providing customer
service and assisting patrons with inquiries.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
POST 43/51 : INTERN: DIGITAL CONTENT CREATOR REF NO: HR/P20K/DCC/HO
(24 Months)
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three- year tertiary qualification National Diploma (NQF level 6) in Graphic
Design, Multimedia, Visual Communication, or equivalent qualification.
DUTIES : Assist in designing digital posters, banners, and templates for campaigns and
reports. Adapt existing designs for web or mobile formats. Support layout
adjustments for presentations and documents using approved. templates.
Ensure content accuracy and CI compliance in design outputs. Help prepare
visuals for digital content and marketing campaigns. Assist with capturing and
editing photos or videos for communication purposes. Upload graphics and
videos to platforms and help monitor engagement. Maintain a task list and keep
up with design trends. Apply brand guidelines in all content produced.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
POST 43/52 : INTERN: RESEARCHER REF NO: HR/P20K/RSC/HO
(24 Months)
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification National Diploma (NQF6)/ Undergraduate
Degree (NQF7) Public Administration / Social Sciences / Economics.
DUTIES : Assist reviewing research reports. Facilitate the compilation of data (Collating,
verifying, analysing, coding, interpreting data trends). Analyse historical reports
produced by the Branch and develop required reports. Produce analytical
reports on the effectiveness of historical research output. Dissemination of
research and analytical outputs. Liaise and coordinate with all relevant
stakeholders to facilitate collaboration & partnership.
ENQUIRIES : SA Youth Contact Centre at 0800 727272
34
ANNEXURE E
GOVERNMENT TECHNICAL ADVISORY CENTRE (GTAC)
APPLICATIONS : Please register, or if you are already registered, sign in and apply for this
position on the GTAC eRecruitment website
https://erecruitment.gtac.gov.za/erecruitment/
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025 at 12 pm
NOTE : Only online applications will be accepted. Applications not accompanied by a
comprehensive CV and a fully completed and signed Z83 form will not be
considered. Only South African Citizens and Permanent Residents need to
apply as per PSR 2016. Applications should be accompanied by a duly
completed and signed Z83 form (obtainable from any Public Service
department). The post title and reference number must be clearly indicated on
the Z83 form. A recent comprehensive CV should be submitted. Certified
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents will be required to be
submitted to HR on or before the day of the interview by shortlisted candidates.
All short-listed candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks and
security vetting in order to confirm employment. Short-listed candidates must
make themselves available for a panel interview on the date determined by
GTAC. Late applications and those not meeting the requirements will not be
considered. Should you not receive feedback from GTAC within 2 months of
the closing date, please consider your application unsuccessful. GTAC
reserves the right to fill or not fill the advertised posts The GTAC is an equal-
opportunity employer and encourages applications from women and people
with disabilities. Our buildings are accessible to people with disabilities and
reasonable accommodation is provided for persons with disabilities.
OTHER POSTS
POST 43/53 : FINANCIAL ANALYST: JOBS FUND PMU REF NO: G17/2025
Term: 24 Months Fixed-Term contract
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive), PSR 44 will apply to
candidates appointed in the Salary Level.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree/ Advanced Diploma/ BTech (NQF 7) in Finance, Project
Finance, Chartered Accountants, ACCA Qualified or Economics or related field.
A Postgraduate Qualification in Finance or Project Finance would be
advantageous. At least 6 – 8 years’ experience in Project Finance, Corporate
Finance or Structured Finance, with at least 2 years at a management level.
Experience in public service would be advantageous. Competencies Required:
Client Service Orientation: The ability to interact with and respond to internal
and external client needs and expectations in a manner that puts into practice
the Batho Pele spirit and meets and exceeds service delivery standards, with
priority given to client satisfaction. Concern for Quality and Order: The desire
to see things done logically, clearly and well. It takes various forms: monitoring
and checking work and information, insisting on the clarity of roles and duties,
and setting up and maintaining an information system. Effective
Communication: The ability to transmit and receive information clearly and
communicate effectively to others by considering their points of view in order
to respond appropriately. This may involve listening, interpreting, formulating
and delivering: verbal, non-verbal, written, and/or electronic messages. It
includes the ability to convey ideas and information in a way that brings
understanding to the target audience. Emotional Intelligence: The capacity for
recognising their own feelings and those of others, for motivating themselves
and others as a result of this awareness, and for managing emotions within
themselves and in others. Integrity/ Honest: Contributes to maintaining the
integrity of the organisation; displays high standards of ethical conduct and
understands the impact of violating these standards on an organisation, self,
and others; is trustworthy. Problem Solving and Analysis: The ability to
understand a situation, issue, problem, etc., by breaking it into smaller pieces,
or tracing the implications of a situation in a step-by-step way. It includes
organising the parts of a problem, situation, etc., in a systematic way; making
systematic comparisons of different features or aspects; setting priorities on a
rational basis; and identifying time sequences, causal relationships, or if-then
relationships. Create timely and well-developed solutions by examining
35
alternatives, risks and consequences. Resources Planning: Organises work,
sets priorities and determines resource requirements; determines short- or
long-term goals and strategies to achieve them; coordinates with other
organisations or parts of the organisation to accomplish goals; monitors
progress and evaluates outcomes. Team Participation: The ability to work
cooperatively with others, to work together as opposed to working separately
or competitively. Valuing Diversity: The ability to understand and respect the
practices, customs, values and norms of other individuals, groups and cultures.
It goes beyond what is required by governmental employment equity
regulations to include the ability to respect and value different points-of-view,
and to be open to others of different backgrounds or perspectives. It includes
seeing others’ differences as a positive part of the work environment. It also
means being able to work well with a wide variety of people representing
different backgrounds, cultures and socio-economic levels. Vision and
Purpose: Modelling and promoting high personal and professional standards
that support the organisation’s vision, mandate and values. Sharing goals,
objectives and ideas to encourage others to commit to and be enthusiastic
about realising the vision. Computer literacy: Knowledge and ability to use
computers and technology efficiently. Refers to the comfort level someone has
with using computer programs and other applications associated with
computers (MS Office, Internet, email). Includes the ability to learn new
applications associated with the business. Development Financing: Knowledge
of development financing approaches and methods, including the financing of
long-term projects and public services based upon a non-recourse or limited
recourse financial structure, in which project debt and equity used to finance
the project are paid back from the cash flow generated by the project.
Economic Development: Knowledge of South African economic development
policies and programmes with a specific focus on approaches and
methodologies to making markets work for the poor. Financial Analysis:
Knowledge of financial data analysis, including the ability to collect and monitor
data, conduct financial modelling, analyse results, monitor variances, identify
trends, recommend actions and assist with annual and quarterly forecasting.
This further includes knowledge of types of agreements/contracts typically
used in non/limited recourse finance. Government Knowledge: Knowledge of
the tiers and sectors of government and inter-governmental relationships, and
the economic and social development priorities and programmes of national,
provincial and local governments. Grant Management: Knowledge of grant
funding (non-repayable funds) approaches and methods and the regulatory
environment governing the management of public funds. This includes
knowledge of the South African grant funding reforms initiative and grant
management systems. Internal Control/ Audit: Knowledge of how to evaluate
control systems for financial, administrative, programme, and operational
activities to provide reasonable assurances that obligations, costs and
disbursements comply with applicable regulations and laws, that property is
funded, and assets are safeguarded; and that revenues and expenditures
applicable to operations are properly recorded and accounted. Labour
Markets: Knowledge of how labour markets work and the current active labour
market policy interventions. Legislative knowledge: Knowledge of the
regulatory environment and processes regarding the implementation of
policies, legislation and service delivery programmes, and knowledge of the
PFMA and NT regulations pertaining to the Jobs Fund. Project Management:
Knowledge of project management principles, methods, or tools for appraising,
conceptualising, structuring, scheduling, coordinating, and managing projects
and resources, including monitoring, evaluating and reporting on project
impact, costs, work, and contractor performance. Public Finance Economics:
Knowledge of the field of economics that studies government activities and the
alternative means of financing them.
DUTIES : To be responsible for the financial management and oversight of funds
allocated to the Jobs Fund (JF), ensuring governance, compliance, and
stakeholder engagement. The role also focuses on contributing to the
knowledge and learning agenda of the Fund by researching and analysing data
as well as leading and mentoring junior staff. Funding Allocation: Analysis of
Corporate Financials and other relevant reports including analysing current
and past financial data and performance. Review of new investment proposals
(due diligence) and opportunities conducted by project teams. Accompany
project teams on due diligence visits on a risk basis. Review of commercial
analysis, financial model analysis, risk and institutional analysis conducted by
36
project teams. Review appraisal reports for submission to various committees.
Support project teams at various committees. Review contracting
documentation and support contracting negotiations. Review disbursement
documentation required to provide initial funding allocations to projects. Cost
Analysis: Review and assess the appropriate levels of project costs by
establishing standard costs benchmarked with market data. Review of project-
level financial assessments on a monthly and or quarterly basis. Enhance the
cost analysis process by establishing and enforcing policies and procedures.
Review project budgets, including cost estimates for reasonability. Provide
guidance to finance teams on effective cost analysis. Improve the financial
status by analysing results and monitoring variances at the fund portfolio level.
Identify trends and recommend actions to Jobs Fund management.
Recommend actions by analysing and interpreting data and making
comparative analyses. Evaluate projects' expenditures against the Jobs Fund
(JF) value for money frameworks Governance & Compliance: Review JF
policies for alignment with accounting standards. Identifying trends in financial
performance and providing recommendations for improvement. Assists in the
development and/or enhancement of program systems and procedures.
Identifies and manages implementation risks for the assigned programs and
develops sufficient risk mitigation for identified risks. Supports legal and other
staff in ensuring Fund compliance with guidelines and other applicable
legislation. Provides oversight on the work done on financial data, which
includes bulk payroll data for validity, accuracy, and completeness. Conducts
verification checks on submitted financial information, manages the audit
process for the audit of the supported projects. Provides overall financial
information in preparation for Auditor General (AG) Audits. Financial
Management: Monitor the spending against the budget for the allocated
programs. Review financial models and budget re-projections. Develop
strategies for enhancing efficient spending against targets. Prepares regular
reports to various stakeholders on overall fund progress. Manages Fund cash
flow and prepares drawdown requests to sufficiently capitalise the various
programs as and when required. Conducts strategic site visits as part of the
financial management of the project portfolio. Preparing disbursement
documentation for consideration and approval by the Head of the Fund.
Oversee disbursements to approved projects as well as monitor project
progress in post-investment. Prepares financial reports on allocated fund
performance Stakeholder Management: Maintains communication with staff
and other key stakeholders regarding financial matters. Motivates and provides
support to project teams to achieve their targets. Provides technical and non-
technical support to Jobs Fund staff and other stakeholders. Manages
relationships with Contracted Intermediaries to ensure sound financial
management at the project level. Jobs fund support: Liaise with implementing
stakeholders and promote a culture of adherence towards efficiency and
achievement of value for money. Promote knowledge management through
research and publication of papers. Maintain communication with staff
regarding financial matters. Manage team dynamics in order to meet the
Fund’s objectives. Assist with the development and maintenance of financial
models and forecasting methodologies and tools. Quality assures the
deliverables produced by the junior staff. Lead, mentor and guide team
members.
ENQUIRIES : Kaizer Malakoane at 066 250 7072
APPLICATIONS : Email: Kaizer.malakoane@gtac.gov.za
POST 43/54 : LEGAL ADVISOR: JOBS FUND PMU REF NO: G18/2025
24 Months Fixed-Term contract
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive), PSR 44 will apply to
candidates appointed in the Salary Level.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB (NQF 8) or equivalent and related qualification, with admission as an
Advocate or Attorney with Right of Appearance in the High Court. Qualification
in Public Law, Constitutional Law and/or Administrative Law will be an
advantage. At least 6 - 8 years’ experience in a legal environment, at least 2
years of experience at a management level. Experience in providing written
and oral advice, drafting legal opinions and contracts and performing functions
of a Corporate Law Advisor is required. Competencies Required: Client Service
Orientation: The ability to interact with and respond to internal and external
37
client needs and expectations in a manner that puts into practice the Batho
Pele spirit and meets and exceeds service delivery standards, with priority
given to client satisfaction. Commitment to Learning: Actively pursues learning
and development in order to achieve results and to contribute to continuous
improvement. Supports and encourages the learning and development of
others. Concern for Quality and Order: The desire to see things done logically,
clearly and well. It takes various forms: monitoring and checking work and
information, insisting on the clarity of roles and duties, setting up and
maintaining an information system. Attention to detail is of critical importance.
Decision Making: The ability to weigh, determine and judge the lowest risk /
highest return solution or option to problems, issues, and intentions, based on
all relevant information and data and pre-determined decision-making criteria
and parameters. Effective Communication: The ability to transmit and receive
information clearly and communicate effectively to others by considering their
points of view in order to respond appropriately. This may involve listening,
interpreting, formulating and delivering verbal, non-verbal, written, and/or
electronic messages. It includes the ability to convey ideas and information in
a way that brings understanding to the target audience. Holding People
accountable: Acts to ensure others perform in accordance with clear
expectations and goals. Information Sharing: Both the motivation to expand
and use one's knowledge and the willingness to share this knowledge with
others. Integrity/ Honesty: Contributes to maintaining the integrity of the
organisation; displays high standards of ethical conduct and understands the
impact of violating these standards on an organisation, self, and others; is
trustworthy. Networking and influencing: Establishes, maintains and utilises a
relevant network of contacts in order to keep a pulse on public, political and
internal issues and make informed decisions. It implies an intention to
persuade, convince, influence, or impress others in order to meet the intended
objectives. Problem Solving and Analysis: The ability to understand a situation,
issue, problem, etc., by breaking it into smaller pieces, or tracing the
implications of a situation in a step-by-step way. It includes organising the parts
of a problem, situation, etc., in a systematic way; making systematic
comparisons of different features or aspects; setting priorities on a rational
basis; and identifying time sequences, causal relationships, or if-then
relationships. Create timely and well-developed solutions by examining
alternatives, risks and consequences. Resources Planning: Organises work,
sets priorities and determines resource requirements; determines short- or
long-term goals and strategies to achieve them; coordinates with other
organisations or parts of the organisation to accomplish goals; monitors
progress and evaluates outcomes. Results Orientation: Concern for holding
yourself and others accountable for achieving results or for surpassing a
standard of excellence. It includes the process of setting measurable
objectives, implementing change and then checking back to determine the
effect of your efforts. The standard may be one’s own past performance
(striving for improvement); an objective measure (results orientation);
outperforming others (competitiveness); challenging goals one has set, or even
what anyone has ever done (innovation). Valuing Diversity: The ability to
understand and respect the practices, customs, values and norms of other
individuals, groups and cultures. It goes beyond what is required by
governmental employment equity regulations to include the ability to respect
and value different points of view, and to be open to others of different
backgrounds or perspectives. It includes seeing others’ differences as a
positive part of the work environment. It also means being able to work well
with a wide variety of people representing different backgrounds, cultures and
socio-economic levels. Vision and Purpose: Modelling and promoting high
personal and professional standards that support the organisation’s vision,
mandate and values. Sharing goals, objectives and ideas to encourage others
to commit to and be enthusiastic about realising the vision. Administrative Law:
Area of the law governing the relationship between individuals (citizens,
companies) and the state. A branch of law dealing with the legal relationships
between the state and individuals and with the relations among governmental
agencies. Specifically, knowledge of International and Constitutional law and
the ability to interpret Statutes is required. Administrative Operations:
Knowledge, capabilities and practices associated with the support of
administrative and management activities to facilitate organisational and
mission goals and objectives. This competency requires knowledge of the
appropriate rules, regulations, processes and associated systems within
38
various enabling functions, which may include human resources management,
resource management, employee support services, documentation,
procurement and financial management. Commercial Law: Commercial law or
business law is the body of law which governs business and commerce and is
often considered to be a branch of civil law and deals both with issues of private
law and public law. Commercial law regulates corporate contracts, hiring
practices, and the manufacture and sale of consumer goods. Specifically,
Knowledge of contracts, legal issues concerning mergers and acquisitions and
financial regulations, and legal interpretation and drafting skills is required.
Computer literacy: Knowledge and ability to use computers and technology
efficiently. Refers to the comfort level someone has with using computer
programs and other applications associated with computers (MS Office,
Internet, email). Includes the ability to learn new applications associated with
the business. Development Financing: Knowledge of development financing
approaches and methods including the financing of long-term projects and
public services based upon a non-recourse or limited recourse financial
structure, in which project debt and equity used to finance the project are paid
back from the cash flow generated by the project. Economic Development:
Knowledge of South African economic development policies and programmes
with a specific focus on approaches and methodologies to making markets
work for the poor. Government Knowledge: Knowledge of South African
government systems and processes, the local government legal framework
and the role and responsibilities of National and provincial government within
that framework. Grant Management: Knowledge of grant funding (non-
repayable funds) approaches and methods and the regulatory environment
governing the management of public funds. This includes knowledge of the
South African grant funding reforms initiative and grant management systems.
Information Management: The ability to gather, prepare, house and share the
organisationally relevant information produced or found through work in a
manner that creates easy access and understanding, and that informs and
educates the reader regarding the subject. Labour Markets: Knowledge of how
labour markets work and the current active labour market policy interventions.
Legislative knowledge: Knowledge of the regulatory environment and
processes regarding the implementation of policies, legislation and services
delivery programmes, and knowledge of the NT and/or DPSA and/or other
regulatory prescripts regarding; procurement, contract management and
services payment; Jobs Fund and grants management; labour management
and employment in South Africa. Project Governance: Knowledge of project
risk management analysis and risk controls design and conducting of due
diligence exercises and project audits. Project Management: Knowledge of
project management principles, methods, or tools for appraising,
conceptualising, structuring, scheduling, coordinating, and managing projects
and resources, including monitoring, evaluating and reporting on project
impact, costs, work, and contractor performance. Public Finance Economics:
Knowledge of field of economics that studies government activities and the
alternative means of financing them.
DUTIES : To assist with the implementation of the Jobs Fund legal strategy and
framework, and to conduct research, to conduct appraisals and assessments
of applications, draft legal opinions and contracts and provide legal advice and
support on the establishment and management of funding contracts between
the Jobs Fund and its partners. Strategy and research: Provide inputs and
feedback on strategic plans and annual reports. Maintain and recommend
improvements to Legal Advisory policies and procedures. Conduct legal and/or
factual research and investigations on employment facilitation funding, analyse
data and recommend courses of action, as appropriate. Research and provide
advice on legal issues arising under domestic and international Administrative
and Contractual laws as requested. Draft legal opinions on ad hoc matters as
requested. Contracts and legal instruments: Assist with the establishment,
performance and accessibility of the Jobs Fund contract management strategy
and framework, including the records and signed contracts database and
standardised templates register. Provide legal advice to stakeholders on legal
issues concerning, amongst others, the restriction of state assets, bond issues,
financial regulation, procurement issues and Treasury control, governance,
compliance and risk exposure. Draft contracts and develop legal instruments
for the review of contracts for compliance (domestic and international). Draft
Addenda to contracts as requested. Assist with the negotiation of contracts on
behalf of the GTAC/Jobs Fund, the Minister of Finance and entities where
39
applicable. Review Matched Funding Agreements, Loan Agreements, MOUs,
SLAs, Audit Reports, Terms of Reference(s) and provide legal advice as
requested. Contract management and administration: Conduct and provide
legal research on projects prior to and after partner consultations. Conduct due
diligence on entities when requested. Draft and review commercial agreements
and contracts to be entered into by the GTAC/ Jobs Fund. Update and maintain
the signed contracts and records database. Record all new instructions
appended to signed contracts. Monitor and review compliance with terms and
conditions of contracts, analyse legal issues arising, and develop and
implement corrective actions and/or solutions. Professional legal assistance:
Provide legal advice to partners where appropriate. Scrutinise legal
documentation and address issues. Draft legal documents, pleadings and
opinions. Provide legal support in respect of any projects that may have legal
implications quarterly. Assist with the writing, reviewing and editing of legal
correspondence between Jobs Fund and its partners. Knowledge
management: Write papers, reports, opinions, articles, and other documents
for publishing on the GTAC/Jobs Fund website/ Newsletter/ present Brown
Bags and conduct training when requested. Maintain and update the database
of all legal opinions generated for the GTAC/Jobs Fund. Client relationship
management: Identify key staff, and build and maintain relationships and
interactions with partners, stakeholders and business representatives.
Establish relationships with internal and external service providers. Monitor the
level of partner satisfaction at regular intervals and after each significant
delivery of product or service. Identify and respond to opportunities for
providing legal products and services to be the strategic partner of choice with
the GTAC/Jobs Fund. Respond to partners’ queries and complaints, ensuring
that corrective action is taken when necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Kaizer Malakoane at 066 250 7072
APPLICATIONS : Kaizer.malakoane@gtac.gov.za
POST 43/55 : OPERATIONS MANAGER: JOBS FUND PMU REF NO: G19/2025
Term: 24 Months Fixed-Term contract
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive), PSR 44 will apply to candidates
appointed in the Salary Level.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree/ Advanced Diploma/ BTech (NQF 7) in Commerce,
Business Administration and/or Office Administration or a related field. A
Postgraduate qualification in Commerce, Business Administration and/or
Office Administration would be advantageous. 5 – 7 years' experience as an
Office Manager, Operations Manager and/or Business Support Manager.
Experience in project management and public service would be advantageous.
Competencies Required: Client Service Orientation: The ability to interact with
and respond to internal and external client needs and expectations in a manner
that puts into practice the Batho Pele spirit and meets and exceeds service
delivery standards, with priority given to client satisfaction. Effective
Communication: The ability to transmit and receive information clearly and
communicate effectively with others by considering their points of view in order
to respond appropriately. This may involve listening, interpreting, formulating
and delivering verbal, non-verbal, written, and/or electronic messages. It
includes the ability to convey ideas and information in a way that brings
understanding to the target audience. Integrity/ Honesty: Contributes to
maintaining the integrity of the organisation; displays high standards of ethical
conduct and understands the impact of violating these standards on an
organisation, self, and others; is trustworthy. Organisational Awareness: The
ability to understand and learn the power relationships in one’s own
organisation or in other organisations. This includes the ability to identify the
real decision makers, the individuals who can influence them, and to predict
how new events or situations will affect individuals and groups within the
Department. Problem Solving and Analysis: The ability to understand a
situation, issue, problem, etc., by breaking it into smaller pieces or tracing the
implications of a situation in a step-by-step way. It includes organising the parts
of a problem, situation, etc., systematically; making systematic comparisons of
different features or aspects; setting priorities on a rational basis; and
identifying time sequences, causal relationships, or if-then relationships.
Create timely and well-developed solutions by examining alternatives, risks
and consequences. Resources Planning: Organizes work, sets priorities and
40
determines resource requirements; determines short- or long-term goals and
strategies to achieve them; coordinates with other organisations or parts of the
organisation to accomplish goals; monitors progress and evaluates outcomes.
Results Orientation: Concern for holding yourself and others accountable for
achieving results or for surpassing a standard of excellence. It includes the
process of setting measurable objectives, implementing change and then
checking back to determine the effect of your efforts. The standard may be
one’s own past performance (striving for improvement); an objective measure
(results orientation); outperforming others (competitiveness); challenging goals
one has set, or even what anyone has ever done (innovation). Systems
Thinking: Orientation to think in system-wide terms with regard to functions or
divisions within the organisation. This includes spotting opportunities to
connect the initiatives underway in other areas or proactively sharing
information or resources that can be seen to have relevance and impact for
others. Vision and Purpose: Modelling and promoting high personal and
professional standards that support the organisation’s vision, mandate and
values. Sharing goals, objectives and ideas to encourage others to commit to
and be enthusiastic about realising the vision. Computer literacy: Knowledge
and ability to use computers and technology efficiently. Refers to the comfort
level someone has with using computer programs and other applications
associated with computers (MS Office, Internet, email). Includes the ability to
learn new applications associated with the business. Government Knowledge:
Knowledge of the tiers and sectors of government and inter-governmental
relationships, and the economic and social development priorities and
programmes of national, provincial and local governments. Administrative
Operations: Knowledge, capabilities and practices associated with the support
of administrative and management activities to facilitate organizational and
mission goals and objectives. This competency requires knowledge of the
appropriate rules, regulations, processes and associated systems within
various enabling functions which may include human resources management,
resource management, employee support services, documentation,
procurement and financial management. Project Management: Knowledge of
project management principles, methods, or tools for appraising,
conceptualising, structuring, scheduling, coordinating, and managing projects
and resources, including monitoring, evaluating and reporting on project
impact, costs, work, and contractor performance.
DUTIES : The purpose of the role is to manage, organise and coordinate office operations
and procedures (DDG’s office) to ensure organisational effectiveness and
efficiency within the Jobs Fund. Operational Office Support: Manage the
Deputy Director General: Employment Facilitation’s (DDG: EF) office, including
the organisation and coordination of all operational and administrative
processes. Reviewing, analysing and providing a quality assurance function of
all submissions/memoranda, i.e. project submissions, budgets and
correspondence, etc., before approval by the DDG: EF. Collate and compile
reports or correspondence for the DDG: EF, e.g., Progress reports,
Memoranda/Submissions, letters, etc, when required, which includes
reference and delegation letters. Assist in drafting Terms of Reference
concerning services required and issued through appropriate Supply Chain
Management channels and serve on the Bid Evaluation Committee (BEC) as
needed. Implement and advise administrators on processes to follow
concerning DDG’s office. Business Operations: Providing secretariat services
to the Management Committee, including minute taking, recording of actions
and decisions, tracking of deliverables emanating from the meeting, as well as
consolidating and updating the Balance Scorecard. Conduct annual updates
of the Management and Operations Committee’s Terms of Reference.
Maintaining a daily action log about deliverables that are due for the
Management team and following up timeously concerning the completion of
deliverables. Management of Jobs Fund submissions to GTAC and the
National Treasury, including the Acting Head, Director General and the
Minister. Overseeing submissions to the DDG: EF’s office, including the status
of the submission/s and the action required (tracking schedule). Represent the
Jobs Fund at the Government Technical Advisory Committee (GTAC)
Operations Management meetings and other forums where necessary.
Compile and follow up on the deliverables for the Financial Year-End Checklist.
Compile the Gifts and Donations Register for the Jobs Fund per financial year.
Coordinate weekly administrative team meetings. Track finalisation of
Balanced Scorecard and conduct quality assurance on the Learning & Growth
41
deliverable tracker. Managing the administrative processes around the new
user profiles, access cards and vetting forms, etc. Manage the Signing Hub
workflow for documents that require approval. Responsible for the
management and maintenance of an electronic document management
system in the DDG: EF’s office. Ensure the protection and security of files and
records. Produce and maintain a Business Calendar on an annual basis for the
organisation. Review travel plans and team travel submissions before
submission to the DDG. Assist with queries and issue resolution as needed.
Assist in the update of the Jobs Fund Standard Operating Procedures and
maintain the Operating Guidelines action log and prepare supporting
memoranda. Managing admin/client-related matters pertaining to the DDG’s
office. Coordinate and assist with preparations for the Jobs Fund Strategic
Planning sessions. Human Resource Support: Coordination of human
resource functions, i.e., recruitment of new staff members, including review of
advertisements, job descriptions, and appointment documents, contract
renewals, management of leave, compilation of organisation training plan,
update of Jobs Fund establishment, etc. Maintain the Jobs Fund organogram,
induction folder, and job description repository. Coordinating and managing the
Performance Management process for all staff by ensuring all staff members
complete a Performance Agreement on an annual basis. Review and quality
assure all Performance Reviews and Performance Evaluations for all Jobs
Fund staff on an annual basis. Provide a secretariat function for the moderation
committee meetings (Performance), present all performance scores for staff
and draft minutes of the meeting. Produce the Jobs Fund internal training plan,
manage and implement the plan. Provide the necessary support to staff when
training is requested, i.e. drafting memorandums, requesting quotations,
completion of short course forms, tax clearance certificates, central supplier
database information, etc. Act as the administrative liaison for Human
Resources, including internal administration of the recruitment of new staff
members, contract renewals, management of leave, compilation of
organisation training plan, induction, etc. Finance and Procurement: Assist the
Director: Finance in compiling and maintaining the Jobs Fund budget. Review
disbursements, transfer of funds submissions, payment of invoices, cost
recovery and transfer of funds documentation, ensuring accuracy and
completeness. Management and oversight of inventory. Assist in the review of
procurement-related matters for the Jobs Fund. Assist in reviewing and/or
preparing information for audit purposes. Review the travel schedule and
analyse the associated costs. Event Management: Assist in managing,
organising, and providing logistical support for Jobs Fund events such as
learning forums, team-building activities, and brown bag sessions, etc. Assist
in managing client-related matters and queries about the event.
ENQUIRIES : Kaizer Malakoane at 066 250 7072
APPLICATIONS : Email: Kaizer.malakoane@gtac.gov.za
POST 43/56 : FINANCIAL ANALYST: JOBS FUND PMU REF NO: G20/2025
Term: 24 Months Fixed-Term contract
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive), PSR 44 will apply to candidates
appointed in the Salary Level.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree/ Advanced Diploma/ BTech (NQF 7) in Finance, Project
Finance or Economics or related field. A postgraduate qualification in Finance
would be advantageous. Minimum 4 years post-training/ internship experience.
Experience in public sector would be advantageous. Competencies Required:
Client Service Orientation: The ability to interact with and respond to internal
and external client needs and expectations in a manner that puts into practice
the Batho Pele spirit and meets and exceeds service delivery standards, with
priority given to client satisfaction. Concern for Quality and Order: The desire
to see things done logically, clearly and well. It takes various forms: monitoring
and checking work and information, insisting on the clarity of roles and duties,
setting up and maintaining information system. Effective Communication: The
ability to transmit and receive information clearly and communicate effectively
to others by considering their points of view in order to respond appropriately.
This may involve listening, interpreting, formulating and delivering verbal, non-
verbal, written, and/or electronic messages. It includes the ability to convey
ideas and information in a way that brings understanding to the target
audience. Emotional Intelligence: The capacity for recognising their own
42
feelings and those of others, for motivating themselves and others as a result
of this awareness, and for managing emotions within themselves and in others.
Integrity/ Honest: Contributes to maintaining the integrity of the organisation;
displays high standards of ethical conduct and understands the impact of
violating these standards on an organisation, self, and others; is trustworthy.
Problem Solving and Analysis: The ability to understanding a situation, issue,
problem, etc., by breaking it into smaller pieces, or tracing the implications of a
situation in a step-by-step way. It includes organising the parts of a problem,
situation, etc., in a systematic way; making systematic comparisons of different
features or aspects; setting priorities on a rational basis; and identifying time
sequences, causal relationships, or if-then relationships. Create timely and
well-developed solutions by examining alternatives, risks and consequences.
Resources Planning: Organises work, sets priorities and determines resource
requirements; determines short- or long-term goals and strategies to achieve
them; coordinates with other organisations or parts of the organisation to
accomplish goals; monitors progress and evaluates outcomes. Team
Participation: The ability to work cooperatively with others, to work together as
opposed to working separately or competitively. Valuing Diversity: The ability
to understand and respect the practices, customs, values and norms of other
individuals, groups and cultures. It goes beyond what is required by
governmental employment equity regulations to include the ability to respect
and value different points of view, and to be open to others of different
backgrounds or perspectives. It includes seeing others’ differences as a
positive part of the work environment. It also means being able to work well
with a wide variety of people representing different backgrounds, cultures and
socio-economic levels. Vision and Purpose: Modelling and promoting high
personal and professional standards that support the organisation’s vision,
mandate and values. Sharing goals, objectives and ideas to encourage others
to commit to and be enthusiastic about realising the vision. Computer literacy:
Knowledge and ability to use computers and technology efficiently. Refers to
the comfort level someone has with using computer programs and other
applications associated with computers (MS Office, Internet, email). Includes
the ability to learn new applications associated with the business. Development
Financing: Knowledge of development financing approaches and methods,
including the financing of long-term projects and public services based upon a
non-recourse or limited recourse financial structure, in which project debt and
equity used to finance the project are paid back from the cash flow generated
by the project. Economic Development: Knowledge of South African economic
development policies and programmes with a specific focus on approaches
and methodologies to making markets work for the poor. Financial Analysis:
Knowledge of financial data analysis, including the ability to collect and monitor
data, conduct financial modelling, analyse results, monitor variances, identify
trends, recommend actions and assist with annual and quarterly forecasting.
This further includes knowledge of types of agreements/contracts typically
used in non/limited recourse finance. Government Knowledge: Knowledge of
the tiers and sectors of government and inter-governmental relationships, and
the economic and social development priorities and programmes of national,
provincial and local governments. Grant Management: Knowledge of grant
funding (non-repayable funds) approaches and methods and the regulatory
environment governing the management of public funds. This includes
knowledge of the South African grant funding reforms initiative and grant
management systems. Internal Control/ Audit: Knowledge of how to evaluate
control systems for financial, administrative, programme, and operational
activities to provide reasonable assurances that obligations, costs and
disbursements comply with applicable regulations and laws, that property is
funded, and assets are safeguarded; and that revenues and expenditures
applicable to operations are properly recorded and accounted. Labour
Markets: Knowledge of how labour markets work and the current active labour
market policy interventions. Legislative knowledge: Knowledge of the
regulatory environment and processes regarding the implementation of
policies, legislation and service delivery programmes, and knowledge of the
PFMA and NT regulations pertaining to the Jobs Fund. Project Management:
Knowledge of project management principles, methods, or tools for appraising,
conceptualising, structuring, scheduling, coordinating, and managing projects
and resources, including monitoring, evaluating and reporting on project
impact, costs, work, and contractor performance. Public Finance Economics:
43
Knowledge of the field of economics that studies government activities and the
alternative means of financing them.
DUTIES : To analyse corporate financials and appraise investment proposals from public,
private and non-governmental organisations as they relate to Jobs Fund
applications and the Jobs Fund portfolio of investments in activities that
contribute directly to enhanced employment creation in South Africa. Jobs
Fund Regulatory Framework: Prepare and maintain mandated documents as
required. Review Jobs Fund (JF)policies for alignment with accounting
standards and provide explanations on processes and techniques and
recommend actions. Assist Jobs Fund staff in interpreting laws, rules, and
regulations, and clarifying procedures. Assist the JF in the management and
interpretation of the Auditing regulations and procedures. Jobs Fund
applications and investment opportunities appraisals: Appraise new investment
proposals (due diligence) and opportunities submitted through the Calls for
Proposals. To conduct a financial appraisal of the application, which includes
analysing the proposed financial model. Utilise and Quality Assure the Activity
Based Costing Project Implementation Monitoring Plan (ABC PIMP) to capture
and review the Application proposals. Determine optimal funding allocations
including: Establishing standard costs across models; Collecting operational
data on models. Conduct commercial analysis, financial modelling and
analysis, risk analysis and institutional analysis. Prepare appraisal reports for
submission. Review proposed contracts for adherence to Jobs Fund policy,
existing laws and regulations. Negotiate project Appraisal documents. Jobs
Fund Portfolio of Investment Analysis: Analyse investment project reports and
corporate financials. Examine accounting data for accuracy, appropriateness
and documentation. Compare and analyse actual results with plans and
forecasts to identify financial status and monitor variances. Audit documents
submitted for payment verify compliance with Jobs Fund guidelines. Identify,
report and ensure resolution of non-compliance issues and project risks.
Prepare disbursement request reports for consideration. Monitor and check
approved disbursements to projects. Monitor and report on project progress
post-investment. Prepare and submit surplus Memos for implementation
projects. Jobs Fund performance and reporting: Coordinate with other
members of the JF Project Management Unit (PMU) to review financial
information and forecasts. Analyse current and past financial data and
performance, identify trends in financial performance and provide
recommendations for improvement. Provide information and technical support
in the development and revision of policies and regulations. Assist with the
compilation of data, financial reports and interpretation of legislated financial
reporting requirements and regulations. Review and verify statistical and
financial information and prepare financial reports as requested. Analyse and
interpret data, conduct comparative analyses and recommend actions. Jobs
Fund Support: Liaise with implementing stakeholders and promote a culture of
adherence towards efficiency and achievement of value for money. Promote
knowledge management through research and publication of papers. Maintain
communication with staff regarding financial matters. Manage team dynamics
in order to meet the Fund’s objectives. Assist with the development and
maintenance of financial models and forecasting methodologies and tools.
ENQUIRIES : Kaizer Malakoane at 066 250 7072
APPLICATIONS : Email: Kaizer.malakoane@gtac.gov.za
POST 43/57 : MONITORING AND REPORTING SPECIALIST: JOBS FUND PMU REF NO:
G21/2025 (X2 POSTS)
Term: 24 Months Fixed-Term contract
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive), PSR 44 will apply to candidates
appointed in the Salary Level.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelors’ Degree/ Advanced Diploma/ BTech (NQF 7) in Economics, Social
Sciences or related field. A Postgraduate qualification in monitoring and
evaluation, and/or statistical analysis would be advantageous. 6 – 8 years'
experience in monitoring, measurement and evaluation of development
programmes/ projects, at least two years of experience at a management level.
Experience in the public service would be advantageous. Competencies
Required: Client Service Orientation: The ability to interact with and respond to
internal and external client needs and expectations in a manner that puts into
practice the Batho Pele spirit and meets and exceeds service delivery
44
standards, with priority given to client satisfaction. Effective Communication:
The ability to transmit and receive information clearly and communicate
effectively to others by considering their points of view in order to respond
appropriately. This may involve listening, interpreting, formulating and
delivering verbal, non-verbal, written, and/or electronic messages. It includes
the ability to convey ideas and information in a way that brings understanding
to the target audience. Information Sharing: Both the motivation to expand and
use one's knowledge and the willingness to share this knowledge with others.
Integrity/ Honesty: Contributes to maintaining the integrity of the organisation;
displays high standards of ethical conduct and understands the impact of
violating these standards on an organisation, self, and others; is trustworthy.
Networking and Influencing: Establishes, maintains and utilizes a relevant
network of contacts in order to keep a pulse on public, political and internal
issues and make informed decisions. It implies an intention to persuade,
convince, influence, or impress others in order to meet the intended objectives.
Organisational Awareness: The ability to understand and learn the power
relationships in one’s own organisation or in other organisations. This includes
the ability to identify the real decision makers; the individuals who can influence
them; and to predict how new events or situations will affect individuals and
groups within the Department. Problem Solving and Analysis: The ability to
understanding a situation, issue, problem, etc., by breaking it into smaller
pieces, or tracing the implications of a situation in a step-by-step way. It
includes organizing the parts of a problem, situation, etc., in a systematic way;
making systematic comparisons of different features or aspects; setting
priorities on a rational basis; and identifying time sequences, causal
relationships, or if-then relationships. Create timely and well-developed
solutions by examining alternatives, risks and consequences. Resources
Planning: Organizes work, sets priorities and determines resource
requirements; determines short- or long-term goals and strategies to achieve
them; coordinates with other organisations or parts of the organisation to
accomplish goals; monitors progress and evaluates outcomes. Results
Orientation: Concern for holding yourself and others accountable for achieving
results or for surpassing a standard of excellence. It includes the process of
setting measurable objectives, implementing change and then checking back
to determine the effect of your efforts. The standard may be one’s own past
performance (striving for improvement); an objective measure (results
orientation); outperforming others (competitiveness); challenging goals one
has set, or even what anyone has ever done (innovation). Systems Thinking:
Orientation to think in system-wide terms with regards to functions or divisions
within the organisation. This includes spotting opportunities to connect the
initiatives underway in other areas or proactively sharing information or
resources that can be seen to have relevance and impact for others. Vision
and Purpose: Modelling and promoting high personal and professional
standards that support the organisation’s vision, mandate and values. Sharing
goals, objectives and ideas to encourage others to commit to and be
enthusiastic about realising the vision. Computer literacy: Knowledge and
ability to use computers and technology efficiently. Refers to the comfort level
someone has with using computer programs and other applications associated
with computers (MS Office, Internet, email). Includes the ability to learn new
applications associated with the business. Data Analysis: Relevant experience
and knowledge on how to collect reliable, valid and accurate data and perform
objective analysis. Database Management: Knowledge of the principles,
procedures, and tools of data management, such as modelling techniques,
data backup, data recovery, data dictionaries, data warehousing, data mining,
data disposal, and data standardization processes. Development Financing:
Knowledge of development financing approaches and methods including the
financing of long-term projects and public services based upon a non-recourse
or limited recourse financial structure, in which project debt and equity used to
finance the project are paid back from the cash flow generated by the project.
Economic Development: Knowledge of South African economic development
policies and programmes with a specific focus on approaches and
methodologies to making markets work for the poor. Monitoring, Evaluation and
Reporting: In-depth knowledge of establishing monitoring and evaluation
frameworks and indicators, and development and implementation of qualitative
and quantitative monitoring, evaluation and reporting approaches,
methodologies and tools. Government Knowledge: Knowledge of the tiers and
sectors of government and inter-governmental relationships, and the economic
45
and social development priorities and programmes of national, provincial and
local governments. Grant Management: Knowledge of grant funding (non-
repayable funds) approaches and methods and the regulatory environment
governing the management of public funds. This includes knowledge of the
South African grant funding reforms initiative and grant management systems.
Information Management: The ability to gather, prepare, house and share the
organisationally-relevant information produced or found through work in a
manner that creates easy access and understanding, and that informs and
educates the reader regarding the subject. Labour Markets: Knowledge of how
labour markets work and the current active labour market policy interventions.
Legislative knowledge: Knowledge of the regulatory environment and
processes regarding the implementation of policies, legislation and service
delivery programmes, and knowledge of the PFMA and NT regulations
pertaining to the Jobs Fund. Project Management: Knowledge of project
management principles, methods, or tools for appraising, conceptualising,
structuring, scheduling, coordinating, and managing projects and resources,
including monitoring, evaluating and reporting on project impact, costs, work,
and contractor performance. Public Finance Economics: Knowledge of the field
of economics that studies government activities and the alternative means of
financing them.
DUTIES : Jobs Fund (JF) Projects Monitoring and Reporting Planning: Design and
develop monitoring and measurement plans for JF projects at project inception
to ensure integration of monitoring and measurement at all project phases.
Participate in Monitoring & Reporting (M&R) planning and design meetings for
the: determination of project outcomes, outputs and measurement criteria,
design of results chains, identification of data sources for baseline
assessments, and development of data collection methods. Develop and
submit proposals for JF projects' monitoring and reporting systems. Collate,
process and lodge JF projects' monitoring and measurement plans. Establish
and communicate JF projects’ monitoring and reporting schedule and
requirements. Appraise the Project Implementation Monitoring Plans and
Theory of Change of new project applications. Advise on the use of job proxies
when required. JF Projects Monitoring and Reporting Administration: Review
JF project reports from the Grant Management System (GMS). Test the validity
and integrity of the Jobs Fund Partner project-reported information against
norms and standards, review the evidence submitted by Jobs Fund Partners
for accuracy and facilitate the corrections, where required. Align with DCED
standards. Prepare recommendations for the enhancement of processes and
procedures. Disseminate data for reporting purposes. Participate in meetings,
workshops and other discussion forums to establish dialogue on reported
project progress and evaluation results. Ensure that M&R records and
evidence are up to date and audit-ready. Conduct sample reviews of project
reports and evidence. Monitoring and reporting capacity development and
learning: On-going liaison and engagement with Jobs Fund stakeholders
regarding the monitoring, evaluation and reporting on all aspects of the project.
Conduct awareness and promotion sessions for stakeholders on the utilisation
of results-based monitoring, measurement and reporting tools and systems
and the Jobs Fund reporting mechanisms. Collate, distribute and file learning
reports from client feedback, case studies, reviews and project evaluations.
Participate in research networks on job creation, employment and systemic
change, and collect, collate, distribute and file participation reports. Monitoring
and reporting processes and tools research and development: Participate in
research and benchmarking projects with established international institutions
on best practices and trends pertaining to monitoring and reporting, and the
preparation, distribution and filing of research reports. Integrate findings into
monitoring and evaluation tools and practices. Maintain and update, as
required, JF projects’ monitoring, evaluation and reporting processes,
procedures and tools and processes for, inter alia, record keeping and
referencing. Maintain JF internal and external platforms and mechanisms for
the dissemination and interpretation of information.
ENQUIRIES : Kaizer Malakoane at 066 250 7072
APPLICATIONS : Email: Kaizer.malakoane@gtac.gov.za
46
POST 43/58 : EVALUATION AND LEARNING SPECIALIST: JOBS FUND PMU REF NO:
G22/2025
Term: 24 Months Fixed-Term contract
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive), PSR 44 will apply to candidates
appointed in the Salary Level.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree/ Advanced Diploma/ BTech (NQF 7) in M&E, Development,
Public Administration, Economics or related field. A Postgraduate qualification
in M&E, social sciences or equivalent experience and education would be
advantageous. Training or certification in statistics and quantitative
measurements would be advantageous.6-8 years’ experience in monitoring,
measurement and evaluation of development programmes/ projects;
conducting evaluations and writing evaluation reports, at least 2 years of
experience at a management level. Experience capturing both good practices
and lessons learned, in a variety of approaches (e.g. end of the project
evaluation, special studies); Experience in project design and evaluation;
Experience in research, policy analysis and evaluation of donor-funded
projects; Experience of Donor Communities and Development of Enterprise
Standards; Experience in the preparation of evaluation reports for different
audiences – technical, management, government, donors and other
stakeholders; Experience in application of leading qualitative and quantitative
data collection, analysis and reporting tools; Experience in managing projects
with multiple stakeholders and Excellent report-writing skills. Competencies
Required: Client Service Orientation: Client-service orientation implies helping
or serving others, to meet their needs. It means focusing on discovering those
needs and understanding how to best meet them, as well as putting into
practice the Batho Pele spirit. The term 'clients' refers to both internal and
external clients. Effective Communication: Ability to transmit and receive
information clearly and communicate effectively to others by considering their
points of view in order to respond appropriately. This may involve listening,
interpreting, formulating and delivering verbal, non-verbal, written, and/or
electronic messages. It includes the ability to convey ideas and intonation in a
way that brings understanding to the target audience. Networking and
Influencing: Establishes, maintains and utilises a relevant network of contacts
in order to keep a pulse on public, political and internal issues and make
informed decisions. It implies an intention to persuade, convince, influence, or
impress others in order to meet the intended objectives. Organisational
Awareness: Refers to the ability to understand and learn the power
relationships in one's own organisation or in other organisations. This includes
the ability to identify the real decision-makers, the individuals who can influence
them, and to predict how new events or situations will affect individuals and
groups within the Department. Resilience: Ability to cap one's emotions to
avoid negative reactions when provoked, when faced with opposition or
hostility, or when working under stress. It also includes the ability to maintain
stamina under continuing stress. Resources Planning: Organises work, sets
priorities and determines resource requirements; determines short- or long-
term goals and strategies to achieve them; coordinates with other
organisations or parts of the organisation to accomplish goals; monitors
progress and evaluates outcomes. Problem Solving and Analysis:
Understanding a situation, issue, problem, etc., by breaking it into smaller
pieces, or tracing the implications of a situation in a step-by-step way. It
includes organising the parts of a problem, situation, etc., systematically;
making systematic comparisons of different features or aspects; setting
priorities on a rational basis; and identifying time sequences, causal
relationships, or correlations. Create timely and well-developed solutions by
examining alternative risks and consequences. Computer Literacy: Knowledge
and ability to use computers and technology efficiently. Refers to the comfort
level someone has with using computer programs and other applications
associated with computers (MS Office, Internet, email). Database
management: Knowledge of the principles, procedures, and tools of data
management, such as modelling techniques, data backup, data recovery, data
dictionaries, data warehousing, data mining, data disposal, and data
standardisation processes. Evaluation methodologies: In-depth understanding
of various methodologies in evaluation, both qualitative and quantitative, such
as surveys, record reviews, focus groups and case studies and ability to
identify appropriate methodology. Project Management: Sound understanding
47
(and preferably hands-on experience) of logical framework approach, project
cycle management and other strategic planning approaches. Also, In-depth
knowledge of results-based planning, monitoring, and reporting of
programme/project management. Data Analysis: Relevant experience and
knowledge on how to collect reliable, valid and accurate data and perform
objective analysis.
DUTIES : To support knowledge-sharing and learning culture at the Jobs Fund.
Contribute to the documentation and dissemination of key lessons learned to
improve the implementation of projects, and the measurement and evaluation
of projects’ performance. Implement processes and procedures for accurate
performance monitoring and evaluation results. Evaluation and Support:
Execute the Jobs Fund Evaluation Framework and Learning Agenda. Support
the evaluation of projects and extract learnings from the Jobs Fund portfolio.
Provide the inputs to the Terms of Reference for evaluations and manage the
service provider selection process. Manage the service providers secured to
carry out project-level evaluations. Provide inputs into the design of baseline
assessments, formative evaluations, mid-term evaluations and summative
evaluations for projects. Support partners in the development of results chains
for their projects. Plan for, design and conduct formative, process and
summative evaluations. Utilise evaluation results to improve project roll-out and
to appraise new projects. Promote and Enhance Learning: Analyse and
synthesise findings from project evaluations. Support awareness sessions with
partners on evaluations, results-based management and project close-outs.
Perform benchmarking and learning exercises on job creation, sustainability
and systemic change. Document feedback on learnings from case studies,
reviews, project close-out reports and other related factors. Engage in activities
related to the synthesis and dissemination of lessons learned by the Jobs
Fund. Support evaluation outputs and facilitate the implementation of
recommendations from evaluations. Client Engagement: Liaise and engage
with stakeholders on learning and evaluation at the project level and Jobs Fund
level. Providing support to Jobs Fund Partners to ensure post-Jobs Fund
success. Appraise the Project Implementation Monitoring Plans and Theory of
Change of new project applications. Advise on the use of job proxies when
required. Evaluation and Learning Framework: Support the JF in meeting
evaluation and learning targets. Support the development of a learning
framework with each business unit in the Jobs Fund. Provide technical support
to project managers and the Communications Unit to develop and document
compelling outcome and impact success stories, and to foster
institutionalisation and internalisation of learning processes. Contribute to the
training of project managers and partners on evaluation methodologies.
Management of Data and Systems: Identify opportunities to optimise the Job
Fund’s collection, use, and management of data. Support the training for Jobs
Fund staff on the use of systems and effective data collection, use, and
visualisation. Simplify complex systems and processes into user-friendly
guidance for staff. Collaborate with the grants management system (GMS)
team and unit staff on broader system enhancements. Data Analysis, Research
and Learning: Provide technical support to short- and long-term research,
analysis, and information gathering assignments in support of evaluation and
learning efforts. Manage, analyse, and effectively visualise large and complex
data sets. Coordinate and respond to internal and external requests for data
and data analysis. Support the synthesis of Jobs Fund knowledge, knowledge
dissemination and active engagement of wider market players. Support the
systematic recording of the social impact of Jobs Fund projects. JFPs already
report social impact through narratives in quarterly reporting. Monitoring and
Evaluation System: Execute the overall framework of the monitoring and
evaluation activities. Assess the validity of monitoring and evaluation data
through regular and ad-hoc review of activities. Draft, revise and update tools
and data collection procedures (e.g. logical framework, project performance
tracking, indicators, data flow chart, M&E manuals). Support the Monitoring,
Evaluation, Reporting and Learning Lead in defining and implementing key
project performance indicators (KPI) as well as monitoring them throughout the
duration of projects.
ENQUIRIES : Kaizer Malakoane at 066 250 7072
APPLICATIONS : Email: Kaizer.malakoane@gtac.gov.za
48
POST 43/59 : PROJECT MANAGER: JOBS FUND PMU REF NO: G23/2025 (X2 POSTS)
Term: 24 Months Fixed-Term contract
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive), PSR 44 will apply to candidates
appointed in the Salary Level
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree/ Advanced Diploma/ BTech (NQF 7) in Development
Finance; Economics; Business Management; Project Management; Project
Finance, or a related field. A postgraduate qualification in Development
Finance, Economics, Business Management, Project Management and Project
Finance would be advantageous. Minimum 5 years’ experience in a project
management or programme management position, at least 2 years of
experience at a management level. Competencies Required: Client Service
Orientation: The ability to interact with and respond to internal and external
client needs and expectations in a manner that puts into practice the Batho
Pele spirit and meets and exceeds service delivery standards, with priority
given to client satisfaction. Commitment to Learning: Actively pursue learning
and development in order to achieve results and contribute to continuous
improvement. Supports and encourages the learning and development of
others. Concern for Quality and Order: The desire to see things done logically,
clearly and well. It takes various forms: monitoring and checking work and
information, insisting on the clarity of roles and duties, and setting up and
maintaining an information system. Effective Communication: The ability to
transmit and receive information clearly and communicate effectively to others
by considering their points of view in order to respond appropriately. This may
involve listening, interpreting, formulating and delivering verbal, non-verbal,
written, and/or electronic messages. It includes the ability to convey ideas and
information in a way that brings understanding to the target audience.
Emotional Intelligence: The capacity for recognising their own feelings and
those of others, for motivating themselves and others as a result of this
awareness, and for managing emotions within themselves and in others.
Information Sharing: Both the motivation to expand and use one's knowledge
and the willingness to share this knowledge with others. Integrity/ Honesty:
Contributes to maintaining the integrity of the organisation; displays high
standards of ethical conduct and understands the impact of violating these
standards on an organisation, self, and others; is trustworthy. Problem Solving
and Analysis: The ability to understand a situation, issue, problem, etc., by
breaking it into smaller pieces or tracing the implications of a situation in a step-
by-step way. It includes organising the parts of a problem, situation, etc.,
systematically; making systematic comparisons of different features or
aspects; setting priorities on a rational basis; and identifying time sequences,
causal relationships, or if-then relationships. Create timely and well-developed
solutions by examining alternatives, risks and consequences. Financial
Analysis: Knowledge of financial data analysis, including the ability to collect
and monitor data, analyse results, monitor variances, identify trends,
recommend actions and assist with annual and quarterly forecasting. Results
Orientation: Concern for holding yourself and others accountable for achieving
results or for surpassing a standard of excellence. It includes the process of
setting measurable objectives, implementing change and then checking back
to determine the effect of your efforts. The standard may be one’s own past
performance (striving for improvement); an objective measure (results
orientation); outperforming others (competitiveness); challenging goals one
has set, or even what anyone has ever done (innovation). Systems Thinking:
Orientation to think in system-wide terms with regard to functions or divisions
within the organisation. This includes spotting opportunities to connect the
initiatives underway in other areas or proactively sharing information or
resources that can be seen to have relevance and impact on others. Team
Participation: The ability to work cooperatively with others, to work together as
opposed to working separately or competitively. Administrative Operations:
Knowledge, capabilities and practices associated with the support of
administrative and management activities to facilitate organisational and
mission goals and objectives. This competency requires knowledge of the
appropriate rules, regulations, processes and associated systems within
various enabling functions, which may include human resources management,
resource management, employee support services, documentation,
procurement and financial management. Computer literacy: Knowledge and
ability to use computers and technology efficiently. Refers to the comfort level
49
someone has with using computer programs and other applications associated
with computers (MS Office, Internet, email). Includes the ability to learn new
applications associated with the business. Development Financing: Knowledge
of development financing approaches and methods, including the financing of
long-term projects and public services based upon a non-recourse or limited
recourse financial structure, in which project debt and equity used to finance
the project are paid back from the cash flow generated by the project. Grant
Management: Knowledge of grant funding (non-repayable funds) approaches
and methods and the regulatory environment governing the management of
public funds. This includes knowledge of the South African grant funding
reforms initiative and grant management systems. Labour Markets: Knowledge
of how labour markets work and the current active labour market policy
interventions. Legislative knowledge: Knowledge of the regulatory environment
and processes regarding the implementation of policies, legislation and
services delivery programmes, and knowledge of the NT and/or DPSA and/or
other regulatory prescripts regarding: procurement, contract management and
services payment, Jobs Fund and grants management and llabour
management and employment in South Africa. Project Budget Management:
Knowledge of regulations regarding the management of public finances, and
the methodologies, processes and tools for managing project budgets
including the forecasting, implementing, monitoring, evaluating and reporting
on expenditure activities and schedules. Project Governance: Knowledge of
project risk management analysis and risk controls design, and conducting of
due diligence exercises and project audits. Project Management: Knowledge
of project management principles, methods, or tools for appraising,
conceptualising, structuring, scheduling, coordinating, and managing projects
and resources, including monitoring, evaluating and reporting on project
impact, costs, work, and contractor performance. Resources Planning:
Organizes work, sets priorities and determines resource requirements;
determines short- or long-term goals and strategies to achieve them;
coordinates with other organisations or parts of the organisation to accomplish
goals; monitors progress and evaluates outcomes.
DUTIES : To lead in the planning, managing, organising, and monitoring of project
implementation in the Jobs Fund and contribute to the knowledge and learning
agenda of the Jobs Fund. Project Management: Manage project plans,
deliverables, financials, dependencies and outcomes of assigned projects to
ensure that the project goals and objectives are achieved within the project
timeframe and guidelines by the relevant stakeholders and management
committees. Manage overall project risk through identified mitigation
processes proactively with project stakeholders to avoid project delivery,
problems and delays. Manage the successful implementation of projects for
the full cycle of each project, including: Project induction sessions; quality
maintenance of project records and documentation; guidance and direction in
terms of project objectives and operations; analysis and reporting on project
products (e.g. business plans and project plans); support data population and
manage information; monitoring and evaluation of projects; project cash flows
and expenditure reporting; and conduct commercial analysis, financial
modelling and analysis, risk analysis and institutional analysis. Ensure Project
documentation conforms to agreed standards and procedures, and review
progress against milestones and targets. Do a qualitative analysis of
documents. Compile and present project status reports to provide project
updates on activities and deliverables. Assist with ensuring that governance
requirements of professional project management and those applicable to the
National Treasury and Municipality are adhered to. Make recommendations
aligned with the project specifications, ensuring that the specifics of the project
are being adhered to. Strategic Management and Planning: Manage projects
and portfolio activities in line with strategies and policies. Design and
implement any strategic management and planning aspects as directed.
Financial Management: Contribute to the efficient financial and technical
management of Jobs Fund projects. Ensure project deliverables stay on time,
on-target and in-budget. Coordinate with other members of the JF PMU to
review financial information and forecasts. Compare and analyse actual results
with plans and forecasts to identify financial status and monitor variances.
Analyse current and past financial data and performance, identify trends in
financial performance and provide recommendations for improvement. Assist
with the compilation of data, financial reports and interpretation of legislated
financial reporting requirements and regulations. Stakeholder engagement:
50
Establish and maintain an effective relationship with the National Treasury and
other government departments, the private investor community, official
development agencies and other stakeholders. Identify and liaise with relevant
project stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Kaizer Malakoane at 066 250 7072
APPLICATIONS : Email: Kaizer.malakoane@gtac.gov.za
POST 43/60 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATOR: JOBS FUND PMU REF NO: G24/2025
Term: 24 Months Fixed-Term contract
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), plus 37% in lieu of benefits, PSR 44 will apply
to candidates appointed in the Salary Level.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree (NQF 7) in Paralegal studies or related fields / LLB Degree
(NQF level 8). At least 3 – 5 years’ experience in a legal firm or legal
environment. Competencies Required: Organisational Awareness: Refers to
the ability to understand and learn the power relationships in one’s own
organisation or in other organisations. This includes the ability to identify the
real decision makers, the individuals who can influence them, and to predict
how new events or situations will affect individuals and groups within the
Department. Client Service Orientation: Client-service orientation implies
helping or serving others to meet their needs. It means focusing on discovering
those needs, figuring out how to best meet them, as well as putting into practice
the Batho Pele spirit. The term "clients" refers to both internal and external
dents. Problem Solving and Analysis: Understanding a situation, issue,
problem, etc., by breaking it into smaller pieces, or tracing the implications of a
situation in a step-by-step way. It includes organising the parts of a problem,
situation, etc., in a systematic way; making systematic comparisons of different
features or aspects; setting priorities on a rational basis; and identifying time
sequences, causal relationships, or if-then relationships. Create timely and
well-developed solutions by examining alternatives, risks and consequences.
Effective Communication: Ability to transmit and receive information clearly and
communicate effectively to others by considering their points of view to respond
appropriately. This may involve listening, interpreting, formulating and
delivering verbal, non-verbal, written, and/or electronic messages. It includes
the ability to convey ideas and information in a way that brings understanding
to the target audience. Concern for Quality and Order: Desire to see things
done logically, clearly and well. It takes various forms: monitoring and checking
work and information, insisting on the clarity of roles and duties and setting up
and maintaining information systems. Integrity/ Honesty: Contributes to
maintaining the integrity of the organisation; displays high standards of ethical
conduct and understands the impact of violating these standards on an
organisation, self, and others; is trustworthy. Team Participation: Works co-
operatively with others, working together as opposed to working separately or
competitively. Administrative Operations: Knowledge, capabilities and
practices associated with the support of administrative and management
activities to facilitate organisational and mission goals and objectives. This
competency requires knowledge of the appropriate rules, regulations,
processes and associated systems within various enabling functions, which
may include human resources management, resource management,
employee support services, documentation, procurement and financial
management. Attention to detail is of paramount importance. Computer
Literacy: Knowledge and ability to use computers and technology efficiently.
Refers to the comfort level someone has with using computer programs and
other applications associated with computers (MS Office, Internet, email).
Supply Chain: The design, planning, execution, control and monitoring of all
activities involved in sourcing and procurement, conversion and logistics
management to provide products, services, and information that add value to
the organisation. Also includes coordination and collaboration with channel
partners, which can be suppliers, intermediaries, third-party service providers,
and customers. It integrates supply and demand management within and
across the organisation.
DUTIES : To provide legal administrative support to the Jobs Fund. Draft Legal
documents: Draft letters, including but not limited to the Jobs Fund Investment
Committee and Secondary Bank Account resolutions. Draft other legal
letters/documents as and when required by the Legal Advisors or other
governance/management structures of the Jobs Fund. Ensure the
51
letters/documents are aligned to resolutions/minutes and input documents,
which are the basis of the resolutions/minutes. Incorporate and quality assure
inputs provided by Team members/ Managers/Deputy Director General’s office
with regard to Legal documents/letters. Quality assures all submissions
emanating from the Legal Unit. Administration and Support: File management
of all Portfolio legal records and documents. Provision of portfolio statistics
(related to Legal). Quality assurance and control of all legal documentation.
Implement and maintain version control procedures on all portfolio reports,
letters/documentation. Drafting agendas, taking minutes, distributing and
collecting of documents for the Legal Unit meetings and/or any other meeting
as may be requested from time to time. Dissemination of information. Ensure
/co-ordinate fast and efficient handling of all correspondence, meeting of
deadlines for documents (determine priority and follow up). Ensure and
implement an efficient way of tracking action points from various committees.
Ensure and implement an efficient way of tracking feedback from team
members/Managers on letters/documents. Ensure and implement an efficient
way of tracking responses from JFPs/applicants on letters/documents sent to
the JFPs/applicants. Maintain a Register/Action Log of letters/documents sent
to JFP. Letters such as Intention to Withhold, Breach, Termination, Non-
compliance etc. Create, maintain, and enforce a Letters and Addenda Action
Log indicating log date, when letters were sent to the Project Team, when
feedback was received from each Project Team Member, when letters were
sent to MANCO, when received from each MANCO member, when submitted
to DDG, and when signed by DDG. This is necessary to unlock bottlenecks.
Maintain and implement an effective filing system for letters/Addenda on
OneDrive so that draft documents and final documents are easily accessible
by other JF members as may be necessary. Update, quality assure and confirm
completeness of data in the legal repository folder and physical legal files.
Client Liaison: includes query tracking, follow-up, preparation of responses and
dissemination. Abide by the timeframes, processes, procedures, etc, as set out
in the Jobs Fund’s SOPs and Operating Guidelines, which may vary from time
to time. Maintain an Action Log on Learning & Growth deliverables. Set
reminders for the Legal Unit. Remind Members about deliverables in daily
Huddles. Create and maintain an Issues Log for all implementing Projects.
Create and maintain a subsequent conditions tracker for all implementing
Projects. Create and maintain an Audit Log for all legal issues raised in Audit
Reports for all implementing Projects. Coordination: Provide Administrative
support to the Jobs Fund Legal Team by coordinating: Travel arrangements;
manage all logistics associated with workshops, conferences (not limited to
legal unit, i.e. cover JF events); setting up of meetings through the timely
distribution and confirmation of invitations, relevant documents, previous
minutes and agenda; when required, minute taking, circulation, ensuring sign
off and filing of approved minutes, and bookings of suitable venues. Organising
the necessary equipment & other event logistics. Attach source documents
before circulating legal documents/letters drafted by the incumbent and/or
Legal Advisors among Team Members and Managers for their input. Ensure
and coordinate fast and efficient handling of all correspondence, meeting of
deadlines for documents (determine priority and follow up). Preparation of
Action Logs and distribution thereof to relevant Team Members. Provide a
coordinating role for the Legal Unit during key annual activities such as
strategic planning. Quality Assurance of documents prior to submission and
sign-off. Attend to reasonable requests/ instructions from Legal Specialist
and/or legal Advisors as Unit operational requirements dictate from time to
time. Coordinate complaints and administer the Complaints Register.
Coordinate the Recoupment register and administer the Recoupment Log.
FICA verification: Review FICA documents of all Jobs Fund’s Applicants and
Implementing Partners. Conduct company checks on the organisation applying
for funding. Conduct credit screening of all directors and companies applying
and involved in the implementation of the project using different systems.
Update the FICA checklist and follow up on outstanding documents from the
relevant organisation. Sign off FICA checklist. Verify JF Partner’s secondary
bank accounts on the relevant system. General Administration: Prepare a file
of legal documents requiring signature by the Deputy Director General:
Employment Facilitation. Maintain filling system, electronic database and
accurate record keeping, i.e. RACI Project Folder. Create and maintain Legal
folders on OneDrive. Provide Legal Advisors with the requested documents
from time to time. Attend to formatting and quality assurance of legal
52
documents prior to circulation. Scan, file and send signed letters to the GMS
Manager and to the Project Team. Ensure confidentiality of information
processed during the execution of his/her function. Consolidate Legal Unit’s
Work Activity Logs on a weekly basis, submit to Legal Specialist and DDG: EF.
Client Relationship: Establish strong relationships with internal and external
stakeholders. Forward clients’ queries and complaints to the Legal Specialist,
monitor and track the responses.
ENQUIRIES : Kaizer Malakoane at 066 250 7072
APPLICATIONS : Email: Kaizer.malakoane@gtac.gov.za
POST 43/61 : MONITORING & REPORTING- EVIDENCE CHECKER: JOBS FUND PMU
REF NO: G25/2025 (X3 POSTS)
Term: 24 Months Fixed-Term contract
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), plus 37% in lieu of benefits, PSR 44 will apply
to candidates appointed in the Salary Level.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Higher Certificate/ Advanced National Certificate (NQF 5) / National Diploma
(NQF 6) in Economics or Monitoring & Evaluation or Data Quality or Finance
or Accounting/ Bookkeeping or Public Management/ Administration, Auditing or
related qualification. A minimum of 2 years’ experience in an administration/
finance/ Monitoring & Evaluation position. Proven relevant experience as a
data quality auditor/verifier will be an added advantage Competencies
Required: Stress tolerant: The ability to work in a highly pressurised and
deadline-driven environment. Attention to Detail: Exceptional attention to detail
is required. The ability to adhere to very high standards with respect to data
quality, accuracy, and the early identification of discrepancies. Client Service
Orientation: The ability to interact with and respond to internal and external
client needs and expectations in a manner that puts into practice the Batho
Pele spirit and meets and exceeds service delivery standards, with priority
given to client satisfaction. Effective Communication: The ability to transmit and
receive information clearly and communicate effectively to others by
considering their points of view in order to respond appropriately. This may
involve listening, interpreting, formulating and delivering verbal, non-verbal,
written, and/or electronic messages. Audience. Information Sharing: Both the
motivation to expand and use one's knowledge and the willingness to share
this knowledge with others. Integrity/ Honesty: Contributes to maintaining the
integrity of the organisation; displays high standards of ethical conduct and
understands the impact of violating these standards on an organisation, self,
and others; is trustworthy. Organisational Awareness: The ability to understand
and learn the power relationships in one’s own organisation or in other
organisations. This includes the ability to identify the real decision makers, the
individuals who can influence them and to predict how new events or situations
will affect individuals and groups within the Department. Problem Solving and
Analysis: The ability to understand a situation, issue, problem, etc., by breaking
it into smaller pieces, or tracing the implications of a situation in a step-by-step
way. It includes organising the parts of a problem, situation, etc., in a systematic
way; making systematic comparisons of different features or aspects; setting
priorities on a rational basis; and identifying time sequences, causal
relationships, or if-then relationships. Create timely and well-developed
solutions by examining alternatives, risks and consequences. Resources
Planning: Organises work, sets priorities and determines resource
requirements; determines short- or long-term goals and strategies to achieve
them; coordinates with other organisations or parts of the organisation to
accomplish goals; monitors progress and evaluates outcomes. Results
Orientation: Concern for holding yourself and others accountable for achieving
results or for surpassing a standard of excellence. It includes the process of
setting measurable objectives, implementing change and then checking back
to determine the effect of your efforts. The standard may be one’s own past
performance (striving for improvement); an objective measure (results
orientation); outperforming others (competitiveness); challenging goals one
has set, or even what anyone has ever done (innovation). Vision and Purpose:
Modelling and promoting high personal and professional standards that
support the organisation’s vision, mandate and values. Sharing goals,
objectives and ideas to encourage others to commit to and be enthusiastic
about realising the vision. Computer literacy: Knowledge and ability to use
computers and technology efficiently. Refers to the comfort level someone has
53
with using computer programmes and other applications associated with
computers (MS Office, Internet, email). Includes the ability to learn new
applications associated with the business. Data Verification: Relevant
experience and knowledge on how to collect reliable, valid and accurate data.
Experience in conducting data verification exercises and data quality audits.
Database Management: Knowledge of the principles, procedures, and tools of
data management, such as modelling techniques, data backup, data recovery,
data dictionaries, data warehousing, data mining, data disposal, and data
standardisation processes. Development Financing: Knowledge of
development financing approaches and methods, including the financing of
long-term projects and public services based upon a non-recourse or limited
recourse financial structure, in which project debt and equity used to finance
the project are paid back from the cash flow generated by the project.
Economic Development: Knowledge of South African economic development
policies and programmes with a specific focus on approaches and
methodologies to making markets work for the poor. Monitoring, and Reporting:
Knowledge of monitoring and evaluation frameworks and indicators, evidence
verification and reporting approaches and tools. Government Knowledge:
Knowledge of the tiers and sectors of government and inter-governmental
relationships, and the economic and social development priorities and
programmes of national, provincial and local governments. Grant
Management: Knowledge of grant funding (non-repayable funds) approaches
and methods and the regulatory environment governing the management of
public funds. This includes knowledge of the South African grant funding
reforms initiative and grant management systems. Information Management:
The ability to gather, prepare, house and share the organisationally-relevant
information produced or found through work in a manner that creates easy
access and understanding, and that informs and educates the reader regarding
the subject. Legislative knowledge: Knowledge of the regulatory environment
and processes regarding the implementation of policies, legislation and service
delivery programmes, and knowledge of the PFMA and NT regulations
pertaining to the Jobs Fund. Project Management: Knowledge of project
management principles, methods, or tools for appraising, conceptualising,
structuring, scheduling, coordinating, and managing projects and resources,
including monitoring, evaluating and reporting on project impact, costs, work,
and contractor performance.
DUTIES : To conduct ongoing and thorough verification and filing of information obtained
from a variety of data sources submitted by project partners. In addition, it is to
ensure that all participants in the various supported programmes are authentic
and have received the services as reported by project partners. Data
Verification & Quality Assurance: Conduct thorough data verification of all data
to ensure all data captured on the databases is accurate and valid. This
includes comprehensive checking of reported data against source documents.
Assess the accuracy and completeness of the source documents and highlight
discrepancies. Conduct telephonic authentication of programme participants
and document the support received by the programme. Log all calls made on
the official call log. Verify all reported data against participant training registers
and timesheets. Record the errors that are identified as per the error log
process. Coordination & Reporting: Produce verification and error reports for
the Team Leader. Follow up on any outstanding evidence that was flagged for
correction or update. Keep track of the evidence and documentation being
submitted and returned. Communicate all data discrepancies to the Team
Leader on time. Participate in meetings and follow-ups with both internal and
external stakeholders where applicable. Administration: Maintain file-naming
protocols and maintain accurate records in the document storage facility.
Provide general administrative support to the team and the Team Leader as
required. Collate, distribute and file learning reports from client feedback, case
studies, reviews and project evaluations. Where required, assist the Team
Leader and team in research projects on job creation, employment and
systemic change, and collect, collate, distribute and file reports.
ENQUIRIES : Kaizer Malakoane at 066 250 7072
APPLICATIONS : Email: Kaizer.malakoane@gtac.gov.za
54
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(Motheo TVET College)
(Ingwe TVET College)
(Western TVET College)
ERRATUM: LEPHALALE TVET COLLEGE: Kindly take note that the email
address provided in the Public Service Vacancy Circular 42 dated 14
November 2025 was incorrect. The correct email address for submitting
applications is recruitment@leptvetcol.edu.za. Please also note that the
closing date for the previously advertised posts has been extended from 28
November 2025 to 12 December 2025 at 11:00. We sincerely apologize for any
inconvenience this may have caused.
OTHER POSTS
POST 43/62 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT AND
IMPLEMENTATION OCCUPATIONAL PROGRAMMES) REF NO: MOT/ASD-
OP/NADA/2025
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : NADA
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/Grade 12/Standard 10 or NC(V) Level 4 together
with a three (3) years recognised National Diploma/Degree (NQF L7) and a
recognized professional teacher’s qualification. SACE Certificate. 5 years’
experience in Curriculum Development plus a minimum of 3 years’ supervisory
experience and a valid Driver’s License. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge
of Public Service Act. Knowledge of the TVET Act; Computer literacy.
Leadership and management skills, project management skills, and
communication, inclusive of presentation skills. Ability to work independently
as well as in a team. Planning, organizing, leading and control skills. Research,
report writing and presentation.
DUTIES : To facilitate: Occupational qualifications implementation. Occupational
qualifications policy development and implementation. OHS compliance. PoE’s
format and Content. Types of machinery and equipment used. Tools handling
in the workshop and storage. Floor demarcations and Workshop Cubicles.
Teaching and Learning Policy, Assessment, Certification and Appeals Policy.
Learner support services, before, during and after the training intervention.
Teaching & Learning Portfolios content aligned to QCTO. Identify new market
trends to determine needs and opportunities. Formulate strategies to expand
delivery of occupational programmes. Develop and review procedures and
templates for the implementation of occupational learning programmes.
Manage and facilitate registration of learning programmes. Registration of
project facilitators, assessors, RPL practitioners and moderators with the
respective authorities. Partnerships with industries. The quality assurance
functions are performed following the set regulations. Facilitate the certification
process for competent learners in accordance with relevant legislation and
QCTO requirements. Provide curriculum improvement and implementation
support for occupational programmes. Ensure accreditation of programmes
offered and workshops through the relevant accreditation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Olin Tel No: Tel No: (051) 014 766
APPLICATIONS : Please forward applications to: Email: recruitment@motheotvet.edu.za or hand
deliver at the following address: The Principal Motheo TVET College, C/o Aliwal
& St Georges Streets, Private Bag X20509, Bloemfontein, 9300.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Nameka
NOTE : Instructions To Applicants: The application must only include a completed and
signed new Z83 form, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on
the College website at www.motheotvet.edu.za. and a detailed Curriculum
Vitae. Certified copies of certificates, identity documents and all other relevant
documents like a drivers’ license will only be requested from shortlisted
candidates on or before the interview date. A complete set of applications must
be submitted separately for every post that you wish to apply for with a clear
post description and Reference number. Persons with disabilities are
encouraged to apply. The College has the right to withdraw and/or amend
adverts for post(s) and retains the right not to fill the post(s) as determined by
the delegated authority. It is the responsibility of applicants to ensure that their
55
applications reach the College on or before the closing date. Applications
received after the closing date will under no circumstance be considered.
Applications are invited from suitably qualified people for the following
Department of Higher Education & Training (Motheo TVET College),
permanent positions. Applicants are respectfully informed that if no notification
of appointment is received within 4 months of the closing date they must accept
that their applications were unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 11 December 2025, (No late applications will be accepted)
POST 43/63 : COUNCIL SECRETARY: ADMIN CENTRE REF NO: 2025/11/14
4 Years fixed term contract
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Ingwe TVET College, Admin Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Matric or Equivalent. Recognized National Diploma (NQF6) in Office
Management and Technology/Public Management, Law, Social Science or
related qualifications. Experience in development of policies/implementations
strategies. Practical experience in Office Management and Technology/Public
management. A post graduate qualification in the relevant field/s will be an
advantage. 3-5 years relevant experience in administration environment.
Knowledge of Public Service legislation and policies. Knowledge of PSET.
Knowledge and understanding of the TVET/CET administration.
Understanding of Higher Education sector will be an added advantage.
Understanding Cost centre budgetary, expenditure and cash flow
management, Employment Equity Act, Public Service Regulations and Public
Service Act, Labour Relations Act and any other related legislation. Must have
a valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Render administration/executive support services in the office of the Principal.
Provides secretariat support to College Council, Council Committees,
Academic Board, Senior Management and other external stakeholders.
Provides strategic management, monitoring and evaluation services. Oversee
and maintain logistics within the office of the Principal. Arrange all meetings
(Sub-committee, Council, EXCO and other external stakeholders). Arrange all
Academic Board and Academic Board committees. Arrange and support for
training interventions. Coordinate the décor, layout, food service, invitation and
media protocol requirements for college hosted functions. Maintain stock of
standard forms and stationery. Develop agendas and write minutes for the
college meeting and forum Records Management. Management of all human,
financial and other resources of the unit. Ensure completion of performance
agreements by all employees in the unit. Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NA Damoyi Tel No: (039) 940 2142
APPLICATIONS : Ingwe TVET College, HRM&D Unit, PO Box 92491, Mount Frere, 5090 or email
to councilsecretaryapplications@ingwecollege.edu.za, or applications can be
delivered at Ingwe TVET College.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new approved Z83 obtained from
schools, colleges, and government departments and must be completed in full
and page 2 duly signed. Clear indication of the post and reference number that
is being applied for must be indicated on your Z83. A recent, comprehensive
Curriculum Vitae. Applications are not required to submit copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit the
fully completed Z83 and detailed curriculum Vitae. The communication from
the HR of the department regarding the requirements for certified documents
will be limited to shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates
for a post will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day
of the interview following communication from HR. Should you be in
possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation
certificate from the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when
shortlisted. Late (received after closing date and time), incomplete. The
employer is an equal opportunity affirmative, action employer. The employment
decision shall be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department.
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
in the Department through the filling of this post(s) with a candidate whose
appointment will promote representatively in line with the numerical targets as
contained in our Employment Equity Plan. The Employer reserves the right not
to make an appointment. Where applicable, candidates will be subjected to a
skills test. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates. All short-
listed candidates will be subjected to a qualifications and citizen verification;
56
criminal record and financial/asset record checks. Applicants who have not
been invited for an interview within 90 days of the closing date should consider
their application unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 12 December 2025 at 16:00
POST 43/64 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
MOT/ASD-SCM/CO/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric or NCV Level 4 with a recognized 3-years undergraduate Diploma (NQF
Level 6) in Supply Chain Management or Logistics Management qualification
as recognised by SAQA. 5 years’ experience in the Supply Chain Management
(Tender and Logistics Management) plus a minimum of 3 years’ supervisory
experience. Knowledge of the PFMA, PPPFA, Treasury Regulations, Supply
Chain Framework Act and BBEE Act, Understanding of the Supply Chain
Management cycle which includes demand, acquisition, logistics, disposal and
supplier relationship Management and Understanding of Asset Management
guidelines. Skills and Competencies: Administrative; Planning and organizing,
Financial Management, Report writing, Communication and interpersonal,
Problem solving and Computer literacy, Analytical and Client oriented, Project
management, Team leadership and People management.
DUTIES : Develop, review, implement and monitor SCM policies in line with relevant
legislation. Oversee the procurement of goods and services for the College.
Oversee the administration of demand and acquisition. Ensure an up-to-date
database of service providers. Analysis and planning of procurement
requirements, the collating of information for the annual procurement plan.
SCM record keeping and reporting. Oversee the management of assets of the
College. Management of all Human, Financial and other resources of the unit.
Ensure all official orders are compiled and authorized within three days from
the date of receipts of the quotations or comparative schedules. Facilitate the
administration of tender briefing sessions. Manage preparation of a tender
document upon receipt from tender bid specification committee. Monitor the
development and utilization for a supplier database. Establish the bid
specification, bid evaluation, bid adjudication committee and oversee the
proper functioning of the committee. Coordinate the internal, external and
unauthorized movements of asset.
ENQUIRIES : Prof. MDM Phutsisi Tel No: (051) 014 7850
APPLICATIONS : Please forward applications to: Email: recruitment@motheotvet.edu.za or hand
deliver at the following address: The Principal Motheo TVET College, C/o Aliwal
& St Georges Streets Private Bag X20509, Bloemfontein, 9300.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Nameka
NOTE : Instructions To Applicants: The application must only include a completed and
signed new Z83 form, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on
the College website at www.motheotvet.edu.za. and a detailed Curriculum
Vitae. Certified copies of certificates, identity documents and all other relevant
documents like a drivers’ license will only be requested from shortlisted
candidates on or before the interview date. A complete set of applications must
be submitted separately for every post that you wish to apply for with a clear
post description and Reference number. Persons with disabilities are
encouraged to apply. The College has the right to withdraw and/or amend
adverts for post(s) and retains the right not to fill the post(s) as determined by
the delegated authority. It is the responsibility of applicants to ensure that their
applications reach the College on or before the closing date. Applications
received after the closing date will under no circumstance be considered.
Applications are invited from suitably qualified people for the following
Department of Higher Education & Training (Motheo TVET College),
permanent positions. Applicants are respectfully informed that if no notification
of appointment is received within 4 months of the closing date they must accept
that their applications were unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 11 December 2025, (No late applications will be accepted)
POST 43/65 : ADMIN CLERKS: ADMINISTRATION SERVICES REF
NO:CV/ADMIN/CLERK/01, REF NO: RFT/ADMIN/CLERK/02, REF NO:
KDW/ADMIN/CLERK/03 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), plus benefits
57
CENTRE : Western TVET College
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade12/ Level 4 Certificate plus a recognised 3-year National
Diploma/Degree in Public administration/ Management Assistant/office
Management and Technology or any other relevant qualification. Minimum of 2
years experience in administration. Relevant work experience in
typing/secretary. Must be computer literate (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
Outlook and Internet). A valid driver’s license will be an added advantage. Must
be computer literate. Competencies, Knowledge, and Skills: Must have
knowledge and understanding of the registration processes and procedure.
Ability to communicate well with people at different levels and backgrounds.
Must have knowledge of switchboard operation. Must have good telephone
etiquette. Ability to capture data. Should have sound organisational skills,
planning, organising, communication, customer services and report writing
skills. High level of integrity and loyalty.
DUTIES : Administer and assist with student registration processes in line with the
college’s Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Capture and verify student
information on the BMS system, print and distribute control lists and class
registers. Verify data before submission to the Department of Higher Education
and Training (DHET). Screen and process online applications. Attend to
student and public enquiries. Operate the campus switchboard and direct calls
appropriately. Capture student marks and absenteeism accurately. Maintain
updated student academic records and ensure all information is securely
stored and accessible when required. Capturing and administration of
requisition forms, receive goods and services, verify deliveries against relevant
documents, and follow up on outstanding orders. Ensure proper
documentation and filing for all procurement-related transactions at campus
level. Provide administrative support services (application of college bursaries)
to the campus management team.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Motai Tel No: (011) 692 4004, Ext. 1010/1061/1062
APPLICATIONS : Please hand deliver your application or email it to
adminclerks2025@westcol.co.za in a pdf format and as one attachment,
quoting the relevant reference number to the Principal, Western TVET College,
Corporate Office, 42 Johnstone Street, Randfontein, 1760.
NOTE : All applications must be accompanied by a signed and fully completed NEW
Z83 form obtainable from any public service Department or DPSA website, a
comprehensive CV including at least three contactable references. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of original
documents with academic records/transcripts and other relevant supporting
documents on or before the day of the interview following communication from
HR Office. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by a SAQA evaluation
report. Successful candidates will be subjected to a vetting and financial
disclosure process (criminal record, citizenship, qualification verification and
employment verification). Western TVET College is an equal opportunities
employer and reserves the right not to fill the posts. People living with disability
are encouraged to apply. If you have not been contacted within six months after
closing date, please consider your application as unsuccessful. Please take
note that shortlisted candidates may be subjected to competency assessment.
NB Please ensure that the Z83 form is completed in full. Incomplete Z83 will
be disqualified.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025 at 12:00
POST 43/66 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: FINANCE REF NO: CARL/FINANCE/04
Duration: 1 Year (Fixed -Term Contract)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Western TVET College – Carletonville Campus
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/grade 12 certificate including recognised 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Finance / Financial Accounting / Cost and Management Accounting
/ Internal Auditing. A minimum of 1 to 2 years relevant experience in a finance
environment. Must be computer literate. Competencies, Knowledge, and Skills:
Must have basic knowledge of financial functions, practices as well as the
ability to capture data, operate computer and collate financial statistics. Basic
knowledge of (PFMA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial Manual). Knowledge of
basic financial operation, ability to perform adequately and methodically under
pressure. Knowledge of COLTECH, SAGE evolution and other relevant
business information management systems. Should have good administrative,
58
basic numeracy, accuracy, people management, communication, problem
solving, planning, and organising skills.
DUTIES : Render financial accounting transactions. Receive invoices, check
correctness, verification, and approval. Process invoices (capture payments).
Perform salary administration support services. Perform bookkeeping support
services. Capture all financial transactions and clear suspense accounts.
Provide support in the administration of debtors and creditors. Process
electronic banking transactions and compile journals. Render budget support
services. Assist in administration and controlling of petrol cards and college car
bookings. Assist with the coordination of bursary allocations. Performing bank
reconciliations. Administer the ordering of stationery and textbooks to students.
Record issued stock. Administer asset management services. Assist with
managing of all asset movement within the College. Capturing and recording
of all physical movable and immovable) assets in the physical asset
management registers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Motai Tel No: (011) 692 4004, Ext. 1010/1061/1062
APPLICATIONS : Please hand deliver your application or email it to
adminfinance2025@westcol.co.za in a pdf format and as one attachment,
quoting the relevant reference number to the Principal, Western TVET College,
Corporate Office, 42 Johnstone Street, Randfontein, 1760.
NOTE : All applications must be accompanied by a signed and fully completed NEW
Z83 form obtainable from any public service Department or DPSA website, a
comprehensive CV including at least three contactable references. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of original
documents with academic records/transcripts and other relevant supporting
documents on or before the day of the interview following communication from
HR Office. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by a SAQA evaluation
report. Successful candidates will be subjected to a vetting and financial
disclosure process (criminal record, citizenship, qualification verification and
employment verification). Western TVET College is an equal opportunities
employer and reserves the right not to fill the posts. People living with disability
are encouraged to apply. If you have not been contacted within six months after
closing date, please consider your application as unsuccessful. Please take
note that shortlisted candidates may be subjected to competency assessment.
Please ensure that the Z83 form is completed in full. Incomplete Z83 will be
disqualified.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025 at 12:00
POST 43/67 : STUDENT SUPPORT LIAISON OFFICERS (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), plus benefits
CENTRE : Randfontein Campus Ref No: RFT/SSLO/04
Westonaria Site Ref No: WESTONARIA/SSLO/05
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade 12 Certificate plus a recognised Degree in psychology/Social
Science/ Social Work or any other relevant qualification. Must have a minimum
of 2 to 3 years work experience in Student Support Services and administration
in a teaching and learning environment. Supervisory experience will be an
added advantage. Must have a valid driver’s license. Must be computer literate.
Competencies, Knowledge, and Skills: Must have knowledge and
understanding of Student Support Services Framework. Knowledge of career
guidance and extra-curricular activities. Must have knowledge of Ethical
regulatory and legislative framework, Public Service Regulations, Public
Service Act, National Student Financial Aid Scheme, and other related
legislation. Should have good communication, administrative, report writing,
problem solving, people management, presentation, project management,
team leadership, planning and organising skills.
DUTIES : Provide student support services at the college. Manage the pre-induction and
induction of students at the Campus. Prepare weekly and monthly reports.
Provide psychosocial support to students. Assist with academic support plan
for students. Address socio-economic students matters appropriately including
substance and alcohol abuse and other related matters. Conduct home visits
when necessary and interview/counsel students and other relevant
stakeholders to identify contributing factors associated with low attendance
concerns. Support students by establishing and delivering absence reduction
programmes. Provide student counselling or referral services. Implement
student work placement and Work Integrated Learning (WIL) policies and
entrepreneurship programmes. Provide career guidance, counselling, and
59
academic support for students. Desk. Implement the sport, recreation, arts, and
culture programs for student in the Campus. Implement the disability desk.
forge partnerships with different stakeholders. Facilitate student governance
and student leadership development and exit support programmes. Implement
the tracking program for the students.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Motai Tel No: (011) 692 4004, Ext. 1010/1061/1062
APPLICATIONS : Please hand deliver your application or email it to sslo2025@westcol.co.za in
a pdf format and as one attachment, quoting the relevant reference number to
the Principal, Western TVET College, Corporate Office, 42 Johnstone Street,
Randfontein, 1760.
NOTE : All applications must be accompanied by a signed and fully completed NEW
Z83 form obtainable from any public service Department or DPSA website, a
comprehensive CV including at least three contactable references. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of original
documents with academic records/transcripts and other relevant supporting
documents on or before the day of the interview following communication from
HR Office. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by a SAQA evaluation
report. Successful candidates will be subjected to a vetting and financial
disclosure process (criminal record, citizenship, qualification verification and
employment verification). Western TVET College is an equal opportunities
employer and reserves the right not to fill the posts. People living with disability
are encouraged to apply. If you have not been contacted within six months after
closing date, please consider your application as unsuccessful. Please take
note that shortlisted candidates may be subjected to competency assessment.
Please ensure that the Z83 form is completed in full. Incomplete Z83 will be
disqualified.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025 at 12:00
60
ANNEXURE G
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development’s mandate is to ensure that there is
accessible justice system in our vibrant and evolving constitutional democracy. It is responsible,
amongst others, to enable Access to Justice for all, promote Constitutionalism, Rule of Law, Respect for
Human Rights; and to coordinate the State Litigation and Legal Advisory Services. The Department is
therefore presenting an opportunity to dynamic individuals with relevant competencies to join a dynamic
team in its quest to fulfill its mandate and deliver justice services to the people of South Africa.
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post.
CLOSING DATE : 08 December 2025
NOTE : The application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that do
not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for
submission. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications.
All shortlisted candidates for posts will be subjected to a technical and/or
competency assessment. A pre-entry certificate obtained from National School
of Government (NSG) is required before appointment for all SMS positions.
Candidate will complete a financial disclosure form and also be required to
undergo a security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must
provide the Police Clearance certificate from country of origin only when
shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of
vacant posts the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South
Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant
Human Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Reasonable accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities
including where driver’s license is a requirement. Correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not hear from us within 3
months of this advertisement, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Target.
OTHER POSTS
POST 43/68 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: AREA COURT MANAGER REF NO: 67/25/LMP
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum. The successful candidate will be required
to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Vhembe District
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate National Diploma/Degree qualification (NQF level 6) as
recognized by SAQA in Public Administration / Public Management / Legal or
equivalent qualification; At least 3 years’ relevant experience at managerial
(Assistant Director) level; Knowledge and experience in office and district
administration; Knowledge of Financial Management and Public Financial
Management Act (PFMA); Experience in managing Trust (Third Party Funds)
and Vote Accounts; Experience in the Court Environment will be an added
advantage; A valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: Strong
Leadership and management capabilities; Strategic capabilities; Financial
management skills; Project management; Good communication (verbal and
written); Computer literacy; Planning and organizing skills; Decision making
skills; Presentation skills; Developing others.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage case-flow management; Manage the
financial resources of the Cluster; Manage office facilities, risk and security;
Manage Supply Chain and Assets services; Provide effective people
management.
61
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M.D Chauke Tel No: (015) 287 2080 or Ms. M.F Mathosa Tel No: (015) 287
2035
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X9526, Polokwane, 0700 OR Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Provincial Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0699
OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 43/69 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: 68/25/LMP
SALARY : R397 116 – R467 790 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Lenyenye
REQUIREMENTS : A three (3) year National Diploma/ Bachelor’s Degree in Public Administration/
Public Management or equivalent, 3 years’ administration experience;
Knowledge of Human Resource Management, Supply Chain Management and
Risk Management; Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA);
Knowledge of Financial Management (Vote and Trust); Departmental Financial
Instructions (DFI); BAS and Justice Yellow Pages. Skills and Competencies:
People Management; Computer literacy (Microsoft Packages); Good
Communication skills (written and verbal); Organising and Problem-solving
skills; Sound Leadership and management skills; Good interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Co-ordinate and manage the financial and human
resource of the office; Co-ordinate and manage risk and security in the court;
Manage the strategic and business planning process; Manage the Criminal and
Civil Court Administration Section and other sections related to Family Court
and Supply Chain; Manage Thirty Party Funds and Vote Accounts for the office;
Coordinate, manage and administer support services to Case Flow
Management and other court users.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Phalane M.R Tel No: (015) 287 2036 or Ms. Mongalo M.P Tel No: (015)
287 2037
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X9526, Polokwane, 0700 OR Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Provincial Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0699
OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 43/70 : MAINTENANCE INVESTIGATOR (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Seshego Ref No: 71/25/LMP (X1 Post)
Brits Magistrate Court Ref No: 25/VA39/NW (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent qualification; Relevant Administrative
experience in Family Law Matters; Knowledge of the Maintenance Act (Act of
99 of 1989). Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Office); Good
communication skills (verbal and written); Planning and organizing; Good
interpersonal relations; Time management; Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Serve Maintenance Summons, Warrants and
Garnishee Orders for the District in terms of the Maintenance Act; Locate
whereabouts of Persons; Give Testimony in Court under oath; Render
administrative support to the Office.
ENQUIRIES : Limpopo: Ms MF Mathosa Tel No: (015) 287 2035 Or Mr MI Modiba Tel No:
(015) 287 2034
North West: Ms. PM Seletedi Tel No: (018) 397 7088/7106
APPLICATIONS : Limpopo: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X9526, Polokwane, 0700 OR Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Provincial Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0699
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
North West: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at
22 Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mafikeng
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting relevant reference number
numbers.
62
POST 43/71 : SENIOR COURT INTERPRETER REF NO: 72/25/LMP
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Nebo
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and National Diploma: Legal Interpreting at NQF 5 or any other
relevant tertiary qualification in the field of languages at NQF 5 and minimum
of three years’ practical experience in court interpreting or Grade 12 with ten
years’ practical experience in court interpreting; Proficiency in English and two
or more indigenous languages. A valid driver’s license will serve as an added
advantage. Language requirements: Sepedi, Tsonga, IsiNdebele, Tshivenda
and Zulu. Skills and Competencies: Planning and organizing; Time
management skills; Interpersonal skills; Problem solving and analytical
thinking; Listening skills; Good communication skills; Computer literacy;
Confidentiality; Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas; Render interpreting services; Translate legal
documents and exhibits; Develop terminology; Assist with reconstruction of
Court Records; Perform specific line and administrative support functions;
Assist with capturing on ICMS; Supervise Court Interpreters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mongalo M.P Tel No: (015) 287 2037 or Ms. Mathosa M.F Tel No: (015)
287 2035
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X9526, Polokwane, 0700 OR Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Provincial Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0699
OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 43/72 : LABOUR RELATIONS OFFICERS REF NO: 2025/36/MP (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. Successful candidate will be required to sign
a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Nelspruit
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF Level 6 qualification as recognised by SAQA in Labour
Relations/Labour Law/LLB; A minimum of 2 years’ functional experience in
Labour Relations environment; Knowledge and understanding of relevant
labour laws, policies and procedures; Knowledge of Basic Condition of
Employment Act; Labour Relations Act, Employment Equity Act; Knowledge of
understanding of the Public Service statutory frameworks; Financial
Management and regulatory framework/guidelines, Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations, Departmental Financial
Instructions, Public Finance Management Act, Government initiatives and
decisions etc. Skills And Competencies: Concern of others; Creative thinking;
Citizen Service Orientation; Decision making; Diversity citizenship;
Organisational communication (verbal and written) skills; Problem analysis,
Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Administer and implement Labour relations policy and strategy; Handle
misconduct and grievances; Handle and administer dispute resolutions;
Administer collective bargaining processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K N Zwane at 060 532 2006
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank centre ,4th
floor building, Nelspruit, 1200.
POST 43/73 : MAINTENANCE OFFICER (MR1-MR5) (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R252 855 – R1 111 323 per annum. (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office, Vredendal Ref No: 79/2025/WC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Seshego Ref No: 69/25/LMP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office Mahwelereng Ref No: 70/25/LMP (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree or a four (4) year recognized legal qualification; Knowledge of
the maintenance system; Maintenance Act and family law matters;
Understanding of all services and procedures in the area of Maintenance. Skills
and Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Office); Good Communication skills
(verbal and written); Numeracy skills; Interpersonal relations; Problem solving
63
skills; Report writing and time management skills; Accuracy and attention to
detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Perform the powers, duties or functions of a
Maintenance Officer in terms of the Maintenance Act; Obtain financial
information for Maintenance enquiries; Guide Maintenance investigators in the
performance of their functions; Implementation of Bench orders; Provide
reports and compile statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Western Cape: Mr A Knowles Tel No: (021) 462 5471
Limpopo: Ms MF Mathosa Tel No: (015) 287 2035 OR Mr P Mongwe Tel No:
(015) 287 2034
APPLICATIONS : Western Cape: Please direct your applications to: Provincial Head: Private
Bag X9171, Cape Town, 8000 OR physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th
Floor Norton Rose House, Cape Town or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P Paraffin
Limpopo: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X9526, Polokwane, 0700 OR Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Provincial Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0699 or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference number.
POST 43/74 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office; Tulbagh Ref No: 76/2025/WC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Sekhukhune (CASH HALL) Ref No: 75/25/LMP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Groblersdal (CASH HALL) Ref No: 76/25/LMP (X1 Post)
Master of The High Court Polokwane Ref No: 77/25/LMP (X1 Post)
Magistrate: Office: Malamulele, (CASH HALL) Ref No: 78/25/LMP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Moutse (CASH HALL); Ref No: 79/25/LMP (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent qualification. Skills and Competencies:
Computer skills; Planning and organizing; Interpersonal skills; Language skills;
Flexibility; Good verbal and written communication skills; Teamwork.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render clerical support services; Provide supply
chain clerical support services within the component; Provide personnel
administration support within the component; Provide financial administration
support services in the component; Provide various administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Western Cape: Ms P Paraffin Tel No: (021) 462 5471
Master of The High Court – Polokwane: Mr M.I Modiba Tel No: (015) 287 2034
Sekhukhune: Mr. Shebu R.C.P Tel No: (013) 260 1001/ 2/ 3 - 1643
Groblersdal: Ms Botlholo A Tel No: (013) 262 2033
Malamulele: Mr P Mutavhatsindi Tel No: (015) 851 0022
Moutse: Ms A T Bilankulu Tel No: (013) 980 0005
APPLICATIONS : Western Cape: Please direct your applications to: Provincial Head: Private
Bag X9171, Cape Town, 8000 OR physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th
Floor Norton Rose House, Cape Town Or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P Paraffin
Sekhukhune: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: Postal address: The Court Manager: Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X9207, Sekhukhune, 1124. OR Physical address:
Registry Office no 14, Magistrate Sekhukhune Or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Polokwane: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X9526, Polokwane, 0700 OR Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Provincial Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0699
OR Recruitment portal: https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Groblersdal: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: Postal address: The Court Manager: Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X671, Groblersdal, 0470. Delivery address:
Reception area Magistrate Office Groblersdal, 0470 OR Recruitment portal:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Malamulele: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal address: The Court Manager: Department of Justice & Constitutional
64
Development, Private Bag X1180, Malamulele, 0982 Delivery address:
Reception area Magistrate Office Malamulele, 0982 OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Moutse: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal address: The Court Manager: Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X4565, Dennilton, 1030, Or Physical Address:
Reception area: Moutse Magistrate Court, No 01 Court Street, Dennilton 1030
OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 43/75 : SECRETARY TO THE REGIONAL COURT PRESIDENT REF NO: 74/25/LMP
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office NW-Mafikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (with typing as subject or Secretarial Certificate or any other
training/qualification that will enable the person to perform the work
satisfactorily). Skills and Competencies: Planning and organizing; Computer
literacy (Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Internet); Good
communication (verbal and written) skills; Presentation skills; Problem solving;
Good Interpersonal relations; Proper usage of Presentation Equipment’s;
Ability to correctly interpret relevant documentation; Numeracy; Intermediate
typing skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provides a Secretarial/receptionist support service to
the manager; Provides clerical support service to the manager; Provides
support to manager regarding meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M.C Rapetsoa Tel No: (015) 294 6000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Court Manager, Magistrate Polokwane Private Bag X9320,
Polokwane, 0700. or Physical address: Reception area Magistrate Polokwane,
Reception area or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 43/76 : COURT INTERPRETERS (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Ga – Kgapane Ref No: 73/25/LMP (X1 Post)
Magistrate’s Office: Ganyesa Ref No: 25/36/NW (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 4/ Grade 12; Proficiency in English and one or more indigenous
languages; Three months Practical experience will be an added advantage;
Driver’s license will be an added advantage; Language requirements: Ga-
Kgapane: English, Sepedi, Tsonga and Tshivenda, Applicants will be subjected
to language test; Language requirements: Magistrate’s Office: Ganyesa
Setswana, English and IsiXhosa/ IsiZulu, Skills and Competencies: Computer
literacy (MS Office); Good communications (written and verbal); Administration
and organizational skills; Good interpersonal relations; Accuracy and attention
to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Interpret in Criminal Court, Civil Court, Labour Court,
quasi – judicial proceedings; Interpret during consultations; Translate legal
documents and exhibits; Record cases in criminal record book; Draw case
records on request of the Magistrate and Prosecutors; Keep records of
statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Limpopo: Mr L Mapelane Tel No: (015) 287 2035 or Mr P.M Mongwe Tel No:
(015) 287 2034
North West: Ms. PM Seletedi Tel No: (018) 397 7088/7106
APPLICATIONS : Limpopo: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X9526, Polokwane 0700 or Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Provincial Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0699 or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
North West: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at
22 Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mafikeng or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference number.
65
POST 43/77 : TELECOM OPERATOR REF NO: 78/2025/SA/WC
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Office of the State Attorney, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Appropriate experience as a telecom
operator. Skills and Competencies: Communication (written and verbal);
Computer literacy (MS Office); Good interpersonal skills; Good public relations
skills; Ability to work under pressure and to solve problems; Customer service
and document management.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Handle incoming and outgoing calls, transfer calls,
take and convey messages; Ensure that the switchboard is manned at all
times; Attend to all other duties that may be required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Koopman Tel No: (021) 462 5471
APPLICATIONS : Please direct your applications to: Provincial Head: Private Bag X9171, Cape
Town, 8000 or physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th Floor Norton Rose
House, Cape Town Or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P Paraffin
66
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF MINERAL AND PETROLEUM RESOURCES
The Department of Mineral and Petroleum Resources (DMPR) is an equal opportunity; affirmative action
employer and it is its intention to promote representivity in the Public Sector through the filling of this
post. Persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity are encouraged to
apply, particularly persons with disabilities and women interested in senior management positions. An
indication of such, in this regard will be vital in the processing of applications.
APPLICATIONS : NB: Kindly note that the Department provides for four methods of submitting a
job application, namely: Post, courier, hand delivery and email. Applicants are
urged to choose/ utilise one of the methods provided above. You may forward
your application, quoting reference, addressed to: The Director-General,
Department of Mineral and Petroleum Resources, Private Bag X59, Pretoria,
0001. Alternatively, applications may also be hand delivered to Trevenna
Campus, corner Meintjies and Francis Baard Street, former Schoeman.
Another option is to submit application through email as a SINGLE scanned
document/ One PDF attachment to the email addresses specified for each
position. (Kindly note that the emailed applications and attachments should not
exceed 15mb). General enquiries may be brought to the attention of Ms T
Gumede Tel No: (012) 444- 3319.
CLOSING DATE : 12 December 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the recent Z83 application form which came
into effect from 01 January 2021 as issued by the Minister of Public Service
Administration in line with regulation 10 of the Public Service Regulations,
2016 as amended, which is obtainable online from www.gov.za and
www.dpsa.gov.za. All sections of the Z83 must be completed (In full,
accurately, legibly, honestly, initialled, signed and dated), and accompanied by
a comprehensive/ detailed Curriculum Vitae only. Applicants are not required
to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application
but must submit the Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents will be required from shortlisted
candidates only on or before the day of the interview. The Curriculum Vitae
must have at least three (3) reference persons and their contacts. Failure to
provide accurate information on a job application as well as incomplete
information will result in a disqualification. Job applicants in possession of a
foreign qualification(s), must also provide an evaluation certificate obtainable
from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). If an invitation for an
interview is not received within three (3) months after the closing date, please
regard your application as unsuccessful. Requirements stated on the
advertised posts are minimum inherent requirements; therefore, criteria for
shortlisting will depend on the proficiency of the applications received.
Shortlisted candidates will be assessed through practical exercise and an oral
interview. Applicants must note that personnel suitability checks (PSC) will be
conducted on the short-listed applicants, therefore will be required to give
consent in terms of the POPI Act in order for the Department to conduct this
exercise. PSC includes security screening and vetting, qualification
verification, criminal records, financial records checks. Applicants who do not
comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well as application
received after the closing date will not be considered. If an applicant wishes to
withdraw an application, He/ She must do so in writing. It is also important to
note that the Department reserves the right not to fill any advertised post at
any stage of the recruitment process.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 43/78 : DIRECTOR: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY REF NO: 052
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Information Technology/ Computer Science/ Business Information
(NQF 7) with a minimum of 5 years in senior/middle management experience
in Information Technology environment. Post graduate Degree in Business
management will be an added advantage. Knowledge of: Management and
expertise in all areas of information technology especially IT Infrastructure.
Technical expertise in advance strategic IT Infrastructure. Change
management with knowledge of Public Service and Departmental
67
organizational matters. Policy development. Strategic planning. Financial
management. Project management and government policies. Skills: Excellent
managerial communication and interpersonal relationship skills. Strong
leadership and organisational skills. Negotiation and consultation skills.
Problem solving and analysis. Strategic capability. Management and expertise
in all arear of information technology specific to infrastructure. Technical
expertise in advance strategic ICT Infrastructure. Regulatory framework for the
management of IT in government. Programme management with service
delivery orientation and effective budget management. Thinking Demand:
Logical. Creative/ innovative thinker. Accurate. Objective, Ability to analyse and
interpret information.
DUTIES : Oversee the management of information technology service delivery and
promote continuous improvement of productivity, quality service and customer
satisfaction. Manage and direct processes on utilisation of system security
mechanism and ensuring compliance to the IT regulatory framework. Ensure
the management or architecture and network configuration within the
Department. Manage the development, maintenance and implementation of
policies and strategies pertaining to information technology services and
systems. Manage the development of information technology infrastructure
architecture and conduct investigations into the maintenance of existing
technologies as well as the availability, needs and demand of new
technologies. Manage the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Leso at 071 475 8416
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment02@dmpr.gov.za
NOTE : No appointment shall be affected without the recommended candidate
producing a Certificate of completion for the SMS Pre-Entry Programme
(Nyukela) offered by the National School of government which can be
accessed via this link: https://www.thensg.gov.za.https://www.thensg.gov.za.
Candidates will undergo a compulsory competency assessment and technical
assessment. The Candidate will have to disclose her/ his financial Interests.
Candidates who are applying online are requested to upload one document as
attachment on a PDF format. Note: Indian /Coloured or white female are
encouraged to apply.
OTHER POSTS
POST 43/79 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DATA MANAGEMENT REF NO: 053
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Information Technology/ Business Information/ Computer
Science/ Data Science (NQF 6) plus minimum of 3 years’ junior management
experience in data governance, analyticsl and database management and
experience in junior staff management. Knowledge of: Data governance
frameworks and metadata standards. Statistical and analytical techniques.
Relevant legislation (e.g. POPIA, PAIA, Statistics Act, PFMA). Information
management systems and database technologies. System Analysis principles
and practice. Public Service and Departmental organizational matters. Skills:
strong analytical and problem-solving skills. Excellent communication and
report writing abilities. Leadership and project management. Advanced
proficiency in data analysis tools (SQL, Excel, Power BI, etc.). Strategic
capability. Change management. Creativity and innovation. Thinking Demand:
Management and expertise in all areas of Information Technology. Technical
expertise in advanced strategic and business analysis. Policy development.
Strategic planning. Financial management. Government policies. Management
and expertise in all areas of information technology. Technology expertise in
advanced strategic and business analysis.
DUTIES : Develop, maintain and implement policies and strategies pertaining to
departmental databases. Coordinate and administer the organisations’s data
management function. Ensure data collection, storage and quality assurance.
Engage stakeholder and provide capacity building to users. Manage the
Directorate
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Malefo Tel No: (012) 444 3086
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment03@dmpr.gov.za
NOTE : Candidate will undergo practical exercise and integrity assessments.
Candidates who are applying online are requested to upload one document as
68
attachment on a PDF format. note: Indian /Coloured or White female and
persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 43/80 : INSPECTOR: MINE HEALTH AND SAFETY REF NO: 054
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Gauteng Regional Office, Braamfontein
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Mining Engineering (NQF 6) plus Mine manager’s
certificate of competency with minimum of 3 years’ experience in Mining.
Knowledge of: Practical and theoretical knowledge of mining. Legal
knowledge. Departmental Directives. Public Service Act and Regulations.
Personnel Code. Directives. Skills: Team work. Loyalty toward work. Innovative
thinker. Dedication. Receptive to suggestions and ideas. Quality control.
Compliance with rules and regulations. Discipline, work ethics, financial
control. Self confidence and acceptability. Tactfulness. Organisational ability,
intolerance to waste-money, time. Thinking Demand: Good interpersonal
relations, communication verbal and oral, organisational ability control,
interpretation and application of legal matter and policies, teamwork, training,
negotiating, adaptability, control handling, computer literacy.
DUTIES : Conduct and report on underground, shaft and surface audits and inspection
on matters relating to ground stability, support, explosives, blasting operations,
and other matters relating to mine safety and take the necessary enforcement
action where necessary. Investigate and report on mine related accidents,
contraventions and complaints as well as the analyse mine accidents and
trends to determine high risk mining operations and take appropriate action.
Serve on any necessary boards of examiners. Investigate, consult and provide
input on mines closures, prospecting rights, mining rights and permits, EMP’s
and township development. Provide inputs to regional reports, revision of
mining regulations, guideline and standard; and applications of exemptions,
permission and approvals related to mining.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MN Madubane Tel No: (011) 358 9776
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment04@dmpr.gov.za
NOTE : Candidate will undergo practical exercise and integrity assessments.
Candidates who are applying online are requested to upload one document as
attachment on a PDF format.
POST 43/81 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL AND ADMINISTRATION SUPPORT
REF NO: 055
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Office Administration/ Office Management and Technology
/ Public Administration / Public Management / Business Administration /
Management Assistant / Administrative Management (NQF 6) Plus minimum
of 3 years’ experience in financial environment. Drivers’ licence will be an
added advantage Plus the following key competencies: Knowledge: of auditing
/accounting. Understanding of all applicable financial legislations, policies,
practices and procedures. Public Finance Management Act. Treasury
Regulation. DoRA. Basic Accounting System. LOGIS. PERSAL and Standard
Charts of Accounts: Skills: Computer Literacy. Financial. Good verbal and
written communication. Ability to communicate at all levels. Thinking Demand:
Problem solving. Creativity.
DUTIES : Conduct Quality Assurance on the consolidated submissions/ reports for final
sign- off by the Chief Financial Officer. Coordinate and monitor Audit findings
related matters in the Department. Provide Financial Governance and
Administrative Support. Support the implementation of fraud, abuse and
control integrity controls. Provide managerial activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Shirindi Tel No: (012) 444 3110
NOTE : Candidate will undergo practical exercise and integrity assessments.
Candidates who are applying online are requested to upload one document as
attachment on a PDF format. Note: Indian /Coloured male and persons with
disability are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment06@dmpr.gov.za
POST 43/82 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: 056
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 07)
69
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Office Administration/ Office Management and Technology
/ Public Administration / Public Management / Business Administration /
Management Assistant / Administrative Management (NQF 6) with minimum of
2 years clerical/ administration experience Knowledge: Public Finance
Management. Basic knowledge of administration and the processing of work
plans and LMC’s procedures. Make a sound and reasonable decision. Able to
use computer systems and recognize anomalies. Planning, Organizational
skills, implementing, controlling. Excellent verbal and writing. Knowledge of
Public Administration and Management. Skills: Computer literacy, Good verbal
and written communication. Ability to communicate at all levels. Thinking
Demand: Self -driven. Innovative and self-confidence. Ability to work under
pressure.
DUTIES : Provide Core Business administration support to the Directorate (Finance
specific admin support). Render logistical support to the Directorate.
Administer Supply Chain and related activities. Ensure document management
within the Directorate. Administer the Directorate’s budget. Coordinate and/or
administer Human Resource Management activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Tshivhase Tel No: (012) 444 3092
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment07@dmpr.gov.za
NOTE : Candidate will undergo practical exercise and integrity assessments.
Candidates who are applying online are requested to upload one document as
attachment on a PDF format. Note: Indian /Coloured or White male and
persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 43/83 : REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: 057
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : North-West Region: Klerksdorp
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate (NQF level 4) with no experience. Knowledge of registry
duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, and operate a computer.
Working knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing
the Public Service. Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of
the working environment. Understanding of the work in registry. Skills:
Computer Literacy. Planning and Organisation. Operating Office Equipment.
Good verbal and written communication skills. Thinking Demand: Problem
solving. Decision making. Planning. Innovative thinking.
DUTIES : Provide registry counter services. Handle incoming and outgoing
correspondence. Render an effective filing and record management services.
Operate office machines in relation to the registry function. Process documents
for archiving and/disposal.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Mokotong Tel No: (018) 487 4300
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment08@dmpr.gov.za
NOTE : Indian /Coloured or White female and persons with disability are encouraged
to apply Note: Candidate Will Undergo Practical Exercise and Integrity
Assessments. Candidates Who Are Applying Online Are Requested to Upload
One Document as Attachment on A PDF Format.
70
ANNEXURE I
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 08 December 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success and the National
Treasury ICT unit was unable to assist. The applicant’s profile on the e-
Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83, and it is the responsibility
of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or their applications
will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note. Certain documentation
will still be required to be uploaded on the system such as copies of all
qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric certificate, ID, etc.,
however these documents need not be certified at point of application, however
certification will be required prior to attending the interview. Please note: All
shortlisted candidates will be subjected to two assessments. The first
assessment will be a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job, while the second assessment will be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment, the logistics of which will be communicated by the
Department. It should be noted that the National Treasury does not support the
use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in any of its recruitment and selection
processes and will disqualify an application if it picks up the use of AI when
completing assessments without acknowledging the source of information.
Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government, available as
an online course on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/, prior to finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS
positions. For SMS positions certain candidates may be required to undergo
additional Psychometric Assessments. All qualifications, criminal and SA
citizenship checks will be conducted on all short-listed candidates and, where
applicable, additional checks will be conducted in line with the new DPSA
Directive effective 01 April 2024. By submitting your application, it also means
you consent to the National Treasury processing your information for Human
Resources Management purposes. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level certificates) evaluated
by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at your own expense.
Upon appointment, successful candidates will be required to sign a
Performance Agreement within 3 months from date of appointment and for
candidates whose appointment exceeds 12 calendar months will be appointed
on probation for the period of twelve (12) calendar months excluding leave
taken as prescribed by Public Service Regulation 68. The status of your
application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system. However, if you have
not received feedback from the National Treasury within 3 months of the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Note: The
National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned posts,
withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. All queries
must be submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment
Support Team on Recruitment.Enquiries@treasury.gov.za .The National
Treasury is compliant with the requirements of POPIA.
71
OTHER POSTS
POST 43/84 : ECONOMIST: BUSINESS TAX ANALYSIS REF NO: S111/2025
Division: Tax and Financial Sector Policy (TFSP)
Purpose: To advise on economic, distributional and sectoral impacts of current
and proposed business tax policy options – aiming for an efficient and
internationally competitive revenue raising policy.
SALARY : R582 444 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent to NQF level
6) or bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Economics or
Econometrics or Finance or Tax. A minimum 3 years’ experience obtained in
an analytical environment. Knowledge and experience of tax / fiscal policy /
public economics would be an advantage.
DUTIES : Corporate Taxation – rates, tax bases and tax competition: Assist in research
on corporate taxation pertaining to rates and tax base in aiming for an efficient
and internationally competitive corporate tax regime. Make use of
administrative taxpayer microdata to inform policy analysis and
recommendations and present thereon. Review of Tax Policy and Legislation:
Assist in the reviewing of tax legislation in conjunction with economic policy
and recommend changes. Assist in the review of tax reforms relating to other
countries for alignment of international trends, mindful of South Africa’s
priorities and needs. Assist with sector analysis on tax policy for tax incentives.
Monitor the tax policy impact on sectors and the economy (growth). Inputs to
International Taxation: Assist in the provision of income flow data and analysis
for double tax agreements. Conduct research and analysis on international tax
matters. Parliamentary, Ministerial and MTBPS and Budget: Assist in
preparation of written responses to stakeholders. Assist in the response to tax
policy issues emanating from enquiries and suggest appropriate courses of
action. Liaise with stakeholders and contribute to MTBPS and Budget
preparations. Collate inputs from internal stakeholders into responses and
contribute to formulation of responses to enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 43/85 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PERFORMANCE AUDIT REF NO: S114/2025 (X2
POSTS)
Division: Office of The General-General (ODG)
Purpose: To plan and execute performance audit and audit of performance
information engagements for NT, IRBA, ASB and GTAC to achieve audit
objectives.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum bachelor’s degree (equivalent
to NQF level 7) in Internal Auditing or Accounting, Certification as a Certified
Internal Auditor (CIA) will serve as an added advantage. A minimum 3 years’
experience obtained within the broader Internal Audit environment. Knowledge
and experience of the performance audits field.
DUTIES : Audit Process – Audit plan, assurance and advisory services: Assist with
planning and reporting, and lead the execution of planned, adhoc and follow
up performance audits and audit of performance information engagements.
Provide key input into the development and alignment of the 3-year rolling audit
plan and detailed annual Performance Audit plan based on the strategic and
operational risks. Provide inputs in ensuring that planning for the Performance
Audits is done a quarter in advance and resources are correctly allocated
based on skills required and availability. Draft audit notification and
engagement letters. Conduct preliminary surveys and necessary research on
all planned and ad-hoc performance audit engagements. Arrange and attend
opening and closing conference meetings with clients. Manage own task
allocation, oversee and monitor tasks assigned to Junior Performance Audit
Specialists and trainees. Lead the interview sessions in preparation of
performance audits, identification of symptoms, completion of audit working
papers, informal queries, progress reports, quality draft audit reports that
include value adding recommendations audit file on TeamMate. Assist with the
development of audit objectives and criteria and audit program. Lead the follow
up process and ensure that all the necessary tests and workshops are
72
conducted to verify implementation of action plans instituted by management
to rectify identified inadequate management measures. Complete the findings
register to be reported to Audit Committee. Resource Management: Supervise
and develop Junior Performance Audit specialists and trainees.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 43/86 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS REF NO: S115/2025
Division: Corporate Services (CS)
Purpose: To implement and follow-up on labour relations matters within the
National Treasury.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Human
Resources Management or Employment Relations or Labour Relations. A
minimum 3 years’ experience obtained in Employment Relations services.
Knowledge of the broader public service framework on Labour Relations.
DUTIES : Grievances and Complaints: Investigate grievances lodged in alignment with
policy and procedures, Apply prescripts in accordance with the lodging of
investigations and the resolving of grievances, Assist in the evaluation of
investigation reports received and formulate the outcome of an investigation,
Engage and refer grievances to the Public Service Commission for further
investigation, Provide feedback on outcomes emanating from the Public
Service Commission’s investigation, Prepare grievances to stakeholders for
their inputs. Misconducts: Draft appointment letter for the appointment of IO’s
and PO’s, Scrutinize reports and requests and issue a formal charge to an
employee accused of misconduct, Guide stakeholders on application of
discipline relating to misconduct, Assist with the involve of law enforcement
agencies in high profile cases when required, Process requests for the
suspension of employees based on merit of the situation, Assist with the
drafting of charges on misconduct and serve charge sheets on an employee,
Arrange disciplinary hearings and record proceedings in the meeting for record
purposes, Implement policies and maintain procedural and substantive
consistency in misconduct cases, Engage the outcome of disciplinary hearing
to the affected employee, Engage the outcome of disciplinary hearing to the
affected employee, Engage the outcome of disciplinary hearing to the affected
employee: General Public Sector Bargaining Council Engagements: Assist
with the serving of copies of referral forms of disputes are filed by the applicant,
Represent the Department in conciliation hearings at the PSCBC, GPSSBC
and CCMA, Prepare documents and brief legal representatives on cases and
assist them during the duration of cases, Assist with the implementation of
awards issued by the Commissioner. Collective Bargaining: Assist with the
facilitation and functioning of the internal collective bargaining structures,
Serve as the secretariat to the Task Team and prepare discussion documents
for meetings, Assist in the interpretation and application of agreements.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 43/87 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ECONOMIC RELATED
LEGISLATIVE SERVICES REF NO: S116/2025
Division: Office of The General-Counsel (OGC)
Purpose: To assist in the drafting and scrutiny of financial sector and economic
related legislation and supporting its legislative processes; to comment on draft
legislation impacting on fiscal and intergovernmental legislation and to advise
on the interpretation of fiscal and intergovernmental legislation.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum bachelor’s degree in law
(equivalent to NQF level 7) LLB (equivalent to NQF level 8) will be an added
advantage. A minimum of 3 years’ experience obtained in a legal environment.
Knowledge of constitutional and administrative law and statutory interpretation.
Knowledge of Legal research and Legislative drafting skills.
DUTIES : Drafting and Processing of financial sector and economic related primary
legislation: Provide guidance on legislative processes and participate in policy
processes that may require legislation. Draft Bills. Scrutinise draft Bills
prepared by line units or entities of National Treasury. Assist internal units with
73
legal aspects of socio-economic impact assessments of draft Bills. Prepare
documentation for the processing of draft Bills, namely to the Minister,
Directors-General Clusters, Cabinet and Parliament, and support the
processing of draft Bills. Prepare legal instruments required for the
commencement of Acts. Comment on Draft Primary Bills initiated by other
Departments/Ministers: Provide inputs on draft Legislation initiated by other
national departments submitted to the National Treasury before Directors-
General and Cabinet processes. Scrutinise legislation submitted to Cabinet
Committees or Cabinet to prepare the Minister of Finance’s input on the
legislation, by identifying provisions that may impact on the National Treasury
or legislation administered by the Minister of Finance, impact the financial
interests of the provincial and local spheres of government, and only be
introduced by the Minister of Finance or with the Minister’s concurrence.
Drafting/Editing and Scrutiny of financial sector and economic related
subordinate legislation: Draft regulations and other legal instruments to be
made by the Minister of Finance with supporting documentation required for
the promulgation of the legal instruments. Scrutinise draft regulations and other
legal instruments, prepared by line units or entities of National Treasury, to be
made by the Minister of Finance with supporting documentation required for
the promulgation of the legal instruments. Provide inputs on draft regulations
and other legal instruments initiated by other national departments submitted
to the National Treasury before promulgation. Review legislation: Audit
legislation for technical alignment and adherence to best practice and other
primary legislation of the National Treasury. Assess legislative requirements
against government policy objectives and initiate reviews of legislation.
Interpretation of legislation: Advise internal units on the interpretation of
legislation.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
74
ANNEXURE J
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office (Midrand) / Constitutional Court: Quoting the relevant
reference number, direct your application to: The Director: Human Resources,
Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand
deliver applications to the Office of the Chief Justice, Human Resource
Management, 188, 14th Road, Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685.
Western Cape: Cape Town: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct
your application to: The Provincial Head: OCJ Service Centre, Western Cape,
For Attention: Mr SD Hlongwan, Address: 30 Queen Victoria Street, Cape
Town, 8000 or Private Bag X14, Vlaeberg, 8018.
Eastern Cape Makhanda/Provincial Service Centre: Quoting the relevant
reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the
Chief Justice, Postal Address: Private Bag X13012, Cambridge, 5206, East
London. Applications can also be hand delivered to 59 Western Avenue,
Sanlam Park Building, 2nd Floor, Vincent 5242, East London.
Gauteng/Labour and Labour Appeals Court: Johannesburg/Pretoria:
Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X7, Johannesburg,
2000. Applications can also be hand delivered to the 12th floor, Cnr Pritchard
and Kruis Street, Johannesburg.
North West/ Mmabatho: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The OCJ Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private
Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735. Applications can also be hand delivered to 22
Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mafikeng.
Free State High Court: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag
X20612, Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand deliver applications to the Free State High
Court, Corner President Brand and Fontein Street, Bloemfontein, 9301.
Northern Cape: High Court: Kimberly: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief
Justice, Private Bag X5043, Kimberley, 8300 or hand deliver applications to the
Northern cape division of the High Court, Corner Sol Plaatjie Drive, Kimberly.
KwaZulu-Natal/ Durban: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag
X54314, Durban, 4001. Applications can also be hand delivered to 1st Floor
Office No 118, CNR Somtseu8 & Stalwart Simelane Streets, Durban, 4000.
Mpumalanga/ Middelburg: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct
your application to: The Provincial Head: Office of the Chief Justice, Private
Bag X20051, Mbombela, 1211. Applications can also be hand delivered to,
Mpumalanga Division of the High Court, Office of the Chief Justice Provincial
Service Centre, 311 Samora Machel Drive, Mbombela, 1200.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. All shortlisted candidates
shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment
method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical
and generic requirements. Each application form must be fully completed, duly
signed and initialed on both pages by the applicant. The application must
indicate the correct job title, the office where the position is advertised and the
75
reference number as stated in the advert. Failure by the applicant to fully
complete, sign and initial the application form will lead to disqualification of the
application during the selection process. Applications on the old Z83 will
unfortunately not be considered. Should you be in a possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation 7considered. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
financial checks, qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference checks
and employment verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months after
the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with
the above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late, will
not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in
the application not being considered during the selection process. All
successful candidates will be expected to enter into an employment contract
and a performance agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be
required to undergo a security clearance three (3) months after appointment.
The Office the Chief Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal
information provided to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more
specifically for the purpose of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the
event that your application was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice
will retain your personal information for internal audit purposes as required by
policies. All the information requested now or during the process is required for
recruitment purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your
application null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the
security and confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment
process
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the posts of Judges Secretary (X2) advertised in
Public Service Vacancy Circular 42 dated 14 November 2025 with Ref No
2025/320/OCJ have been withdrawn. Apologies for any inconvenience caused.
OTHER POSTS
POST 43/88 : PRINCIPAL COURT INTERPRETER REF NO: 2025/334/OCJ
SALARY : R397 116 – R467 790 per annum (Level 08). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Labour and Labour Appeals Court: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, A 3-years National Diploma in Legal Interpreting/ equivalent
qualification at (NQF level 6). A minimum of two (2) years’ experience in the
relevant field and supervisory experience, Proficiency in Afrikaans, Proficiency
in all indigenous languages will be an added advantage. A Valid driver’s
license. Candidates will have to undergo oral and written languages proficiency
testing. Skills and Competencies; Excellent Communication skills; Time
Management, Computer literacy, Analytic thinking Good interpersonal skills,
problem solving, Planning and organizing; Confidentiality, Ability to work under
pressure; Art of interpreting. Supervising the Language Section.
DUTIES : Render interpreting services in high profile matters. and quasi judiciary
proceedings: Interpret in complex cases, interpret in criminal, civil, and Labour
Court, interpret in small claims court, interpret in disciplinary hearing, Interpret
in Conciliation and Arbitration, interpret in confession, Interpret pre-trial
proceedings and consultations. Control, supervise and attend to personnel
administrative aspects of interpreters: Provide mentoring and coaching to
junior/ senior interpreters, manage performance agreement contracts, draw a
schedule for replacement of Court Interpreters, Control leave of Court
interpreters and submit Court hour registers. Translate Legal documents and
exhibits, assist with reconstruction of court proceeding records, procure foreign
language interpreters and casuals in line with PFMA and the relevant policy,
report statistical to be generated and escalated to the cluster manager of
consolidation. Develop terminology, coin words, perform specific line and
administrative support functions to the Judiciary Harvest if terminology,
Database development, provide terms and their respective meanings in the
glossary register, Supervise and develop staff. Provide effective people
management, provide practical training for staff and develop, implement and
76
monitor work systems and processes to ensure efficient and effective
functioning and address enquiries and provide advice and guidance on asset
allocation and control.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms T Nzimande Tel No: (011) 359 5718
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : applications can be sent via email to: 2025/334/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 43/89 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: 2025/335/OCJ
SALARY : R397 116 – R467 790 per annum (Level 08). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Division of The High Court: Makhanda
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, A Three-year National Diploma in Public Administration /
Administrative Management / Public Management/ Finance or equivalent
qualification at (NQF level 6); a minimum of 2 years administration experience;
Supply Chain Management and Risk Management; Knowledge of Public
Finance Management Act, Knowledge of Human Resource Management,
Knowledge of Financial Management; Departmental Financial Instructions,
BAS, LOGIS and Justice Yellow Pages. A valid driver’s license and supervisory
experience will serve as an advantage. Skills and Competencies: People
Management; Computer Literacy (Microsoft packages); Good communication
skills (written and verbal); Organizing and problem-solving skills; Sound
leadership and management skills; Good interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate and manage the financial and human resources of the court; Co-
ordinate and manage risk and security in the court; Manage the strategic and
business planning process; Managing Assets and the Administration Section,
travel and accommodation arrangements and other related sections to the
Court and Supply Chain; e.g. Managing vehicle invoices of both Judges and
G-fleet, managing the court building, Security Officers and Cleaning services.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms L Frazer Tel No: (046) 622 5657
HR Related Enquiries: Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : applications can be sent via email to: 2025/335/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 43/90 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT TO THE CHIEF OF STAFF IN THE PRIVATE
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE REF NO: 2025/337/OCJ
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Constitutional Court: Braamfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. An undergraduate qualification at NQF6 as recognised by SAQA in
Office Management/Information Management/Public Administration/Business
Administration/Records Management. A minimum of two (2) years’ experience
functional experience in Office Administration. A valid Driver’s license.
Knowledge of legislative framework governing the public service. Knowledge
of basic Departmental policies and procedures. Batho Pele Principles
Shortlisted candidates will be required to pass a typing test. skills and
competencies: Time management. Good communication skills (verbal and
written). Administration and organizational skills. Exceptional interpersonal
skills. Ability to meet strict deadlines and to work under pressure. Attention to
detail. Customer service skills. Confidentiality and time management. Ability to
Multi task. Computer literacy (MS Word).
DUTIES : To provide high-level administrative and secretarial support to the Chief of
Staff. Coordinate meetings and handling correspondence. Produce reports and
presentations. Maintaining office systems to ensure the smooth and efficient
operation of the Chief of Staff's office. Screen and respond to phone calls,
emails, and other inquiries. Draft correspondence on behalf of the Chief of
Staff. Electronic filing of correspondence of the Chief of Staff. Provide a
professional first point of contact. Proactively manage the Chief of Staff's
electronic diary, including scheduling meetings, coordinating agendas, taking
minutes, and arranging meeting logistics like catering and venues. Screen and
handling enquiries from internal and external stakeholders. Maintain and
manage an efficient electronic filing system. Prepare and edit documents,
briefing papers, reports, and presentations for the Chief of Staff. Ensure that
77
reports are of high professional quality. Arrange and coordinate travel
(including booking flights, accommodation) for the Chief of Staff. Manage any
related expenses and reconciliation e.g. cell phone and subsistence and travel
expenses.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Mr. J Jacobs Tel No: (011) 359 7400/7
HR enquiries: Ms. K Mokgatlhe Tel No: (011) 359 7400/ 7574
APPLICATIONS : applications can be sent via email to: 2025/337/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals
POST 43/91 : JUDGE’S SECRETARYREF NO: 2025/338/OCJ (X8 POSTS)
(12 Months Non-Renewable Contract)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits. The successful
candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, LLB, BA/ BCOM Law degree or a four (4) year legal qualification or
equivalent as recognized by SAQA, a minimum of two years secretarial
experience and valid driver's license. Skills and competencies: Excellent
communication skills (verbal & written); Computer literacy; Numerical skills;
Attention to detail; Planning, organizing and control; Problem solving and
decision-making skills; Customer service oriented; Interpersonal skills; Conflict
management and strong work ethics; Professionalism; Ability to work under
pressure and meeting deadlines; Results driven; Honesty and trustworthy.
Observance of confidentiality.
DUTIES : To ensure attendance and screening of all incoming and outgoing calls. To
ensure that appointments and meetings of the Judge are diarized. To ensure
that the judgments are typed, and correspondence is appropriately captured
and saved in the correct locations and safeguarded. To ensure that signed
Judgments and orders are properly handed down in person in court and/or
virtually. To ensure that draft judgements are expeditiously handled and typed.
To ensure all visitors in the Judge’s Chambers are received, screened and their
queries are attended to. To ensure that all incoming and outgoing documents
are recorded and filed. To ensure that stationery for the Judge is ordered and
collected. To ensure that the court files are ready, the Judge has access to all
his allocated files and documents in the file on time as per duty roster. To
ensure that all files received from various sections(s) are verified by the
Registrar of that section. To ensure that the Judges Chamber register of
reviews is up to date and signed on receipt and return of review files to the
review Clerk. To ensure that the register/template for the reserved judgements
is updated timeously and that the Statistics Officer as well as the office of the
Judge President is notified when judgement remains outstanding and/or has
been handed down. To ensure that transcribed judgements from transcribers
reach the Judges for approval and signature. To prepare court rolls for
Opposed Motion and Urgent Court and distribute to stakeholders. To ensure
that the Heads of Argument from various stakeholders are received, filed and
verified. Informing parties involved via e-mail and or the time telephonically of
time and date when reserve judgements will be handed down, further notifying
them on how the judgement will be handed down. To ensure that the bench
book of the Judge is prepared, and files are in court before the court starts or
before the Judge enters the court. To ensure that all stakeholders involved are
present in court before commencement of proceedings. To ensure that all
cases are called and recorded as per court roll. Calling the case number and
the parties’ names on record before Judge can allow parties to start with their
matters. To ensure that the correct Oath ID or declaration is administered in
court, when required. To ensure that the exhibits are handled, controlled and
noted professionally and captured accordingly. To ensure that the correct order
is endorsed on the file and or on Case lines after it was granted by Judge in
court. To ensure that all the travel and accommodation arrangements are in
order on time, attend to sign the documents being signed prior approval. To
ensure that the Judge’s logbook is submitted on or before 5th of every month
to the Transport Officer. To ensure that the car is booked for either maintenance
and service, receive the pre-authorization for the Judge’s vehicle. To ensure
the submissions of Cell phone and 3G data claims for process purposes. To
ensure that court roll(s) are submitted to the Statistical Officer on or before
every Friday. To ensure that all updates on the loose leafs in the Judge’s library
are attended to. Good communication skills (verbal and written) Administration
78
and organizational skills. Exceptional interpersonal skills. Ability to meet strict
deadlines and to work under pressure. Attention to detail. Customer service
skills and excellent typing skills including Dictaphone typing. Confidentiality and
time management. Computer literacy (MS Word) and research capabilities.
The Department reserves the right not to make any appointments.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms M Campbell Tel No: (012) 492 6799
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : applications can be sent via email to: 2025/338/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals
POST 43/92 : POOL JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2025/339/OCJ
(12 Months Non-Renewable Contract)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07), plus 37% in lieu of benefits. The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, LLB, BA/ BCOM Law degree/a four (4) year legal qualification or
equivalent as recognized by SAQA, a minimum of two years secretarial
experience and valid driver's license. Skills and competencies: Excellent
communication skills (verbal & written); Computer literacy; Numerical skills;
Attention to detail; Planning, organizing and control; Problem solving and
decision-making skills; Customer service oriented; Interpersonal skills; Conflict
management and strong work ethics; Professionalism; Ability to work under
pressure and meeting deadlines; Results driven; Honesty and trustworthy.
Observance of confidentiality.
DUTIES : To ensure attendance and screening of all incoming and outgoing calls. To
ensure that appointments and meetings of the Judge are diarized. To ensure
that the judgments are typed, and correspondence is appropriately captured
and saved in the correct locations and safeguarded. To ensure that signed
Judgments and orders are properly handed down in person in court and/or
virtually. To ensure that draft judgements are expeditiously handled and typed.
To ensure all visitors in the Judge’s Chambers are received, screened and their
queries are attended to. To ensure that all incoming and outgoing documents
are recorded and filed. To ensure that stationery for the Judge is ordered and
collected. To ensure that the court files are ready, the Judge has access to all
his allocated files and documents in the file on time as per duty roster. To
ensure that all files received from various sections(s) are verified by the
Registrar of that section. To ensure that the Judges Chamber register of
reviews is up to date and signed on receipt and return of review files to the
review Clerk. To ensure that the register/template for the reserved judgements
is updated timeously and that the Statistics Officer as well as the office of the
Judge President is notified when judgement remains outstanding and/or has
been handed down. To ensure that transcribed judgements from transcribers
reach the Judges for approval and signature. To prepare court rolls for
Opposed Motion and Urgent Court and distribute to stakeholders. To ensure
that the Heads of Argument from various stakeholders are received, filed and
verified. Informing parties involved via e-mail and or the time telephonically of
time and date when reserve judgements will be handed down, further notifying
them on how the judgement will be handed down. To ensure that the bench
book of the Judge is prepared, and files are in court before the court starts or
before the Judge enters the court. To ensure that all stakeholders involved are
present in court before commencement of proceedings. To ensure that all
cases are called and recorded as per court roll. Calling the case number and
the parties’ names on record before Judge can allow parties to start with their
matters. To ensure that the correct Oath ID or declaration is administered in
court, when required. To ensure that the exhibits are handled, controlled and
noted professionally and captured accordingly. To ensure that the correct order
is endorsed on the file and or on Case lines after it was granted by Judge in
court. To ensure that all the travel and accommodation arrangements are in
order on time, attend to sign the documents being signed prior approval. To
ensure that the Judge’s logbook is submitted on or before 5th of every month
to the Transport Officer. To ensure that the car is booked for either maintenance
and service, receive the pre-authorization for the Judge’s vehicle. To ensure
the submissions of Cell phone and 3G data claims for process purposes. To
ensure that court roll(s) are submitted to the Statistical Officer on or before
every Friday. To ensure that all updates on the loose leafs in the Judge’s library
79
are attended to. Good communication skills (verbal and written) Administration
and organizational skills. Exceptional interpersonal skills. Ability to meet strict
deadlines and to work under pressure. Attention to detail. Customer service
skills and excellent typing skills including Dictaphone typing. Confidentiality and
time management. Computer literacy (MS Word) and research capabilities.
The Department reserves the right not to make any appointments.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms M Campbell Tel No: (012) 492 6799
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : applications can be sent via email to: 2025/339/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals
POST 43/93 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2025/340/OCJ
(48 Months Non-Renewable Contract)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07), plus 37% in lieu of benefits. The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Labour And Labour Appeals Court: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, LLB, BA/ BCOM Law degree or a four (4) year legal qualification or
equivalent as recognized by SAQA, a minimum of two years secretarial
experience and valid driver's license. Skills and competencies: Excellent
communication skills (verbal & written); Computer literacy; Numerical skills;
Attention to detail; Planning, organizing and control; Problem solving and
decision-making skills; Customer service oriented; Interpersonal skills; Conflict
management and strong work ethics; Professionalism; Ability to work under
pressure and meeting deadlines; Results driven; Honesty and trustworthy.
Observance of confidentiality.
DUTIES : Provide general secretarial/administrative duties to the Judge. Typing (or
format) of draft memorandum decision, opinions or judgement entries written
by or assigned by Judge. Provide general secretarial/administrative duties to
the Judge. Manage and type correspondence, judgements and orders for the
Judge (including Dictaphone typing). Arrange and diarize appointments,
meetings and official visits and make travel and accommodation arrangements.
Safeguarding of all case files and the endorsement of case files with an order
made by Judge. Update files and documents and provide copies of documents
to the Registrar. Perform digital recording of court proceedings on urgent court
cases after hours or on circuit court and ensure integrity of such recordings.
Store, keep and file court records safely. Accompany the Judge to the court.
Compile court statistics daily. Management of Judge’s vehicle, logbook and
driving thereof. Compile data and prepare reports and documents for assigned
Judges as necessary, including expense reports, continuing legal hours,
financial disclosure statements and case management. Arrange refreshments
for the Judge and his or her visitors and attend to their needs. Management of
Judge’s library and updating documentation. Execute legal research as
directed by the Judge and comply with departmental prescripts, policies,
procedures and guidelines.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms T Nzimande Tel No: (010) 494 8538
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : applications can be sent via email to: 2025/340/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 43/94 : ACCOUNTING CLERK REF NO: 2025/342/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Provincial Service Centre: Port Elizabeth
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent qualification. No experience required. Skills
and Competencies: Computer literacy, Knowledge of Public Finance
management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, Generally Recognised
Accounting Practice (GRAP), Departmental Policies and procedures. Good
communication skills (written and verbal), Good interpersonal relations,
planning and organization skills. Good problem-solving skills. Accuracy and
attention to details. Ability to work under pressure. Good time keeping.
Telephone etiquette. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry
practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
80
DUTIES : Capture financial transactions on BAS, Maintain electronic invoice tracking
register, Facilitate supplier registration on BAS, Compile journals, Capture HR
related transactions, Capture S&T claim and other allowance, File all Finance
and HR related documents, Review all finance and HR related documents for
completeness, correctness, exitance and compliance, Ensure that all
documents are filled in a lockable and safe place, Distribute payroll, Facilitate
logistical arrangements, Communicate with vendors, customers and
colleagues.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related: Mr Z Mahanjana Tel No: (043) 726 5217
HR Related Enquiries Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : applications can be sent via email to: 2025/342/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals
POST 43/95 : REGISTRAR’S CLERK REF NO: 2025/344/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Western Cape Division of The High Court: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification, the following will be an added advantage:
An LLB/ B Com Law/ BA: Law/ Paralegal qualification; and/or Experience in
general legal administration; and/or a minimum of one (1) year administration
experience preferably in a court environment; and/or a valid driver’s license.
Skills and Competencies: Good communication (written and verbal), computer
literacy (MS Office), good interpersonal skills, good public relations skills, ability
to work under pressure, customer service and knowledge of document
management and filing.
DUTIES : Assist with the management and control of Court Records, Filling and issuing
of civil processes and criminal matter, Processing of reviews and appeals,
Compilation of statistics, Attend and oversee to general public enquiries/
correspondence; Court online related duties, perform any other duties required
for the effective and efficient functioning of the court as required by the
Judiciary, Court Manager and Chief Registrar.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Enquiries: Technical Enquiries: N Chwetisho Tel No: (021) 480 2637
HR Related Enquiries: Technical - SD Hlongwane Tel No: (021) 469 4032
APPLICATIONS : applications can be via email to: 2025/344/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals
POST 43/96 : REGISTRAR’S CLERK REF NO: 2025/345/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Labour & Labour Appeals Court: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification, the following will be an added advantage:
An LLB/ B Com Law/ BA: Law/ Paralegal qualification; and/or Experience in
general legal administration; and/or a minimum of one (1) year administration
experience preferably in a court environment; and/or a valid driver’s license.
Skills and Competencies: Good communication (written and verbal), computer
literacy (MS Office), good interpersonal skills, good public relations skills, ability
to work under pressure, customer service and knowledge of document
management and filing.
DUTIES : Assist with the management and control of Court Records, Filling and issuing
of civil processes and criminal matter, Processing of reviews and appeals,
Compilation of statistics, Attend and oversee to general public enquiries/
correspondence; Court online related duties, perform any other duties required
for the effective and efficient functioning of the court as required by the
Judiciary, Court Manager and Chief Registrar.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Enquiries: N Chwetisho Tel No: (021)480 2637
HR Related Enquiries: SD Hlongwane Tel No: (021)-469 4032
APPLICATIONS : applications can be sent via email to: 2025/345/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
81
POST 43/97 : DATA CAPTURER REF NO: 2025/2599/OCJ
12 Months Non-Renewable Contract
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04). plus 37% in lieu of benefits. The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate. No experience required. Working experience in the HR
environment will be an added advantage. Knowledge of clerical duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data. Skills and Competencies: Batho
Pele principles, Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working
environment. Effective communications skills (written and verbal), Good
interpersonal skills, Computer Literacy Skills, Customer Services, Planning
and organizing skills, Problem solving skills, Analytical skills, Numeric skills. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Render data capturing service, contribute to organizational efficiency, provide
general administration functions, Verification and quality control of data, attend
to data rented queries.
ENQUIRIES : Technical related enquiries: Mr A Khadambi Tel No: (010) 493 2527
HR related enquiries: Ms S Tshidino Tel No: (010) 493 8771
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/2599/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the Employment
Equity goals.
POST 43/98 : TYPIST REF NO: 2025/346/OCJ
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Mpumalanga Division of The High Court: Middleburg High Court
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. No experience required. Minimum typing speed of 35wpm. A valid
Driver’s license will serve as an advantage. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge
of the legal terminology, court procedures, rules and environment, counter
services, filing system, understanding of legislative governing the Public
Service (Batho Pele & PSR), knowledge of Batho Pele Principles, computer
literacy (Microsoft Office). typing skills (speed 35 words per minute) good
communication skills (written and verbal). good interpersonal relations,
planning and organization skills. good problem-solving skills. accuracy and
attention to details. ability to work under pressure. good time keeping.
Telephone etiquette.
DUTIES : Type court orders, court documents and reports. Type appeals, reviews,
memorandums, reports, minutes, circulars, notice of set downs, witness
statements and taxing master reports. Type Rule 6(12) orders and make
available in terms of the rule. Type judgments. Sort and distribute incoming and
outgoing files. Make amendments on judgments as per judges’
request/instruction. Compile term roll, week roll and un/opposed motion roll and
maintain registers. Draft term rolls for each court term in line with the Gazetted
terms. Type supplementary rolls. Compile and submit relevant orders and
judgments to relevant stakeholders. Provide Advocates enrolment orders to the
Department of Justice and Constitutional Development. Send all judgments
provided to the typing unit, in the required format, to the elected person (for
reporting purposes on Saflii)
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries Ms DY Seswene Tel No: (013) 492 2213
HR enquiries: Mr SJ Zwane / Mr MV Maeko Tel No: (013) 758 0000
APPLICATIONS : applications can be sent via email to: 2025/346/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals
POST 43/99 : HANDYMAN REF NO: 2025/347/OCJ
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810 per annum (Level 03). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Labour & Labour Appeals Court: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (Abet level 3) or equivalent qualification. A valid driver’s licence. 3
Years’ experience in handyman or general worker environment in areas
including but not limited to plumbing, electrical, repair and maintenance work.
Grade 12 and/or a trade test certificate in plumbing, electrical, bricklaying,
82
carpentry or mechanical will be an added advantage. Skills & Competencies:
Knowledge of the Occupational Health and Safety Act. Knowledge on how to
operate hand and power tools. Knowledge of building infrastructure layouts.
Basic Computer literate. Communication skills. To work as part of a team.
Reliability. Hard working. Problem solving skills. Innovation. Ability to work
independently. Must be semi-skilled in trades of plumbing, electrical,
bricklaying and carpentry or mechanical. Must be willing to do all other general
worker duties when required to do so and be keen to learn. Must be physical
healthy. Experienced driving capabilities.
DUTIES : Perform minor general building maintenance and repairs. Attend to minor
plumbing, electrical, bricklaying, mechanical, carpentry and general handyman
duties. Conduct routine inspections of the building on a daily, weekly and
monthly basis to identify faults, breakages and general maintenance needs.
Report unauthorised movement of equipment. Attending to general work as
required, including driving Judges’ vehicles for repairs, servicing, car washes,
drop off and pickups from and to the airport and purchasing of goods for the
office.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Enquiries: Mr RAF Wesso at (087) 106 1775
HR Related Enquiries: Mr SD Hlongwane Tel No: (021) 469 4032
APPLICATIONS : applications can be sent via email to: 2025/347/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 43/100 : SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: 2025/348/OCJ
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810 per annum (Level 03). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Northern Cape Division of The High Court: Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : ABET. Level 2/ Grade 10, A relevant experience required. A valid driver’s
license. Basic Security Officer’s course registered with PSIRA: Knowledge and
Skills: Knowledge of Access to Public Premises and Vehicle Act and other
security related legislations. Knowledge of the access control procedures.
Knowledge of measure for the control and movement of equipment and stores.
Knowledge of prescribed security procedures (e.g. MIS, NISA, Protection of
Information Act etc.) and the authority of security officers under these
documents. Knowledge on the relevant emergency procedures. Batho Pele
Principles. Interpersonal Skills, Client service skills, listening skills, Problem
solving skills, Good Communication skills, Computer skills, Time management
skills, Analytical skills.
DUTIES : Perform access control functions. Determine whether visitors have
appointments/or the service that visitor requires. Contact the relevant
employees to confirm the appointment or refer the visitor to the relevant service
delivery point. Utilise walk-through metal detector for the effectiveness of
access control. Report all the identified security breaches and non-compliance
to the Supervisor. Ensure that unauthorised persons and dangerous object do
not enter the building/premises. Ensure that the admission control register is
completed and issue admission control documents/ cards as required. Ensure
that equipment, document and store do not leave or enter the building or
premises unauthorised. Inspect vehicles entering and leaving the premises.
Gather information and report on missing and stolen equipment and stores.
Handle documents at points of entry according to classification and the
prescripts. Ensure that the registers control the movement of equipment, stores
and documents are completed. Ensure that no equipment, stores as assets of
the department leave the building /premises unauthorised. Operate control
room security equipment’s. Report all incidents monitored, report to the
supervisor. Report all identified non-compliance to security policy and
procedures to improve office security. Ensure that security system is in good
working condition. Monitor all access points for effective access control.
Monitor all movements, events, and activities within the department's premises
using CCTV equipment’s. Ensure safety in the building and premises.
Undertake building/ and the primes patrols to identify and check. Apply
emergency procedures (in situations like bomb scares, riots etc.) and alert
emergency services and department management. Monitor and respond to
alarm system. Ensure all incidents are recorded in the occurrence
books/registers. Update the information on the occurrence book/register as
and when required. Liaise with supervisor to verify information recorded.
Ensure that recorded information is correct.
83
ENQUIRIES : Technical Enquiries: Mr F Wilkinson Tel No: (053) 492 3553
HR Related Enquiries: Ms RP Netshivhale Tel No: (053) 492 3535
APPLICATIONS : applications can be sent via email to: 2025/348/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
84
ANNEXURE K
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be posted / or hand-delivered to: The Department of
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation (DPME), Attention: Human Resource
Admin & Recruitment, at Private Bag X944, Pretoria, 0028 or hand delivered
to 330 Grosvenor Street, Hatfield, Pretoria 0028 (please quote the relevant
post and reference number).
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025 @ 16:30
WEBSITE : www.dpme.gov.za
NOTE : The relevant reference number must be quoted on all applications. The
successful candidate will have to sign an annual performance agreement and
will be required to undergo a security clearance. Applications must be
submitted on a signed Z83 accompanied by a comprehensive CV only
specifying all experience indicating the respective dates (MM/YY) as well as
indicating three reference persons with the following information: name and
contact number(s), email address and an indication of the capacity in which the
reference is known to the candidate. Certified copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents will be requested from shortlisted candidates only.
Applicants will be required to meet vetting requirements as prescribed by
Minimum Information Security Standards. The DPME is an equal opportunity
affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be informed by the
Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the Department’s intention to
promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
Failure to submit the above information will result in the application not being
considered. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Reference
checks will be done during the selection process. Note that correspondence
will only be conducted with the short-listed candidates. If you have not been
contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Shortlisted candidates
must be available for interviews at a date and time determined by DPME.
Applicants must note that pre-employment checks will be conducted once they
are short-listed and the appointment is also subject to positive outcomes on
these checks, which include security clearance, security vetting, qualification
verification and criminal records. All shortlisted candidates will be required to
undergo a technical exercise that intends to test the relevant technical
elements of the job. For salary levels 11 to 15, the inclusive remuneration
package consists of a basic salary, the state’s contribution to the Government
Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules.
SMS will be required to undergo a Competency Assessment as prescribed by
DPSA. The DPME reserves the right to utilise practical exercises/tests for non-
SMS positions during the recruitment process (candidates who are shortlisted
will be informed accordingly) to determine the suitability of candidates for the
post(s). The DPME also reserves the right to cancel the filling / not to fill a
vacancy that was advertised during any stage of the recruitment process. Prior
to appointment, a candidate would be required to complete the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to Senior Management Services as
endorsed by DPSA which is an online course, endorsed by the National School
of Government (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into the SMS and the full details can be sourced by the
following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/. Candidates are required to use the new Z83 (Application for
employment) that is implemented with effect from 1 January 2021. A copy can
be downloaded on the website of the Department of Public Service &
Administration (DPSA) at www.dpsa.gov.za.
85
OTHER POSTS
POST 43/101 : SPECIALIST: PLANNING ALIGNMENT REF NO: 17/2025 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Planning Alignment
SALARY : R1 059 105 – R1 247 574 per annum (Level 12), all-inclusive salary package.
The remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution
to the Government Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may
be structured according to personal needs within the relevant framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s degree/ Advanced Diploma (NQF Level 7) in Social
Science/ Economics/ Public Administration/ Public Management with at least 5
years’ experience in Strategic Planning/ M&E of which 3 years should be at
Junior Managerial level (ASD). A relevant NQF level 8 qualification or higher
will be an added advantage. Competencies and Skills: Should have good
interpersonal relations and communication skills. Planning, execution,
leadership and management skills. Should be able to control financial
resources and supervise staff. Knowledge requirements: Should have
knowledge of Strategic Planning processes; Monitoring & Evaluation
Framework; Basic Research Methodologies and Government Budgeting
Frameworks. Personal attributes: Should be able to produce good quality of
work; be reliable and take initiatives. Should be flexible and have the ability to
work with the team. The ability to delegate and empower subordinates. Should
be assertive and self-driven, innovative and creative, client oriented and
customer focused, solution oriented and be able to work under stressful
situations. Should be able to maintain high levels of confidentiality.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing support with the
oversight and direction of Strategic Planning, Annual Performance Planning,
reporting and planning for implementation programmes in government. This
entails assessing draft provincial Strategic Plans and Annual Performance
Plans of departments, liaise and report accordingly. Developing, reviewing and
implementing Government Planning and Reporting Frameworks and
Guidelines. Coordinating and providing support to provincial quarterly
performance reporting processes. Coordinating stakeholder engagements on
strategic and annual performance planning processes and reporting thereof.
Providing support in management of the directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Lehong Tel No: (012) 312-0540
APPLICATIONS : can also be emailed to Recruitment17@dpme.gov.za
POST 43/102 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK (DEMAND AND ACQUISITION) REF NO: 8/2025
(X2 POSTS)
Unit: Demand and Acquisition Management
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05), plus benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate or equivalent with no work experience. A National
Diploma (NQF 6) or higher in Supply Chain Management with experience in
Demand and Acquisition will be an added advantage. Competencies and skills:
Must have analytical skills, communication skills, interpersonal skills and
computer literacy skills. Knowledge requirements: Basic knowledge of Supply
Chain duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer
and collecting statistics. Basic knowledge and understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service. Basic knowledge of work procedures
in terms of the working environment. Personal Attributes: The ability to accept
responsibility for own areas of work. Ability to work independently.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible to efficiently and effectively
implementing demand and acquisition administration in line with relevant
legislations. This entails to provide requisition administration. Sourcing of
quotations from the relevant database. Conduct proper record keeping,
reporting and updating of Demand and Acquisition registers. Communicate
with stakeholders and conduct follow ups on procurement.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Masilela Tel No: (012) 312-0471
APPLICATIONS : can also be emailed to Recruitment18@dpme.gov.za
86
INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME/IN-SERVICE TRAINING FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2026-2028
The Department of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation is offering opportunities to unemployed South
African graduates and students from Higher Education institutions who have completed their degrees or
diplomas or would like on-the-job, practical training to complete their qualifications. Applicants should
indicate the field of study that they have completed and the correct reference number and note that the
duration of the internship and in-service training for students from Universities, the Universities of
Technology and the TVET Colleges will be 24 months.
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be posted / or hand-delivered to: The Department of
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation (DPME), Attention: Human Resource
Admin & Recruitment, at Private Bag X944, Pretoria, 0028 or hand delivered
to 330 Grosvenor Street, Hatfield, Pretoria, 0028 (please quote the relevant
post and reference number).
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025 @ 16:30
WEBSITE : www.dpme.gov.za
NOTE : The relevant reference number must be quoted on all applications. The
successful candidate will have to sign an annual performance agreement and
will be required to undergo a security clearance. Applications must be
submitted on a signed Z83 accompanied by a comprehensive CV only as well
as indicating three reference persons with the following information: name and
contact number(s), email address and an indication of the capacity in which the
reference is known to the candidate. Certified copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents will be requested from shortlisted candidates only.
Applicants will be required to meet vetting requirements as prescribed by
Minimum Information Security Standards. The DPME is an equal opportunity
affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be informed by the
Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the Department’s intention to
promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
Failure to submit the above information will result in the application not being
considered. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Reference
checks will be done during the selection process. Note that correspondence
will only be conducted with the short-listed candidates. If you have not been
contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Shortlisted candidates
must be available for interviews at a date and time determined by DPME.
Applicants must note that pre-employment checks will be conducted once they
are short-listed and the appointment is also subject to positive outcomes on
these checks, which include security clearance, security vetting, qualification
verification and criminal records. All shortlisted candidates will be required to
undergo a technical exercise that intends to test the relevant technical
elements of the job. The DPME reserves the right to utilise practical
exercises/tests for non-SMS positions during the recruitment process
(candidates who are shortlisted will be informed accordingly) to determine the
suitability of candidates for the post(s). The DPME also reserves the right to
cancel the filling / not to fill a vacancy that was advertised during any stage of
the recruitment process. Candidates are required to use the new Z83
(Application for employment) that is implemented with effect from 1 January
2021. A copy can be downloaded on the website of the Department of Public
Service & Administration (DPSA) at www.dpsa.gov.za. Applicants must be
South African citizens, should not have a criminal record and should not have
served/placed in the Public Service before in the developmental programmes
(In-service Training, Learnership, etc). National Certificate learners should, on
appointment, submit logbooks from their colleges.
OTHER POSTS
POST 43/103 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME CORPORATE SERVICES BRANCH REF NO:
DPME/2025/01 (X1 POST)
Directorate: Legal Services
Duration 24 months
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree/ BA Laws as recognised by SAQA.
87
ENQUIRIES : Tel No: Ms Sharon Maloma Tel No: (012) 312 0457 and Mr Mongezi Davashe
Tel No: (012) 312 0464
APPLICATIONS : can also be emailed to Recruitmentintern01@dpme.gov.za
POST 43/104 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME NATIONAL PLANNING COORDINATION
SECRETARIAT BRANCH REF NO: DPME/2025/02 (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Social
Duration 24 months
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree in Social Science/ Education/ Health Sciences as recognised by
SAQA
ENQUIRIES : Tel No: Ms Sharon Maloma Tel No: (012) 312 0457 and Mr Mongezi Davashe
Tel No: (012) 312 0464
APPLICATIONS : can also be emailed to Recruitmentintern02@dpme.gov.za
POST 43/105 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME STATE OWNED ENTERPRISE BRANCH REF
NO: DPME/2025/04 (X1 POST)
DDG: State Owned Enterprises Reform
Duration 24 months
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree in Economics/ Finance/ Accounting as recognised by SAQA.
ENQUIRIES : Tel No: Ms Sharon Maloma Tel No: (012) 312 0457 and Mr Mongezi Davashe
Tel No: (012) 312 0464
APPLICATIONS : can also be emailed to Recruitmentintern04@dpme.gov.za
POST 43/106 : IN-SERVICE TRAINING/ INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME SECTOR &
MONITORING SERVICES BRANCH REF NO: DPME/2025/03 (X1 POST)
DDG: Sector Monitoring
Duration 24 months
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month/ R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : N6 Certificate in Office Management (In-service Training)/ Degree in Business
Administration (Internship Programme) as recognised by SAQA
ENQUIRIES : Tel No: Ms Sharon Maloma Tel No: (012) 312 0457 and Mr Mongezi Davashe
Tel No: (012) 312 0464
APPLICATIONS : can also be emailed to Recruitmentintern03@dpme.gov.za
88
ANNEXURE L
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The Department of Public Works and Infrastructure is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
The intention is to promote representatively in the Public Service through the filling of these posts and
with persons whose appointment will promote representatively, will receive preference. An indication by
candidates in this regard will facilitate the processing of applications. If no suitable candidates from the
unrepresented groups can be recruited, candidates from the represented groups will be considered.
People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
CLOSING DATE : 12 December 2025 time at 16H00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed Z83 application form
(obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA website link:
https:/www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/, which must be signed, initialled and
dated by the applicant, and must be accompanied by a detailed curriculum
vitae (CV) only. Candidates are not required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and related documents on application. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualification and other
related documents on or before the date of interview, which should not be older
than six months. Should an application be submitted using incorrect/old Z83
application form, such an application will be disqualified. Further take note of
the following on completion of Z83 application form: PART A and PART B must
be fully completed. PART C - PART G: Noting that there is a limited space
provided applicants may refer to CV or indicate. This will be acceptable as long
as the CV has been attached and provides the required information. Page 1 of
the Z83 application form must be initialled and page 2 signed and dated by the
applicant. Failure to comply with the above instructions may result in an
application being disqualified. Applicants applying for more than one advertised
post must submit separate Z83 application forms and CVs in respect to each
post being applied for. Should an application be received where an applicant
has applied for more than one posts on the same Z83 application form, the
applicant will be considered for the first post indicated on the Z83 application
form only. Applications will be received via post/courier services, hand
deliveries or email. Late applications will not be considered. Regulation 57 (c)
and 67 (9) of the Public Service Regulations 2016, as amended, requires the
executive authority to ensure that he or she is fully satisfied of the claims being
made and the finalisation of Personnel Suitability Checks in order to verify
claims and check the candidate for purpose of being fit and proper for
employment, respectively. Shortlisted candidates must be willing to undergo
normal vetting and verification processes. Note: It is the responsibility of all
applicants to ensure that foreign qualifications are evaluated by SAQA. Due to
large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of applications will not be
acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates
only. Should you not have heard from us within three months from the closing
date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Entry level requirements
for SMS posts: in terms of the Directive on Human Resource Management
Development on Public Service Professionalisation Volume 1 a requirement for
appointment into SMS posts is the successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-Entry programme as endorsed by the National School of
Governance (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link: https:www.thensg.gov.za/training –course /sms-pre-entry
programme/.Note: For emailed applications, please submit a Single PDF
document Or one attachment per application to the email address designated
on the specific position. Kindly note that the emailed applications and
Attachments Should Not Exceed 15MB. It remains the candidate’s
responsibility to ensure that their application is successfully submitted using
the required single pdf document.
89
OTHER POSTS
POST 43/107 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CONSTRUCTION SECTOR ANALYST REF NO:
2025/144
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the middle management service)
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Real
Estate/Property Management or Commercial/Policy development, built
environment or in the relevant field. Working experience in formulating policies
and strategies in the construction industry and experience in implementing
policies, strategies as well as projects in the public sector at a Junior
Management/Assistant Director level equivalence. Postgraduate qualification
will be an advantage. Strong research and report writing skills. Good
understanding of how the regulatory environment operates in the built
environment broadly and the construction sector specifically. Proof of policy
development capacity, requisite skills and experience in policy formulation in
the construction industry. Skills: Research, Policy formulation and analysis.
Strategic planning. Programme and project management. Problem
identification and solving. Analytical thinking. Report writing. Presentation
skills. Knowledge of Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook. Budgeting and
Financial Management. Stakeholder liaison and management. Interpersonal
skills. Knowledge: Broad understanding of the construction industry in South
Africa. Sustainable infrastructure development. Knowledge and
implementation experience in policy and strategy development, project
planning and execution; capacity building; skills and enterprise development.
Understanding of government priorities. Broad knowledge of government
strategies, policy and legislation. Knowledge of policies and legislation
underpinning the mandate of the Department of Public Works and
Infrastructure. Departmental Policies and Procedures. Planning and
organizing.
DUTIES : Manage the development and review of policy frameworks, strategies, and
legislation in the Sub-Directorate: Construction Sector Regulation. Undertake
research on the latest developments in professional guidelines, legislation and
standards. Undertake research on relevant construction industry related topics
approved by the Department. Lead the development and execution of
comprehensive construction industry analysis strategies. Ensure that all
construction industry analysis policies, guidelines and standards are
developed in line with applicable prescripts and are aligned to the Department’s
strategic objectives. Monitor policy implementation and ensure compliance
with applicable policies and Directives. Manage the analysis of the construction
sector policies. Manage the consultation process with relevant stakeholders,
analyse and collate relevant information in the construction industry. Manage
the integration process with other departments and DPWI entities. Ensure
implementation of construction policies, facilitate policy integration with the
Construction Industry Development Board (CIDB), the Independent
Development Trust (IDT), and other entities. Ensure the management,
regulation and transformation of the professions within the construction
industry working in collaboration with the Construction Sector Charter Council,
monitoring the compliance with approved policies and construction regulations.
Manage the Sub-Directorate, develop and manage the operational plan of the
Sub-Directorate and report on progress as required, provide all required
administrative reports, manage the budget allocated to the Sub-Directorate.
Provide support for the overall success of the Sub-Directorate and Policy Unit
of the Department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Peters, Cell: (082) 749 8866
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria) Applications: The Director-General, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at CGO
Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria or email to
Recruitment25-73@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
90
POST 43/108 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN CAPITAL INVESTMENT (PROFESSIONAL
SERVICES BRANCH) REF NO: 2025/145
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the middle management service)
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three year-tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Public
Management / Human Resources Management / Social Sciences / Education
/ Training and Development. Appropriate experience in Human Resources,
talent development and management at a Junior Management/Assistant
Director level equivalence. Must have a valid unendorsed driver's license and
be willing to travel extensively. Must have experience in drafting of policies,
strategies, standards and norms; and project managing of Sectoral Education
Training Authority / National Skills Fund Projects / Programme Administration
Knowledge: Skills Development Act, National Skills Development Plan,
National HRD Strategy of South Africa, Occupation Specific Dispensation, Built
and Infrastructure Sector related legislation. Registration as a Skills
Development Facilitator, and or Assessor will be an added advantage Skills:
Good verbal and Written Communication skills, Organizing, Planning and Time
Management Skills Knowledge of Filing System Management and Financial
Management Policy analysis and development, Planning and organizing,
People management, Project coordination, Problem Solving, Facilitation and
presentation, Stakeholder and client liaison, Monitoring and Report writing.
Advanced computer literacy, MS Word and Excel Excellent interpersonal skills.
Ability to work under pressure and deadline driven. Willingness to adapt work
schedule in accordance with professional requirements.
DUTIES : Develop, review and monitor implementation of HCI or Capacity Building
programme guidelines, processes, norms & standards and strategies through
conducting research on talent acquisition programmes; Drafting, reviewing and
ensuring approval of HCI or Capacity Building programme guidelines, norms &
standards and strategies, Developing and implementing HCI or Capacity
Building programmes support tools; Providing advice and guidance in various
fora in relation to the HCI or Capacity Building programmes; Developing,
implementing and maintaining related policies, procedures and guidelines.
Coordinate the implementation of HCI or Capacity Building Programmes by
maintaining strategic and operational agreements between Human Resources,
Client Units, and Regions Ensuring alignment of programmes to Workplace
Skills Plan, Succession planning, and Human Capital needs of the Department,
Coordinating stakeholder meetings, Compile monthly, quarterly and progress
reports on HCI or Capacity Building programmes Manage the Database
pertaining to Human Capital Investment programmes beneficiaries- Manage
and administer programmes beneficiaries contracts, Facilitate induction and
Orientation of Interns, Develop and Manage employment contracts for capacity
building beneficiaries and Mentors Coordinate training and development
interventions of trainees and Mentors Facilitate exits of Young Professionals
and Artisans Trainees, Provide updated beneficiaries information and statistical
reports to internal and external stakeholders Conduct monitoring and
evaluation of all HCI or Capacity Building programmes Source and provide
funding for the implementation of HCI or Capacity Building programmes;
Coordinate for preparations and submission of Professional Council
requirements for beneficiaries’ professional registration and manage the talent
pipeline through partnerships with Voluntary Associations, BEPCs, other
Departments, and Higher Education Institutions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. D Baikgaki Tel No: (012) 406 1343 / 082 957 4517
APPLICATIONS : Office (Pretoria) Applications: The Director-General, Department of Public
Works, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at CGO Building,
Corner Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria or email to Recruitment25-
74@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 43/109 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SECURITY COMPLIANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT
REF NO: 2025/146
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (all-inclusive remuneration package, to be structured
according to MMS guidelines)
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
91
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in security management/
Social science. A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06)
in Security Management/Social Science Relevant experience at a Junior
Management/Assistant Director level equivalence in information security,
vetting and Screening. SSA Security Managers Course, valid driver’s licence.
Knowledge: Relevant security legislation and the Minimum Information
Security Standards (MISS), Classification of sensitive information, Conduction
of Threats and Risk assessment (TRA), conduction of security plan during
departmental events, good communication and supervisory skills. Effective
report writing. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : To develop, implement and monitor the information security, conduct threats
and risk assessment (TRA), develop TRA reports ,develop and implement
security risk management programmes, identification of sensitive information,
classification of sensitive information, develop and implement information
security procedure, conduct information security awareness, develop,
implement and manage the security risk register, develop and implement close
protection strategy of Top Management, develop and implement security plan
during Ministerial and departmental events, liaise with relevant law-
enforcement departments.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Marageni Tel No: (012) 406 1632
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria) Applications: The Director-General, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at CGO
Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria or email to
Recruitment25-75@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 43/110 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (MR6): LEGISLATIVE
DRAFTING AND CONTRACT REF NO: 2025/147 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R586 956 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD determination).
The successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree or equivalent qualification. At least 8 years appropriate post
qualification legislative and contract drafting/legal/litigation experience; A valid
driver’s license. (Admission as attorney or Advocate of the high court and
supervisory/management experience will be an added advantage).
Knowledge: Legislative Processes and Parliamentary Rules; the South African
Legal System; Legal Practices and related spheres with specific reference in
civil litigation, the law of contract; property and construction law; procurement
law, criminal procedure, practices and court rules; Knowledge of Interpretation
of Legislation; Knowledge of the legislative and constitutional mandate of the
Department of Public Works & Infrastructure. Knowledge and interpretation of
the following legislations: the Constitution, Government Immovable Asset
Management Act, State Land Disposal Act, Interpretation Act, Institution of
Legal Proceedings Against Certain Organs of State Act; Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, Departmental Financial
Instructions and the State Liability Act; Law of contracts; Employment Equity
Act and related policies; Public Service Act; of Promotion of Access to
Information Act; Magistrates Court Act; Supreme Court Act; Promotion of
Administrative Justice Act; and other applicable legislations, and international
law. Skills And Competencies: Legislative writing and drafting skills; skills; legal
research and application of the law; legal drafting; ability to provide
professional in-house legal assistance and advice, litigation management
skills, applied strategic thinking; applied technology; budgeting and financial
management; negotiation skills, presentation skills, management skills,
communication and information management; computer literacy; continuous
improvement; citizen focus and responsiveness; diversity management; impact
and influence; managing interpersonal conflict; planning and organizing;
problem solving and decision making; teamwork; excellent communication
skills; report writing skills; organizing and planning; analytical thinking; time
management; motivational skills.
DUTIES : Provide sound legal advice/opinions on legislation drafting applicable to the
Department. Draft and review legislation and subordinate legislation of the
Department. Maintain and monitor the Department legislative programme.
Keep record of all matters relating to the Department legislative programme.
Draft, amend and review contracts. Obtain and collate inputs from stakeholders
regarding the Department legislative programme. Efficiently carry out
92
legislative drafting functions and manage processes thereof. Draft all legislative
drafting related documents, such as Cabinet Memo’s and documents required
by Parliament. Provide legislative drafting support to Policy Branch, other sub-
directorates and Director Legislative Drafting & Litigation as and when
required. Attend consultations, meetings, legislative sittings and legislative
forums in respect of legislative drafting matters. Provide legal advice and
inputs, litigation support through maintenance of liaison with State Attorney, on
legislative drafting issues. Maintain liaison and interface between the
Department and Office of the Chief State Law Advisor on legislative drafting
matters and certification of draft bills. Manage the Government Gazette
publications of the Department. Manage and direct the subordinates in the
Sub-Directorate: Legislative Drafting and Litigation. Manage human, finance,
and other resources. Candidate must be willing to adapt work schedule in
accordance with professional requirements and compelling circumstances.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Rakau, Tel: (012) 406 1512
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria) Applications: The Director-General, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at CGO
Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria or email to
Recruitment25-76@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 43/111 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (MR6): LITIGATION REF NO:
2025/148
SALARY : R586 956 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD determination)
The successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A four-year degree (LLB) with at least 8 years appropriate post-qualification
experience or four-year degree (LLB) with at least 8 years’ experience as an
in-house legal advisor or legal/contract administrator. Willingness to travel on
an ad hoc basis and adapt to a work schedule in accordance with professional
requirements, A valid driver’s licence. Admission as attorney or Advocate of the
high court and supervisory/management experience will be an added
advantage. Knowledge: Specialized knowledge of law of contracts, general
administration of contracts and litigation within an organizational context, Legal
research and professional legal assistance, In-depth knowledge of the
Framework for Supply Chain Management [Regulations in terms of the Public
Finance Management Act, 1999 (Act No. 1 of 1999) (PFMA)], Code of Conduct
for Supply Chain Management Practitioners, the PFMA, Treasury Regulations,
the Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act, 2000 (Act No. 5 of 2000),
the State Information Technology Agency Act, 1998 (Act No. 88 of 1998), the
Public Service Act, 1994 (Act No. 103 of 1994), Public Service Regulations and
other relevant legislation. Skills: Thorough and proven legal drafting,
communication and presentation skills, Sound analytical and problem
identification and solving, Language proficiency, Maintenance of confidentiality
of information, Computer literacy, Relationship management, Decision-making
skills, Interpersonal and diplomacy, Motivational, Negotiation, Mediation and
Arbitration skills.
DUTIES : Manage departmental contracts and related legal matters (issue letters of
acceptance to contractors; verify the correctness of contract documentation,
as legally-binding documents for respective parties; manage and safeguard
guarantees; manage and implement court orders as instructed; ensure the
safe-keeping of legal records and documents, such as contracts, guarantees,
etc.; and engage with Legal Services and Contract Administration, Head Office,
as and when required), Ensure the extent and effectiveness of managed
litigation and related legal matters, Ensure the extent and effectiveness of the
safety and integrity of legal records, Provide advice, guidance and opinions
regarding the interpretation and implementation of contracts and related legal
matters, Implement and monitor delegated powers as required by National
Treasury and the PFMA, Conduct research and provide professional legal
assistance, advice and support, Draft and verify legal documents, Render
assistance to and liaise with the Office of the State Attorney, in conjunction with
Head Office Legal Services regarding litigation and arbitration in which the
Department is involved, Provide an advisory and supportive role to Project
Managers and the Regional Office, Ensure the extent and effectiveness of
advice, guidance and opinions provided, Ensure the extent of compliance with
93
related standards, Ensure the extent and effectiveness of legal assistance
provided. Manage general litigation of the Department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S Roopram Tel No: (012) 406 1028
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria) Applications: The Director-General, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at CGO
Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria or email to
Recruitment25-77@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 43/112 : CONTROL WORKS MANAGER: ELECTRICAL REF NO: 2025/149
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification in Electrical (T/N/S Streams) or
equivalent, or (A N3 and a passed trade test in the Building Environment), or
(Registration as Engineering Technician and more than 6 years appropriate
experience). Ability to plan, organise and manage people and resources. A
valid driver’s license. Computer literacy. Knowledge and understanding of
OHSA, PFMA, Treasury regulations, National Building regulations and
Environment Conservation. Sound analytical and good written verbal
communication skills.
DUTIES : Manage minor projects, unplanned maintenance, building condition surveys,
asset register with reference to building work. Monitor work performance of
Works Managers and Contractors. Analyse all reports submitted by Works
Managers. Responsible for site inspections and reports and attend Client
liaison meetings. Negotiate with Contractors. Assist Facilities Management
activities such as cleaning, horticultural, security and other contracts. Compile
Scope of Works and prepare specifications, estimates and quotations. Ensure
all work complies with building regulations and OHSA and all relevant
construction regulations and specifications. Compile technical and monthly
reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Kgagara Tel No: (021) 402 2017
APPLICATIONS : Pretoria Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X229, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand Deliver to AVN
Building corner Andries and Skinner Street, Pretoria or RecruitPTA25-
13@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. K. Tlhapane/ Ms. MC. Lekganyane
POST 43/113 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PROPERTY POLICY AND LEGISLATIVE
ANALYSIS (LAND AFFAIRS BOARD - LAB) REF NO: 2025/150
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Real Estate/
Property Management/ Commercial/ Policy Development, Law, Built
Environment or in the relevant field. Relevant years of experience in the policy
and/or administrative environment. Working experience in the valuation and
any related attributes shall be advantageous. Research and report writing
skills. Fair attributes in formulating policies and strategies in the property
industry. Experience in implementing policies and administrative support to any
statutory board. Good understanding of how the regulatory environment
operates in the built environment broadly and the property policy and legislative
environment specifically. Skills: Research, Policy formulation and analysis.
planning and record management. Programme and administrative skills.
Problem identification and solving. Analytical thinking. Report writing.
Presentation skills. Knowledge of Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook.
Budgeting and Financial Management. Stakeholder liaison and management.
Interpersonal skills. Be able interface with the Board Members both at
administrative and analytical level. Knowledge: Knowledge of interfacing with
statutory Boards. Knowledge of working under Pressure, Administrative
understanding of the property industry in South Africa. project planning and
execution; capacity building; skills and enterprise development. Understanding
of government priorities. Broad Knowledge of Planning, Record Management
and organizing.
DUTIES : Administrative support to the Land Affairs Board (LAB). Interface with the Board
Members on finalization of the Board decisions and as well as the Boards
Minutes. Administrative support for the development and review of property
94
policy frameworks, strategies, and legislation in the Sub-Directorate. Assist in
the development of the Socio-economic impact assessment system (SEIAS)
for the Property Policy and Legislative Analysis Directorate. Participate in the
Public Participation Process in the Stakeholders Consultation Mechanism.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Peters, Cell: (082) 749 8866
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria) Applications: The Director-General, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at CGO
Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria or email to
Recruitment25-78@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 43/114 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE ADMINISTRATION AND
RECRUITMENT REF NO: 2025/151
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Durban Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Human
Resource Management/ Public Management / Public Administration with
extensive knowledge in the fields of Recruitment & HR Administration as well
as a minimum year’s supervisory experience. Valid driver’s Licence.
Knowledge of PERSAL, Public service Act, Public Service Regulation, Public
Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations and other relevant Prescript
applicable in the Public Service. Skills: Analytical thinking, language,
proficiency Writing skills, Numeracy, Research skills, Organising and Planning,
Computer literacy, Advanced interpersonal skills, Diplomacy and decision
making skills, Ability to work effectively and efficiently under pressure, Ability to
meet tight deadlines, Ability to Communicate at all levels, Ability to work
independently and as part of the team, Management of Resources.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient maintenance and Implementation of Human Resource
Administration and Recruitment strategies and policies. Provision of Human
Resources administration services in the region, Provision of advice-verify,
approve and Disapprove transactions on PERSAL: attend to queries and clarify
matters pertaining to Human Resource Administration: provide guidelines and
advice on Human Resource policies, procedures and processes: conduct
Information sessions on Human Resources Administration and Recruitment
matters. Ensure proper management of all Service benefits in terms of all types
of leave, state guarantees, Housing allowance, IOD. Ensure implementation of
approved HRA policies administration of appointments and services
Terminations-including payment of pension. The provision of Effective human
resource recruitment –ensure an objective and fair recruitment selection and
appointment process: Facilitate the internal and external transfer of staff:
Manage the structure of the Region. Implement JE results. Compile EE reports
per component to management of the Region the effective and efficient
management of the Human Resource Registry-ensure a safe environment for
files and other documents: put convenient registry system in place for Easy
reference; ensure the documents are well filed. The Effective and effective
management and development of Staff, conduct employee orientation, conduct
knowledge. Management and assist employee in career development.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs NS Nxumalo Tel No: (031) 314 7023
APPLICATIONS : Durban Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X54315, Durban, 4000. Hand Deliver at Corner Dr
Pixley Kasem and Samora Machel Streets Durban or email to: RecruitDBN25-
09@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NS Nxumalo
POST 43/115 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: 2025/152
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Durban Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Human
Resources Management and Labour Law, with extensive knowledge in the
fields of Employee Relations. Collective Bargaining & Dispute Resolution as
well as appropriate related experience on a supervisory level. Valid driver’s
Licence. Willingness to travel. Communication and Report writing abilities.
Knowledge of the Labour Relations Act, Standard practices, processes and
procedures related to labour relations. Knowledge of Collective Bargaining
structures and processes. Knowledge of structure and functioning of the
95
Department. Knowledge of the employment equity plan of the Department,
Public service Act, Public Service Regulation, Public Finance Management Act,
Collective agreements, codes of remuneration and other relevant Prescript
applicable in the Public Service. Skills: Analytical thinking, language,
proficiency Writing skills, Numeracy skills, Research skills, Organising and
Planning, Computer literacy, Advanced interpersonal skills, Diplomacy and
decision making skills, Ability to work effectively and efficiently under pressure,
Problem solving skills, Negotiation skills, Presentation skills, Conflict
management skills, Ability to meet tight deadlines, Ability to Communicate at
all levels, Ability to work independently and as part of the team, Management
of Resources, General administration and Organisational skills.
DUTIES : Implement and maintain labour relations policies. Provide advice regarding
labour issues in the workplace. Support formal processes with organised
labour. Assess and make recommendations regarding the effectiveness and
status of operational labour relations. Compile reports. Administer and provide
support in disciplinary matters, Assess and recommend whether conduct
warrants formal investigation. Receive complaints and liaise with relevant
stakeholders. Act as a designated officer to resolve grievances. Act as a
departmental representative in conciliations, mediations and arbitrations.
Advise and assist management and staff on dispute resolution procedures and
multi-lateral forums. Liaise with organised labour on matters of mutual interest.
Represent the Department in various bargaining structures as appoint by the
Regional Manager. Advice management and staff on issues related to labour
relations. Liaise and interact with related internal and external stakeholders.
Ensuring compliance of HR policies and practices with labour relations issues.
Promote sound labour relations, equity and diversity. Supervision and
development of staff in the labour relations sub-unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs NS Nxumalo Tel No: (031) 314 7023
APPLICATIONS : Durban Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X54315, Durban, 4000. Hand Deliver at Corner Dr
Pixley Kasem and Samora Machel Streets Durban or email to: RecruitDBN25-
10@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NS Nxumalo
POST 43/116 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HIV/AIDS ADVOCACY & SUPPORT REF NO:
2025/153
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum Degree in Social Work/Psychology or equivalent qualification. Valid
registration with HPCSA or SACSSP. Relevant years working experience in the
field. Valid driver's license. Knowledge of Public Service Act and Regulations;
Programme and Project Management; Financial Management; Relevant HIV
and AIDS related legislations, policies and regulations; National Strategic Plan
on HIV/AIDS, TB & STIs; Integrated Employee Health & Wellness Strategic
Framework; Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Skills: Report writing,
Communication; Facilitation; Interpersonal; Counselling; Presentation;
Confidentiality and code of ethics.
DUTIES : Implement Employee Health and Wellness strategy with special emphasis on
HIV/AIDS and related diseases. Develop legislative frameworks to address
HIV/AIDS and related diseases. Interpret legislation and directives in ensuring
compliance to policies and other legislative mandates. Facilitate the
mainstreaming of HIV/AIDS and other related conditions into departmental
programmes. Ensure compliance with national policies and other relevant
legislations. Conduct ongoing research on HIV/AIDS affairs and benchmark
best practices. Establish and maintain external partnerships. Implement the
National Strategic Plan on HIV/AIDS in partnership with stakeholders. Provide
counselling, preventative and care support. Coordinate periodic HCT sessions,
TB and general health screenings. Develop and implement capacity building
programmes and advocacy on HIV/AIDS and related diseases. Develop an
annual action plan for HIV/AIDS events/activities/awareness campaigns to be
hosted. Establish the processes aimed at reducing stigma and discrimination.
Monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of the interventions of HIV/AIDS
program. Compile reports on progress and challenges experienced with the
implementation of the programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A Ntsie Tel No: (012) 406 1747
96
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria) Applications: The Director-General, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at CGO
Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria or email to
Recruitment25-79@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 43/117 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN CAPITAL INVESTMENT (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Durban Ref No: 2025/154A
Mthatha Ref No: 2025/154B
Nelspruit Ref No: 2025/154C
Bloemfontein Ref No: 2025/154D
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Public
Management, Human Resource Management, Social or Management
Sciences. Appropriate working experience with Sectoral Education Training
Authority (SETAs) / Donor funding / Project Administration or Coordination of
Youth/Skills Development/ Training and Development Programmes at a
supervisory level; and possess a valid unendorsed driver’s license. Knowledge
and understanding of National Development Plan, Youth Accord, Public
Finance Management Act, Skills Development Act. The incumbent must have
the ability to work under pressure in a deadline driven environment and have
advanced computer literacy skills i.e. MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint.
Good verbal and written communication skills, Presentation, Organising,
Planning and Time Management Skills, and have the ability to work without
close supervision. The incumbent must further have working knowledge of
Financial Administration and must be willing to travel extensively.
DUTIES : Provide input in the development of the Human Capital Investment
Programmes guidelines, processes, norms & standards and strategies.
Provide technical and administrative support in the implementation of Human
Capital Investment Programmes. Procure all resources related to programmes.
Ensure alignment of programmes to the National Infrastructure Plan, Sector
Skills Plan, Workplace Skills Plan, Succession planning, and Human Capital
needs of the Department. Provide a consulting role with regards to Human
Capital Investment. Stakeholder Relations Management. Administer the
database pertaining to Human Capital Investment programmes beneficiaries.
Render administrative services to programmes’ finances. Assist in the
Development of financial processes and systems for Human Capital
Investment Programmes. Collate, consolidate and prepare invoice payments.
Prepare and facilitate claims through the SETAs. Track expenditure and
prepare financial reports to sponsors and Finance unit. Render monitoring and
evaluation services on all Human Capital Investment programmes. Assist in
the development of the overall framework of the monitoring and evaluation
activities. Collate, consolidate and analyse monthly progress reports and
provide advice. Prepare consolidated progress reports including identification
of problems, causes of potential bottlenecks in implementation, and providing
specific recommendations. Compile HCI Programmes Impact Report,
Distributes reports to sponsors. Recommend further improvement of the logical
framework.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. D Baikgaki Tel No: (012) 406 1343 / 082 957 4517
APPLICATIONS : Mthatha Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of Public Works, Private Bag X5007, Sutherland Street, Mthatha 5099 or Hand
Deliver at 29 Sutherland Street, PRD II Building, 5th Floor, Mthatha or email to:
RecruitMTH25-05@dpw.gov.za For Attention: Ms N Mzalisi
Durban Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of Public Works, Private Bag X54315, Durban, 4000. Hand Deliver at Corner
Dr Pixley Kasem and Samora Machel Streets Durban or email to:
RecruitDBN25-11@dpw.gov.za For Attention: Ms NS Nxumalo
Bloemfontein Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, P/Bag 20605, Bloemfontein, 9300 or Hand
Delivered to 18 President Brandt Street Bloemfontein, 9300 or email to:
RecruitBloem25-06@dpw.gov.za For Attention: Mr D Manus
Nelspruit Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of Public Works, Private Bag X11280, Nelspruit, 1200. Physical Address: 30
Brown Street, Nedbank Building, 9th Floor, Nelspruit or email to:
RecruitNEL25-05@dpw.gov.za For Attention: Mr E Nguyuza
97
POST 43/118 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SECURITY BREACHES INVESTIGATION REF
NO: 2025/155
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in security
management/ Policing. Proven experience in crime detection and
investigation. Valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Relevant legislation related to
public security. Including the Minimum Information Security Standards Act
(MISS). Disciplinary procedure and what constitute unprofessional conduct.
National Information Security Policy. Risk and Threats management. Safety
and Security Management and Administration, including (security Audit,
physical security measures, contingency, planning, occupational health and
safety, personnel security, document security, surveillance, information
technology security fire regulation and fire protection and communication
security). Security Environment (national State Security Agency, South African
Police Service and the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). Security
Breaches and investigation.
DUTIES : Maintain security breaches and security risk management tools and Strategies.
Conduct investigation of all security breaches within the department. Maintain
interaction with security-related and relevant authorities i.e. SAPS, and SSA.
Implement security risk management programmes within the department.
Conduct an all-encompassing security breach awareness programme within
the department. Supervise employees to ensure an effective service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Marageni Tel No: (012) 406 1632
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria) Applications: The Director-General, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at CGO
Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria or email to:
Recruitment25-80@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 43/119 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
2025/156
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Gqeberha Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Human
Resources Management, Human Resources Development, Public
Management or an equivalent qualification in Behavioural or Social Science.
Extensive Human Resource Development and Training experience. A valid
driver’s license. Thorough knowledge and understanding of SDA, OHS Act,
BCEA, PFMA, LRA, PSA, etc. Conflict and mediation management skills, Good
communication, presentation and facilitation skills, Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Advise and consult with Line Managers on Training and Development, Bursary
as well as Performance Management and Development matters. Pro-actively
manage departmental training interventions. Maintain an updated bursary,
performance management as well as training and development databases.
Facilitate the implementation of the Performance Management Development
System in the region. Implement and maintain all HR development
programmes, policies and interventions for the region. Draft accurate annual,
monthly and quarterly reports on training and development to Head Office and
related stakeholders. Drafting and timeous submission of the Regional
Workplace Skills Plan (WSP). Lead sub-projects on organizational
development interventions in the Region. Provide reports to Management and
Head Office on bursary administration, training and development And
Performance Management Development System compliance. Establish a
functional Training and Development Committee in the Region. Represent the
Regional Office at the National Training Committee (NTC). Manage the training
and development budget of the region. Perform supervisory functions. Ensure
compliance with relevant legislations and acts to avoid qualified audits. Identify
potential operational risks and facilitate the mitigation thereof.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PT Buwa Tel No: (041) 408 2344
APPLICATIONS : Port Elizabeth Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X3913, North End, Port Elizabeth,
6056. Hand delivery: Room 430, Corner. Hancock & Robert Street, North End,
Port Elizabeth, 6056 or email to RecruitPE25-07@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms PT Buswa
98
POST 43/120 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS: COLLECTIVE
BARGAINING REF NO: 2025/157
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Gqeberha Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Human
Resources Management/ Labour Relations or in the related field. Working
experience at supervisory level in Labour Relations or in the relevant field.
Drivers’ license. Knowledge of standards, practices, processes and procedures
related to labour relations, Collective bargaining structures and processes,
Structure and functioning of the Department, Employment Equity Plan of the
Department, Diversity management, Constitution of the RSA, Public Service
Act and Regulations, Employment Equity Act, Basic Conditions of Employment
Act, Labour Relations Act, Collective Agreements, Codes of Remuneration and
the Public Finance Management Act, PSCBC Resolutions, GPSSBC
Resolutions, CCMA Rules, GPSSBC Rules, PERSAL. Skills: Basic numeracy,
Interpersonal skills, General administration and organisational skills,
Interpretation of policies, Ability to undertake basic research/gather
information, Computer literacy, Analytical thinking, Problem solving skills,
Motivational skills, Conflict management, Presentation skills, Negotiation skills,
Communication and report writing abilities, Cross examination skills. Personal
Attributes: Innovative, Creative, Resourceful, Objectivity, Ability to work under
stressful situations, Ability to communicate at all levels, People orientated,
Trustworthy, Assertive, Hard-working, Self-motivated, Ability to work
independently.
DUTIES : Coordinate grievances, disputes and misconduct processes. Assess and
recommend whether the grievance or conduct warrants a formal investigation,
act as presiding officer and initiator during disciplinary enquiries, attend to
grievance cases and ensure that they are dealt with within stated timeframes,
monitor implementation and adherence to prescripts governing grievances and
misconduct processes, provide effective advice towards the resolution of
grievance cases, ensure prompt referral of grievances to the management and
PSC when necessary, coordinate and facilitate appointment of external service
providers in complex misconduct cases, accompany and assist appointed
external Legal representative in disciplinary matters, monitor and ensure
implementation of outcomes on grievance and disciplinary cases. Facilitate the
resolution of Labour Disputes and litigation cases: Represent the Department
in conciliation and arbitration processes. prepare submissions to request
mandates and to settle disputes in conciliation and arbitration, present and
prepare witnesses for arbitration cases, advise and assist management and
staff on dispute resolution procedures and multi-lateral forums, coordinate
litigation cases referred to the higher courts e.g. Labour Court, provide relevant
documents/files for the cases to Litigation unit, liaise with the Labour Court as
and when required. Facilitate collective bargaining processes e.g. DBC and
other activities: Prepare for DBC meeting, compile DBC minutes and collective
agreements, ensure adherence to GPSSBC rules and constitution, ensure
communication of policies, guidelines and collective agreement to all
stakeholders, promote and enforce cordial relationship with shop stewards,
attend to any industrial unrest that occurs. Supervise employees to ensure an
effective service and undertake all administrative functions: General
supervision of employees, allocate duties and perform quality control on the
work delivered by supervisees, advice and lead supervisees with regard to all
aspects of the work, manage performance, conduct and discipline of
supervisees, ensure that all supervisees are trained and developed to be able
to deliver work of the required standard efficiently and effectively, develop,
implement and monitor work systems and processes to ensure efficient and
effective functioning, effective and efficient administration and coordination of
accurate records/database of labour relation cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PT Buwa Tel No: (041) 408 2344
APPLICATIONS : Port Elizabeth Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X3913, North End, Port Elizabeth,
6056. Hand delivery: Room 430, Corner. Hancock & Robert Street, North End,
Port Elizabeth, 6056 or email to RecruitPE25-08@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms PT Buswa
99
POST 43/121 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: 2025/158
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Labour
Relations Management / Human Resources Management/ Labour Law.
Relevant functional experience in Employment Relations services, relevant
years of functioning at Senior Employment Relations Officer. A valid driver’s
licence. Knowledge: Labour Relations Act. Basic Conditions of Employment
Act. Public Service Act. Employment Equity Act. Public Service Regulations.
Human Resources Management Policies. Public Service Co-ordinating
Bargaining Council’s Resolutions. Collective bargaining agreements. Public
Service Commission. Policy / guidelines formulation. Public Finance
Management Act. Skills: Management. Problem solving. Organisation.
Leadership. Interpretation of legislations / policies. Budgeting / Financial.
Negotiating. Verbal and Written Communication. Presentation.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for, amongst others, the
following specific tasks: Facilitate the implementation of misconduct and
disciplinary processes in the Region. Represent the Region at all disciplinary
hearings. Provide expert advice in the Region on disciplinary and misconduct
matters. Establish partnerships and constantly liaise with external stakeholders
on labour related matters on recognized Labour unions. Represent the
Department in disputes and facilitate the acquisition of evidence and witness
for arbitration matters. Facilitate labour related programmes, collective
bargaining, grievance resolution and dispute management process in the
Region. Respond to complaints, grievances and appeals adhering to all
regulatory, accreditation and internal processing timelines and guidelines. Co-
ordinate and participate in the Regional Labour Relations forum. Conduct
research on case law, adjudication trends and developments in labour law and
labour relations. Prepare and submit reports on grievances and disputes to
Head Office and Head Of HRM: Region. Represent the Department in
mediation, conciliation and arbitration matters. Build and maintain relationships
with various stakeholders. Benchmark with various institutions for best
practice. Ensure the implementation of effective risk and compliance
management practices. Ensure effective and efficient management of human,
physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on
compliance with all regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. D Manus Tel No: (051) 408 7397
APPLICATIONS : Bloemfontein Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X, Bloemfontein, 9301 or Hand
Delivered to 18 President Brandt Street Bloemfontein 9300 or email to:
RecruitBloem25-07@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr D Manus
POST 43/122 : LEGAL ADMIN OFFICER: LEGAL AND CONTRACTS ADMINISTRATION
(MR5) REF NO: 2025/159
SALARY : R464 634 per annum, (OSD package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : LLB degree with minimum of 8 years appropriate post qualification legal
experience. Knowledge Constitution of the Republic of South Africa. Mandate
and Function of the department. System and Operation of South Africa Courts
of Law. Interpretation of Legislation. Functioning of National, Provincial and
Local Government. Employment Equity Act and related policies. PPFMA.
Public Service Act. Promotion of Access to Information Act. Magistrate Court
Act. Supreme Court Act. Skills Legislation drafting skills excellent
communication. Research and Application of the law. Report writing skills.
Organising and planning. Computer literacy. Analytical thinking. Interpersonal
skills. Innovative, Creative, Trustworthy, Hardworking, Assertive, Resourceful,
highly motivated.
DUTIES : Search and find all relevant documents for instituting and conducting an action,
application and proceeding. Consult with clients, witnesses, colleagues,
advocates, experts and any other relevant persons. Study court records, police
dockets, contract, witness statements, case and other law. Prepare court
documents which includes pleadings, affidavits, opinions, head of arguments,
notices, briefing documents applications and other. Prepare cases for court by
issuing subpoena, prepare witnesses and experts for court, paginate and index
100
court and own files. Appear in court, lead evidence, and cross-examine
witnesses and present legal arguments, consult with client and other persons
to obtain information required for the drafting of contracts to be entered into.
Research the law applicable to the specific contracts. Draft the contract
contracts and forward the signature. Draft documents that comply with the
standards and requirements of the courts and any other statutory
requirements. Use precedents appropriately. Draft a legally effective and
enforceable documents. Successfully conduct an interview in order to
determine the client’s goals and objective. Advise the clients on possible
courses of action during the consultation process, in relation to legal
entitlements and client’s instructions. Receive and peruse pleadings received
from the offices of the State Attorney to ensure that they are in accordance with
the instructions of the Department. Receive and peruse summonses served on
the Department, consider the claims and forward them to the Office of the State
Attorney with clear instructions on whether to settle or defend the claims
Consult and read legislation applicable in a particular matter. Refer to
applicable precedent and read on case law. Consult and read legal text
including on-line publications.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. RS Mogatle Tel No: (011) 713 6007
APPLICATIONS : Johannesburg Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X3, Braamfontein, 2017 or Hand
Deliver to No 78 Corner De Beer and Korte, Braamfontein, 2017 or email to:
RecruitJHB25-06@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr M Mudau
POST 43/123 : SENIOR INTERNAL AUDITOR – INTERNAL REF NO: 2025/160
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in
Auditing/Accounting/Information Technology. Registration with the Institute of
Internal Auditors. Internal Audit Technician (IAT) Qualification will be an added
advantage. A relevant practical experience in the Internal Auditing field. A valid
driver’s license is a requirement Good understanding and implementation of
the Audit process. Good communication and supervisory skills. Effective report
writing. Computer literacy. Ability to follow a proactive and creative problem-
solving approach. Knowledge of Teammate, Data Analytics systems such as
ACL will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Conduct preliminary survey procedures. Assist in development of audit
program. Conduct audit field work and collect relevant, sufficient and useful
audit evidence. Develop audit working papers. Develop audit findings with all
elements of a finding. Assess and evaluate audit evidence. Develop
conclusions on audit findings. Assist in developing draft internal audit reports.
Discuss the internal audit report with Audit Supervisor. Transfer auditing skills
to Internship students.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Gayiya Tel No: (012) 406 1402
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria) Applications: The Director-General, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at CGO
Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria or email to
Recruitment25-81@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 43/124 : SENIOR FORENSIC INVESTIGATOR: GOVERNANCE, RISK AND
COMPLIANCE BRANCH REF NO: 2025/161 (X3 POSTS)
Key Purpose Statement: To assist with the planning, executing and reporting
on assigned forensic investigations in a professional manner thereby ensuring
cost effective forensic investigations on behalf of the Department of Public
Works
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Auditing,
Financial Management, Law or Criminology. Possession of Certificate in
Forensic and Investigative Auditing will be an added advantage. Good
interpersonal, organisational and communication skills are also required. Valid
Driver’s licence.
101
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the following duties in the
office of the Director-Fraud Awareness and Investigations: To plan and
implement forensic investigations, gather comprehensive and complete
evidence of alleged serious mismanagement of resources or unprofessional
conduct, and develop summary of findings report on investigations completed
with clear findings, conclusions and recommendations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M. Mabotja Tel No: (012) 406 1328
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria) Applications: The Director-General, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at CGO
Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria or email to
Recruitment25-82@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 43/125 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCE
ADMINISTRATION: HRM REF NO: 2025/162
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Human
Resource Management or equivalent qualification. Relevant experience within
Human Resource Administration. Knowledge of HR related standards,
practices, processes and procedures, structure and functioning of the
Department, Business functions and processes of the Department, Change
Management Knowledge of PERSAL. Public Service Act and Regulations,
Employment Equity Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Skills
Development Act, collective agreements, Codes of Remuneration and the
Public Finance Management Act. Condition of service regulations and
procedures. Skills: Basic numeracy, Interpersonal skills, General
administration and organisational skills, Interpretation of policies, Ability to work
with confidential information, Ability to work within specific timeframes, Ability
to undertake basic research/gather information and Computer literacy.
Personal Attributes: Innovative, Resourceful, Analytical Thinking, People
oriented, Trustworthy, Assertive, Hard-working, Self-motivated and Ability to
work independently.
DUTIES : Implement and execute service benefits functions: Process all Government
Employee Pension Fund (GEPF) matters. Implement Government Employees
Housing scheme (GEHS) in line with applicable PSCBC Resolutions.
Administer state subsidized medical contributions. Administer long service
recognition and injury on duty. Render an effective HR advisory service to
management and employees. Approve transactions on PERSAL according to
the HR delegations. Implementation of circulars and directives from the DPSA.
Ensure policy compliance on all service benefits and conditions matters.
Process personnel appointments, transfers, promotions, relocations,
movements, service terminations on PERSAL system. Facilitate the payment
of relocation cost of employees. Capture, process and monitor personnel
related transactions on PERSAL. Ensure effective administration of leave in
the regional office. Prepare files for Auditors. Ensure effective records
management of personnel information and provide reports on conditions of
service. Ensure that all personnel files are filed in HR registry.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M. Masubelele, Tel No: (012) 492 3187
APPLICATIONS : Pretoria Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X229, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand Deliver to AVN
Building corner Andries and Skinner Street, Pretoria or email to: RecruitPTA25-
14@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. K. Tlhapane/ Ms. MC. Lekganyane
POST 43/126 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: LEGAL SERVICES REF NO:
2025/163
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Polokwane Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Administration/
Public Management or equivalent qualification and appropriate relevant
working experience. Knowledge: Departmental processes; Office
Administration; knowledge of the Framework for Supply Chain Management;
knowledge of the prescripts of the Public Service Act and its regulations,
Promotion of Access to Information act, Promotion of Administrative Justice
102
Act, Public Finance Management Act. Skills: communication and writing skills,
maintenance of confidentiality of information, computer literacy, interpersonal
skills, diary management, organising and planning, time management.
Personal Attributes: trustworthy, assertive, highly motivated, people oriented,
ability to work effectively and efficiently under pressure, ability to work
independently, ability to communicate at all levels, ability to meet deadlines
whilst delivering excellent results.
DUTIES : Provide effective and efficient administrative support to the section, Legal
Services. Maintain filing system electronically and manually; perform Logis
requests for stationery; drafting of formal standard correspondence to State
Attorney and to other Sections; typing of contract agreements and
correspondence for Legal Officers; perform office administration functions such
as typing, making copies of litigation documents, provisioning of stationery etc.;
attend to copying of bulky documents required by the Directorate; ensure that
travel arrangements are well coordinated; ensure the management,
safeguarding and maintenance of the Directorate’s assets. Handle the
procurement of standard items like stationery, refreshment etc for the activities
for the Manager and the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr NJ Khotsa Tel No: (015) 293-8004
APPLICATIONS : Polokwane Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of public works, Private Bag X9469, Polokwane, 0700 or Hand deliver at 77
Hans van Rensburg Street, Sanlam Building, Ground Floor, Polokwane or
email to RecruitPLK25-06@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr. NJ Khotsa
POST 43/127 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION
REF NO: 2025/164
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Human
Resources Management. Appropriate experience in Human Resources
Management with emphasis on HR Administration (Condition of Services).
Valid Driver’s License. Knowledge of applicable standards, practices,
processes and procedures. Good Knowledge of PERSAL and CORE, Ability to
apply and interpret Legislative frameworks such as PSA, PSR, EEA and other
regulatory prescripts for the public sector. Sound data analysis techniques and
ability to undertake basic research and gather information, Computer literacy,
good communication and report writing abilities, Analytical skills, interpersonal
relations, diplomacy, negotiation skills, conflict management and the ability to
perform under pressure.
DUTIES : Administration of condition of services and benefits. Providing an advisory
function to DPWI staff on Human Resources policies. Processing of
appointments and service terminations. Administration of pension benefits.
Assist in the policy reviews related to condition of services. Ensure that relevant
stakeholders are involved on policy making processes. Assist in sourcing
information need to report on Audit findings. Compile monthly reports and
submissions to HR manager. Assist HR Recruitment activities on ad-hoc basis.
General supervisory to employees to ensuring effective service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T. Mosia Tel No: (051) 408 7404
APPLICATIONS : Bloemfontein Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X, Bloemfontein, 9301 or Hand
Delivered to 18 President Brandt Street Bloemfontein 9300 or email to:
RecruitBloem25-08@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr D Manus
NOTE : People with disabilities are encouraged to apply
POST 43/128 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND
WELLNESS PRACTITIONER REF NO: 2025/165
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree in Social Science or Industrial Psychology. Registration with
professional bodies such as SACSSP and HPCSA. Relevant years of
experience in field. Willing to adapt work schedule in accordance with
professional requirements Knowledge of Employee health and wellness
practices, knowledge and understanding of HIV as a developmental issue,
103
specialised knowledge of counselling, people management and
empowerment, client orientation and customer focus, Structure and functioning
of the Department and the sector. Language proficiency, effective
communication, presentation skills, general management and organisational
skills, interpretation of policies, ability to undertake research/gather
information, ability to work independently. A valid driver`s license and
willingness to travel is essential.
DUTIES : HIV/AIDS and TB management: Mainstream HIV/AIDS and TB into the core
functions of the department; Provide education, awareness and prevention
programmes. Plan and conduct regular Health screenings. Distribution of
wellness information material and articles. Health and Productivity
Management Services: Coordinate Disease Management & Chronic illnesses
awareness and education sessions, workshops; Support the department with
incapacity cases. Organise Mental Health information sessions and distribution
of articles on a regular basis. Liaise and make referrals to Mental Health
institutions when required. Occupational Health and Safety Management:
create awareness on occupational safety behaviour and provide information
related to Injury on duty. Wellness management: Promote work life balance for
employees. Provide support to Individuals through Wellness intervention
(Psychosocial). Provide counselling to individual employees and their
immediate family members. Conduct group counselling sessions for e.g.
debriefing or trauma. Provide management with feedback through progress
reports on referred cases while maintaining confidentiality. Support and advice
managers on handling employees experiencing wellness related challenges.
Promote individual Physical Wellness by encouraging sports activities. Plan
and conduct retirement sessions. Facilitate and assist in the Medical Health
Surveillance of employees placed on hazardous environment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. D Manus Tel No: (051) 408 7397
APPLICATIONS : Bloemfontein Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X, Bloemfontein, 9301 or Hand
Delivered to 18 President Brandt Street, Bloemfontein, 9300 or email to:
RecruitBloem25-09@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr D Manus
POST 43/129 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: RECRUITMENT & PLANNING REF
NO: 2025/166
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Mmabatho Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Human
Resource Management or related field. Appropriate working experience in
Human Resource Recruitment Management. Knowledge: Standards,
practices, processes and procedures related to HR Recruitment. Structure and
functioning of the Department. Employment Equity Plan of the Department.
Public Service Act and Regulations. Employment Equity Act. PERSAL. Basic
Condition Act. Public finance Management Act. Codes of Remuneration.
Conflict Management. Project management. Skills: Numeracy. Interpersonal
and diplomacy skills. Advisory skills. Supervisory skills. General administration
and organization skills. Computer utilization. Analytical thinking. Problem
solving skills. Communication and report writing abilities. Personal Attributes:
Creative. Ability to work under stressful situations. Ability to communicate at all
levels. People Orientated, Punctuality, Assertive, Hard-working, Self-
motivated, Ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Facilitate and implement advertising process. Receive and implement staff
requisitions forms and motivation for posts to be advertised. Facilitate the
drafting of advertisements. Implementation of recruitment and selection
processes. Keep records of application. Oversee sorting of received
applications. Ensure development of applicant’s profiles. Facilitate the
invitation of shortlisted applicants. Represent Human resources in interviews
of shortlisted applicants. Communicate with successful applicants. Verify
results, certificates and qualifications. Facilitate the compilation of appointment
letters. Facilitate personal planning requirements. Compile, maintain and
communicate the human resource plan. Undertake the human resource
assessments as prescribed. Promote the achievement of employment equity
and support the employment equity plan. Keep abreast of changes in
employment legislation and ensure that related HR processes are aligned
thereto. Supervise employees to ensure an effective service delivery. General
104
supervision of employees. Allocate duties and perform quality control on the
work delivered by supervisees. Advice and lead supervisees with regard to all
aspects of the work. Manage performance, conduct and discipline of
supervisees. Ensure that all supervisees are trained and developed to be able
to deliver work of the of the required standard efficiently and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T Oagile Tel No: (018) 386 5217
APPLICATIONS : Mmabatho Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of Public Works, Private Bag X120, Mmabatho, 2735 or Hand Deliver at 810
Corner Albert Luthuli Drive and Maisantwa Streets, Unit 3, Mmabatho, 2735 or
email to: RecruitMBT25-05@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr T. Oagile
POST 43/130 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCE
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: 2025/167
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Mmabatho Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Human
Resource Development or any relevant qualification. Relevant working
experience in Human Resource Development or related. Experience in
training, development and performance management practices.
Understanding of the ETD environment including SAQA, NQF Frameworks and
SETA’s. Knowledge of PERSAL, National Skills Development Strategies and
standards as well as practices, processes and procedures related to
management of skills development. Thorough knowledge of the Skills
Development Act, Treasury regulations, PMDS, PFMA and other Regulatory
Frameworks related to HRD. Excellent Computer Skills in MS Excel,
Powerpoint and MS Words. Data analysis techniques. Good Report Writing
Skills. Ability to communicate at all levels. Excellent Communication (verbal &
written). Decision Making Skills. Advanced Interpersonal and diplomacy skills.
Ability to work under pressure and deadline driven. Willingness to travel and a
valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Coordinate skills development initiatives in the regional office. Facilitate the
process of sourcing the training service providers, Create, maintain a database
on courses attended and service providers. Coordinate the implementation of
Performance Management and Development System (PMDS) within the
regional office. Facilitate and administer other Human Resource Development
activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T Oagile Tel No: (018) 386 5217
APPLICATIONS : Mmabatho Regional Office: The Regional Manager, Department of Public
Works, Private Bag X120, Mmabatho, 2735 or 810 Corner Albert Luthuli Drive
and Maisantwa Streets, Unit3, Mmabatho, 2735 or email to: RecruitMBT25-
06@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr. T Oagile
POST 43/131 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO:
2025/168
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Human
Resources Management/ Labour Relations or relevant qualification. A
minimum of relevant years’ experience in Labour Relations or in the relevant
field. Valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Knowledge of standards, practices,
processes and procedures related to labour relations. Collective bargaining
structures and processes. Structure and functioning of the Department.
Employment Equity Plan of the Department. Diversity management.
Constitution of the RSA, Public Service Act and Regulations, Employment
Equity Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Labour Relations Act,
Collective Agreements.
DUTIES : Facilitate and administer grievance and misconduct processes. Conduct
investigations on grievance and misconduct cases; Facilitate the appointment
of external service providers in complex misconduct cases; Coordinate
grievance an disciplinary hearing proceedings ; Prepare evidence for
disciplinary hearings, including preparing witnesses to testify; Render advice
in disciplinary hearings and to investigating officers appointed by the
Department; Ensure that grievances are dealt with within stated timeframes;
105
Facilitate the implementation and communicate outcomes on grievance and
misconduct cases to all stakeholders; Draft appeal memo’s; Capture
grievances, disciplinary cases and suspensions on the applicable system.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Mudau Tel No: (011) 713 6024
APPLICATIONS : Johannesburg Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X3, Braamfontein, 2017 or Hand
Deliver to No 78 Corner De Beer and Korte, Braamfontein, 2017 or email to:
RecruitJHB25-07@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr M Mudau
POST 43/132 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: RECRUITMENT & PLANNING REF
NO: 2025/169
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Nelspruit Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Human
Resource Management or related field. Appropriate working experience in
Human Resource Recruitment Management. Knowledge: Standards,
practices, processes and procedures related to HR Recruitment. Structure and
functioning of the Department. Employment Equity Plan of the Department.
Public Service Act and Regulations. Employment Equity Act. PERSAL. Basic
Condition Act. Public finance Management Act. Codes of Remuneration.
Conflict Management. Project management. Skills: Numeracy. Interpersonal
and diplomacy skills. Advisory skills. Supervisory skills. General administration
and organization skills. Computer utilization. Analytical thinking. Problem
solving skills. Communication and report writing abilities. Personal Attributes:
Creative. Ability to work under stressful situations. Ability to communicate at all
levels. People Orientated, Punctuality, Assertive, Hard-working, Self-
motivated, Ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Facilitate and implement advertising process. Receive and implement staff
requisitions forms and motivation for posts to be advertised. Facilitate the
drafting of advertisements. Implementation of recruitment and selection
processes. Keep records of application. Oversee sorting of received
applications. Ensure development of applicant’s profiles. Facilitate the
invitation of shortlisted applicants. Represent Human resources in interviews
of shortlisted applicants. Communicate with successful applicants. Verify
results, certificates and qualifications. Facilitate the compilation of appointment
letters. Facilitate personal planning requirements. Compile, maintain and
communicate the human resource plan. Undertake the human resource
assessments as prescribed. Promote the achievement of employment equity
and support the employment equity plan. Keep abreast of changes in
employment legislation and ensure that related HR processes are aligned
thereto. Supervise employees to ensure an effective service delivery. General
supervision of employees. Allocate duties and perform quality control on the
work delivered by supervisees. Advice and lead supervisees with regard to all
aspects of the work. Manage performance, conduct and discipline of
supervisees. Ensure that all supervisees are trained and developed to be able
to deliver work of the of the required standard efficiently and effectively
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Nguyuza Tel No: (013) 753 6319
APPLICATIONS : Nelspruit Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X11280, Nelspruit, 1200. Physical Address: 30
Brown Street, Nedbank Building, 9th Floor, Nelspruit or email to:
RecruitNEL25-06@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr E Nguyuza
POST 43/133 : EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS PRACTITIONER
ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (HRM) REF NO: 2025/170
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree in Social Science or Behavioural related qualification. Relevant years
of experience. Registration with South Africa Council for Social Services
Professions (SACSSP) as a Social Worker or the Health Professions Council
of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Psychologist. A valid driver’s licence and
willingness to travel are essential. Knowledge and understanding of Human
Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) as a Development Issue. Specialised knowledge
of counselling and Occupational Health and Safety Act. Knowledge Of: Public
106
Service Act & Regulations, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Labour
Relations Act, Collective Agreements, Codes of Remuneration and the Public
Finance Management Act. Skills: Networking, language proficiency, effective
communication, presentation skills, interpretation of policies, computer literacy,
motivational skills and report writing abilities. Personal Attributes: Innovative,
resourceful, analytical thinking and ability to work independently. Appropriate
knowledge in Employee Wellness Programmes as well as short term
counselling.
DUTIES : Facilitate the implementation of HIV/AIDS and TB management programmes.
Provide education and awareness Prevention programmes. Plan and conduct
regular Health screenings HCTs. Provide treatment, care and support to
employees. Conduct Human Rights and access to Justice awareness
education. Conduct dialog conversation session on stigma and discrimination.
Distribution of condoms and information material. Provide Health and
Productivity Management Services. Coordinate Disease Management &
Chronic illness awareness and education sessions, workshop. Conduct
presentation on chronic illness management and identification. Liaise and
make referrals to Mental Health institutions when required. Facilitate the
implementation of Employee Health and Wellness Intervention programmes.
Provide support to individual through Wellness Intervention (Psychological).
Support and advice managers on handling employees experiencing wellness
related challenges. Conduct regular awareness on Safety, Health, Risk &
Quality Management. Promote Occupational Health and Safety in the
organisation. Assist in the assessment on Environmental Risk. Conduct
awareness on safety clothing.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Rossouw Tel No: (021) 402 2014
APPLICATIONS : Cape Town Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of Public Works, Private Bag X9027, Cape Town, 8000. Or Hand Deliver at
Ground floor, Customs House Building, Lower Heerengracht Street, Cape
Town or email to: RecruitCPT25-16@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. C Rossouw
POST 43/134 : ADMIN OFFICER: SCREENING SERVICES REF NO: 2025/171
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF level 6) in Management
Sciences/ Security Management/ Public Management, appropriate working
experience in Security Screening Services and a valid motor vehicle driver's
license. Must be prepared to travel. Knowledge: National security environment
and security policies, Relevant legislation related to public security including
the Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS) Act, Procurement
processes and systems, financial administration, Risk management, screening
techniques, Interviewing techniques. Skills: Computer literacy, Report writing
and presentation skills, Interpersonal and diplomacy skills, Problem solving
skills, Effective communication, Organization and planning, Decision making
skills, Conflict resolution, analytical skill. Personal Attributes: Solution
orientated, People orientated, Innovative, Creative, Hard-working. Willingness
to successfully attend prescribed training courses, prepared to work irregular
and long hours, Security clearance, willing to adapt work schedule in
accordance with professional requirements.
DUTIES : Analyse and evaluate security screening reports, conduct quality control of the
screening reports, planning and management of screening projects, manage
pre-employment screening of prospective employees and service providers
and provide relevant managers with quality and reliable screening reports,
assist in developing screening policy, strategy and standard operating
procedures, conduct security screening awareness programmes within the
department. Co-ordinate screening compliance with Regional Offices, provide
quality screening reports to supervisors, manage the contracted screening
database service provider, verification of payment invoices, keeping records,
manage screening databases, supervise subordinate and performance
management, assist with procurement and financial management, co-ordinate
and liaise with SSA, SAPS and relevant stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs D Mahlangu Tel No: (012) 406 1643
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria) Applications: The Director-General, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at CGO
107
Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria or email to
Recruitment25-83@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 43/135 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT REF
NO: 2025/172
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Human
Resource Management or equivalent qualification. A minimum of one year
experience in human resource development or related. Willing to adapt work
schedule with professional requirement, willing to travel and a driver’s licence.
Knowledge: Knowledge of PERSAL, Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulation, Employment Equity Act, PFMA, Skills Development Act,
Treasury Regulations, PMDS, South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA).Skill: communication skills, analytical thinking, computer literacy,
report writing skills, numeracy, research skills, organising and planning,
computer literacy, advance, interpersonal and diplomacy skills, decision
making and project management skills.
DUTIES : Monitor the management of skills development in the region: Assist to conduct
skills auditing and reporting. Provide support in the development of Workplace
Skills Plan (WSP). Administer the identification of priority or core training areas
as informed by WSP. Take part in awareness programmes in support of skills
development. Administer training interventions that are in line with the
Department’s Vision, PDPs and aligned to SAQA specifications: Provide advice
on training interventions for staff. Administer the process of sourcing the
training service providers. Assist to collect data for training plans. Facilitate the
implementation of the training plan. Organise relevant courses and process
applications. Prepare all logistics for training. Monitor facilitation of workshops
and training interventions. Maintain a database on courses attended and
service providers. Receive individual employee submissions requesting
training interventions and advise accordingly. Compile training related memos
for approval by the delegated authority. Compile data on training statistics and
assist with compilation of training reports. Facilitate the implementation of the
Performance Management and Development System (PMDS) within the
regional office-: Facilitate the submission of performance agreements.
Coordinate the submission of midterm and annual reviews. Quality assure
submitted documents. Arrange moderation committee meetings. Compile
minutes during moderation committee meetings and provide advice as needed.
Inform employees about outcomes of moderation committees and facilitate
feedback forms sign-off. Arrange meetings to discuss dissatisfaction cases.
Compile a spreadsheet for employees who qualify for performance incentives.
Provide support and advice to supervisors and managers on the administration
of the performance management process in general.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Mudau Tel No: (011) 713 6024
APPLICATIONS : Johannesburg Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X3, Braamfontein, 2017 or Hand
Deliver to No 78 Corner De Beer and Korte, Braamfontein, 2017 or email to:
RecruitJHB25-08@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr M Mudau
POST 43/136 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT TO THE REGIONAL MANAGER REF NO:
2025/173
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Mthatha Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF level 06) in Management
Assistant, Secretariat, Office management or equivalent. Relevant years of
experience in customer relations and client liaison, in addition, applicants must
have the knowledge of budgeting processes and how to apply them. Driver’s
licence is compulsory. The ability to liaise at Senior Management level and
ability to work and cope under intense pressure are important prerequisites.
Maintain confidentiality and be able to work independently, with minimum
supervision. Advanced report formatting and document compilation skills &
ability to multitask. Advanced computer literacy in MS office packages (MS
Word, MS Excel and MS PowerPoint). Advanced knowledge of Government
108
policies, administrative procedures, document control, meeting protocols and
office governance. Knowledge of Government Procurement processes will be
an advantage.
DUTIES : Manage the traffic in the office of the Regional Manager, efficient and effective
Human Resources, Financial administrative support, Perform the duties of
Regional Manager User Clerk in the office of incoming and outgoing post,
Maintain a filing registry in the office of the Regional Manager , Provisioning of
stationery and supplies, Maintaining an electronic post register for
management of the Regional Manager’s diary, Schedule meetings and
telephone management, Make official travel arrangements for the Regional
Manager, Assist with the preparation and development of Regional Managers’
presentations, reports and minutes of meetings, Arrange official functions for
the office of the Regional Manager, Assist in the identification and development
of training material for the Regional Manager and organise training facilities,
Responsible for procurement processes within the office of the Regional
Manager and manage the petty cash, Assist in the development of the MTEF
budget of the Regional Manager and develop and maintain a monthly
commitment register, Ensure the security profile and classification of
documentation reports and information related to the office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Hlengwa Tel No: (047) 502 7010
APPLICATIONS : Mthatha Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works and Infrastructure, Private Bag X5007, Mthatha, 5009.
Alternatively, hand deliver to Prd II Building 5th floor, Sutherland Street,
Mthatha or email to: RecruitMTH25-06@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. N Mzalisi Tel No: (047) 502 7005
NOTE : Practical exercise/ assessment will form part of the selection process.
POST 43/137 : SENIOR SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: 2025/174
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (matric certificate). Valid PSIRA Grade B registration
certificate, Relevant experience in Physical Security Management. Valid
driver’s licence. Knowledge: Relevant security legislation and the Minimum
Physical Security Standards (MISS), National security environment and
security policies; relevant legislation related to public security and access
control, including the Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS) Act; risk
management; fire-fighting; first aid.
DUTIES : Supervise the effective delivery of security services. the administration of
security services. Drafting and management of duty rosters. Supervision of
security officers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Tad Marageni Tel No: (012) 406 1632
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria) Applications: The Director-General, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at CGO
Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria or email to
Recruitment25-84@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 43/138 : SECURITY OFFICER: SEURITY MANAGEMENT SERVIVES REF NO:
2025/175 (X9 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (matric certificate). Valid PSIRA Grade B registration
certificate, Relevant experience in Physical Security Management. Valid
driver’s licence. Knowledge: Relevant security legislation and the Minimum
Physical Security Standards (MISS), National security environment and
security policies; relevant legislation related to public security and access
control, including the Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS) Act; risk
management; firefighting; first aid.
DUTIES : Supervise the effective delivery of security services. Support the administration
of security services. Drafting and management of duty rosters. Supervision of
security officers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Tad Marageni Tel No: (012) 406 1632
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria) Applications: The Director-General, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at CGO
109
Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria or email to
Recruitment25-85@Dpw.Gov.Za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
110
ANNEXURE M
DEPARTMENT OF SPORT, ARTS AND CULTURE (DSAC)
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted using one of the following methods: Email to
recruitment2024@dsac.gov.za, quoting the reference number and title of the
position on the subject line. There will be no follow-up emails to this address.
Hand delivery: Sealed envelope addressed to Chief Director: Human Resource
Management and Development, Sechaba House, 202 Madiba Street, Pretoria
Central. Postal mail to The Chief Director: Human Resource Management and
Development, Private Bag X897, Pretoria, 0001. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. Applications received after the closing
date will not be considered or accepted.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : Each application must be submitted separately. Applications must consist of: A
recently updated, comprehensive CV, a fully completed, initialled and signed
new Z83 form (Sections A, B, C&D are compulsory and must be completed in
full, and sections E, F and G are not compulsory if the information is contained
in the CV). However, the question related to conditions that prevent
reappointment under Part F must be answered. Use of the old Z83 Form or not
completing compulsory sections of the application form will result in a
disqualification. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to bring certified
copies of ID, Driver’s licence (where required) and qualifications on or before
the interview. Should you be in possession of any foreign qualification(s), it
must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualification Authority (SAQA); Applicants must be South African citizens.
Shortlisted candidates must avail themselves for a virtual or in-person panel
interview at a date and time determined by DSAC. The applicant should make
own arrangement for access to internet connectivity and equipment for this
purpose. Applicants must note that pre-employment checks and references will
be conducted once they are shortlisted. The appointment is also subject to a
positive outcome on these checks, including security clearance, security
vetting, qualification/study verification, citizenship verification, financial/asset
record check, previous employment verification and criminal record. If an
applicant wishes to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing. We
encourage all applicants to declare any criminal and/or negative credit records.
All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate will be required
to enter into an employment contract and sign an annual performance
agreement. The Department of Sport, Arts and Culture is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be informed by the
Employment Equity Plan of the Department to achieve its Employment Equity
targets. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and
disability) through the filling of these posts. Should the Department not be able
to recruit candidates from disadvantaged groups, other groups will be
considered for appointment. The Department reserves the right not to make an
appointment and to use other recruitment processes, thus withdrawing this
advert by notice on its communication channels. Prior to appointment for SMS
post, a candidate would be required to complete the Nyukela Programme: Pre-
entry Certificate to Senior Management Services as endorsed by the DPSA,
which is an online course endorsed by the National School of Government
(NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry
into the SMS and the full details can be sourced from the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. If you
have not been contacted within three months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. We
thank all applicants for their interest.
OTHER POSTS
POST 43/139 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE ADMINISTRATION SERVICES
REF NO: DSAC-04/11/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration salary package)
consists of a basic salary, Sate’s contribution to the Government Employees
Pension Fund (13% of Basic salary) and a flexible portion that may be
111
structured in terms of applicable rules Middle Management Services
Guidelines)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/ Matric / Grade 12 Certificate/ NQF level 4 or equivalent
qualification. A minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF Level 6)/ Degree
(NQF Level 7) as recognized by SAQA in Human Resource Management /
Public Management and Administration or any relevant Human Resource
qualification. PERSAL Certificate. 3-5 years relevant experience, at least 3
years at an Assistant Director level in Human Resource Administration
environment. Knowledge of Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of Human
Resources Management policies, systems, and procedures. Knowledge of
recruitment and selection strategies, performance management, and HR
practices and systems. Knowledge of Conditions of Employment Act.
Knowledge of PSCBC Resolutions and relevant HR frameworks. Knowledge
of PERSAL Management system. Knowledge of Code of Remunerations.
Good communication and interpersonal relations. Planning and organizational
skills. Problem-solving and decision-making abilities. Computer and digital
literacy. Presentation skills Report writing skills Client orientation and customer
focus. Knowledge of Human Resource Information System.
DUTIES : Oversee the recruitment, selection, and appointment processes and other
Human Resource transactions. Ensure transparency, fairness, and compliance
with HR policies. Implement and monitor recruitment strategies to attract and
retain top talent. Ensure alignment of recruitment practices with workforce
planning needs. Ensure accurate and up-to-date personnel records in
compliance with departmental and DPSA requirements. Provide oversight on
job advertisements, shortlisting, interview processes, and final appointment
decisions. Oversee pre-employment screening processes. Facilitate
orientation and onboarding for newly appointed employees. Compile and
coordinate reports on Recruitment and Selection. Provide guidance and
advisory support on, recruitment and selection in line with HRM Regulatory
Framework. Oversee the administration of employee benefits, and conditions
of service. Ensure compliance with relevant laws, policies, and organizational
guidelines related to employee welfare. Monitor and update employment
information. Provide guidance and advisory support on, conditions of service
and employee benefits in line with HRM Regulatory Framework. Compile and
coordinate reports on employee benefits and conditions of service. Automate
and monitor conditions of service and benefits administration systems. Use
data analytics to monitor employee satisfaction and proactively address
service-related matters. Develop, review, and implement internal HR
administration services. Oversee the implementation and maintenance of HR
administrative systems and procedures. Provide expect advise on HR
operational efficiencies, compliance, and digital transformation. Continuously
monitor and improve HR processes to enhance operational efficiency. Maintain
and update HR administrative records and operating procedures. Drive change
management initiatives to embed a culture of innovation and agility within HR
processes. Lead the digitization of HR administrative processes, including
recruitment & selection, employee benefits and conditions of service. Oversee
the adoption of HR Information Systems (HRIS) and ensure seamless
integration with existing platforms such as PERSAL). Champion automation of
repetitive tasks to improve turnaround times and reduce administrative burden.
Conduct research on best HR practices in relation to AI. Allocate work to
subordinates. Advise and lead subordinates with regard to all aspects of the
work. Manage performance, conduct and discipline of subordinates. Ensure
that subordinates are trained and developed. Oversee the HR budget, ensuring
effective financial planning and cost management. Identify and mitigate risks
associated with HR administration and labour relations. Provide leadership and
capacity development to HR team members. Ensure compliance with
governance, risk, and performance management requirements within the HR
function. Provide guidance to HR personnel on the correct application of
procedures. Build capacity within the HR team to embrace digital tools and AI
technologies. Manage risks associated with data privacy, cybersecurity, and
compliance, ethical standards in digital HR operations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Z Maloka Tel No: (012) 441 3730
112
POST 43/140 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: DSAC-05/11/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration salary package)
consists of a basic salary, Sate’s contribution to the Government Employees
Pension Fund (13% of Basic salary) and a flexible portion that may be
structured in terms of applicable rules Middle Management Services
Guidelines)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate/ NQF level 4 or
equivalent qualification. A minimum three-year Degree/National Diploma (NQF
level 6) / Degree (NQF Level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Risk Management
/ Commerce / Forensic Auditing / Enterprise Risk Management or any other
relevant Risk Management qualification. Membership to the Institute of Risk
Management South Africa or any relevant risk membership. 3-5 years relevant
experience, at least 3 years at an Assistant Director level in Risk management,
Compliance, Business Continuity Management, any Risk and integrity
management environment. Knowledge and Understanding of Risk
Management Competency Framework. Knowledge and application of Risk
Management Standards, risk management methodology and Business
Continuity Management. Knowledge and understanding of recognized
Enterprise Risk Management software in the industry such as BarnOwl/ CURO.
Knowledge and understanding of the Public Finance Management Act,
National Treasury Regulations and Public sector prescripts. Knowledge of
Public Service Regulation and Acts Analytical skills. Presentation Skills.
Computer literacy. Project management skills. Planning and organisational
skills. Good communication and interpersonal relations. Problem solving skills.
Client Orientation and Customer Focus.
DUTIES : Provide inputs for the development, implementation and monitoring and review
of Risk Management policy. Develop, communicate and implement annual
Business Impact Analysis outcomes in conjunction with line function. Develop
and update the annual Compliance Risk Management Plan for identified high
risk Regulation per annum. Implement risk management operational plans
approved by management. Monitor, evaluate and improve the effectiveness
and efficiency of all adopted risk assessments within the Department
(Strategic, Operational, Compliance; Project and BCM assessments). Report
on compliance risk trends and improvement initiatives. Oversee the execution
of the Business Continuity Management Plan within the Department (Strategic
Operational, Compliance; Project and BCM assessments) Report on
compliance risk trends and improvement initiatives. Oversee the execution of
the Business Continuity Management Plan within the Department. Undertake
studies and analysis for identifying risks to establish the internal and external
Organisational context. Manage, facilitate and advice on the risk management
assessment process. Manage, monitor and review the identified risk response
activities. Compile risk profile (ensure that the risk register is maintained).
Assist in the compilation of Compliance Risk Management Plans. Facilitate risk
assessments. at strategic, operational processes and systems to identify
required risks and controls and provide guidance to management. Monitor
effective implementation of mitigation strategies. Review progress reports on
the effective implementation or risk mitigation. Maintain an accurate database
for Risk Incidents as reported. Provide risk mitigation status on ERM quarterly
reporting. Analyse Departmental Risk Management trends and data. Review
and provide inputs on submitted monthly and quarterly reports from relevant
units. Oversee and drive the risk management projects. Communicate the
Department’s Framework and ensure awareness of the Risk Management
methodology. Prepare operational risk reports to the Risk Committee; EMT,
Branch Management. Undertake awareness intervention on Risk Management
within the Department. Provide guidance on using the adopted ERM System
and maintain online system reporting. Assess and respond to audit queries
about the system and maintain change management. Manage and administer
permissions to the ERM system. Resolve internal system complaints prior to
escalation for external support. Conduct research on emerging risk
management trends and methodologies for communication to the Directorate.
Consolidate quarterly reports for tabling at the oversight committees [Risk
Committee, Business Continuity, ICT Steering Committee]. Circulate the
Committees packs electronically within the set timelines. Ensure that Risk
Committee minutes and Resolutions are distributed, updated and tracked on
the system. Facilitate Risk Committee Self -Assessment survey and prepare
113
report for the Committee. Manage and undertake capacity development for
Committee members in their respective capacities. Follow-up and escalate on
reported response strategies that require management attention, across
allocated Committees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. B Spencer Tel No: (012) 441 3097
POST 43/141 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTERNAL COMMUNICATION REF NO: DSAC-
06/11/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration salary package)
consists of a basic salary, Sate’s contribution to the Government Employees
Pension Fund (13% of Basic salary) and a flexible portion that may be
structured in terms of applicable rules Middle Management Services
Guidelines)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification. A minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF Level 6)/ Degree
(NQF Level 7) as recognized by SAQA in Communications / Public Relations /
Media Studies / Journalism or any relevant Communication qualification. A
valid driver’s licence. Willingness to travel extensively 3-5 years relevant
experience at least 3 years at an Assistant Director level in Communication.
and Public Relations environment. Knowledge and understanding of Media,
communication principles, tools and techniques. Understanding of Operations
of different Media sections. Knowledge of Marketing and Promotional
Strategies. Knowledge and understanding of the South African media
landscape and operations. Knowledge of GCIS guidelines for internal
communication and website. General knowledge of relevant policies, Acts,
Regulations and frameworks. Research and analytical thinking. Problem
solving skills. Project Management skills. Conflict Management. Good
Communication and interpersonal relations. Computer literacy. Creative
writing, editing, and Reporting skills and innovation.
DUTIES : Ensure an efficient intergovernmental system within the department through
stakeholder engagements with national, provincial, and local government.
Liaison with GCIS by facilitating departmental inputs towards the GCET report.
Provide support and content to ICTS and Social Clusters and the Government
Communicator’s Forum (GCF). Attend and provide departmental inputs at the
government’s Rapid Response meetings and any other meetings. Attend GCIS
internal communication forum and implement decisions of the forum.
Communicate the department’s programme’s priorities, Annual Performance
Plan and achievements to increase participation from all stakeholders. Develop
and maintain the departmental internal communication strategies. Ensure
implementation of internal communication strategies. Measure the
effectiveness of internal communication within the department. Ensure
communication initiatives support strategic priorities. Conduct research on new
trends. Develop and implement an annual internal communication plan
inclusive of the quarterly departmental newsletter. Share departmental
information to ensure all public servants/employees are informed about key
government/departmental programme priorities, policies, and any relevant
information. Coordinate and lead the Communicator’s Forum of the department
(inclusive of provincial and all entities). Manage usage of internal
communication channels to distribute messages. Conduct surveys to
determine the effectiveness of internal communication platforms. Collaborate
with HR and Change Management teams to support organisational
development initiatives. Facilitate internal Networking Sessions. Manage and
maintain internal communication platforms (e.g., intranet, email systems,
notice boards, internal social media). Draft and send out media advisories and
statements as and when required. Assist to facilitate the development of media
responses to prevent a negative reputation of the department- Acknowledge
all media inquiries and indicate the intention of the Department. Support the
media briefings on Departmental activities. Support the coordination of the
media networking sessions. Support in the development of media
communication plans and implementation. Develop and coordinate media
buying plan with costing, media platforms and frequency. Coordinate and
support the appointment of the departmental media buying service provider.
Oversee the creation, editing, and dissemination of internal newsletters,
intranet content, circulars, memos, and other internal publications. Ensure
messaging is consistent, clear, and aligned with departmental tone and
114
branding guidelines. Develop communication monthly/quarterly reporting.
Develop forewords and speaking notes/speeches as and when required by the
Chief Director. Assist in the development content for the department’s social
media platforms. Compile and present reports with recommendations for
improvement.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Z Velaphi Tel No: (012) 441 3010
POST 43/142 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: DSAC-07/11/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification. A minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF 6) / Degree (NQF
level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Commerce / Risk Management / Enterprise
Risk Management or any other relevant Risk qualification. Membership to the
Institute of Risk Management South Africa. 2-3 years relevant experience at
least 2 years as a risk management or compliance officer in facilitating risk
assessments and risk reports or in any risk, Anti-Corruption and Integrity
management environment. Knowledge and Understanding of Risk
Management Competency Framework. Knowledge and application of Risk
Management Standards and risk management methodology and Business
Continuity Management. Knowledge and understanding of recognized
Enterprise Risk Management software in the industry (e.g. BarnOwl, CURO).
Knowledge and understanding of the Public Finance Management Act,
National Treasury Regulations and Public sector prescripts. Knowledge of
Public Service Regulation and Acts. Analytical skills. Presentation Skills.
Computer literacy. Planning and organisational skills. Good communication
and interpersonal relations. Problem solving skills. Client Orientation and
Customer Focus.
DUTIES : Participate in the review of the Risk strategies methodologies, models, tools
and policies. Implement the Risk Management Plan. Gather data and quality
review for risk maturity. Support the establishment of risk management
philosophy and Culture in the Department. Develop and maintain stakeholder
and client relationships. Collect statistical information on indicators of risks.
Detect changes in the risk environment (internal and external context). Capture
and maintain electronic database on risk management information. Participate
and assist in the implementation of the BCM strategies and Plans. Facilitate,
analyse and identify risks within the Department. Evaluate risks against set
criteria. Develop and implement appropriate risk responses. Compile and
maintain a comprehensive risk profile. Develop and maintain the risk profile
including the risk register. Compile and submit risk management reports as
required to oversight structures and management on the risk mitigation
outcomes. Monitor the implementation of the progress of activities to address.
Revise risk response activities. Report on the status of risk responses.
Coordinate capacity building, promote risk awareness and training in the
Department. Conduct follow-ups and verify that mitigation measures are
effective and sustainable. Maintain records of all risk monitoring activities for
audit and compliance purposes. Facilitate the Risk Champion meetings.
Participate in the risk Committee and Business Continuity Management (BCM)
Committee. Provide secretariat support within the Committees. Capture and
communicate resolutions taken within the relevant Committee meetings.
Update and follow-up on the successful reporting of relevant Committee
Resolutions. Facilitate and coordinate the Risk Management Reports for
tabling to oversight committees. Facilitate and develop Business Impact
Analysis at an organizational level. Coordinate routine updates to the available
information support BCM procedures (e.g. List of hardware and software
specifications). Prepare the collating of reports against the Department’s
approved Business Continuity Plans. Plan and coordinate at least on
simulation exercise annually, involving all critical business units. Assist in the
testing of Business Continuity Plan.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. B Spencer Tel No: (012) 441 3097
115
ANNEXURE N
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT
Department of Transport is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer with clear employment
equity targets. Department of Transport is an equal opportunity employer and these posts will be filled in
accordance with employment equity targets of the department.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Transport, Private Bag X193, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at
the 159 Forum Building, Cnr Struben and Bosman Street, Pretoria for attention
Recruitment Unit, Room 4034 or email to: Recruitment@dot.gov.za. Note:
email applications must be sent as one attachment to avoid non-delivery of the
email and only quotes the name of the post you are applying for on the Subject
Line as directed on the post note.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
NOTE : Applications must be accompanied by a completed new Z83 form, obtainable
from any Public Service Department, (or obtainable at). Applicants must fill in
full new Z83 form part A, B, C, and D. A recent updated comprehensive CV
(previous experience must be comprehensively detailed, i.e. positions held and
dates). Applicants will submit certified copies of all qualifications and ID
document on the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). The Department reserves the right not to fill the post. All shortlisted
candidates for will be subjected to undertake a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job; the logistics will be communicated
to candidates prior to the interviews. Recommended candidates will also be
required to attend a generic managerial competency assessment after the
interviews also take a note that National School of Governance (NGS) has
introduce SMS pre-entry certificate with effect from 01 April 2020 as Minimum
Entry Requirements for Senior Management Services (submitted prior to
appointment) and can be accessed through the following link:
http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The
successful candidate must disclose to the Director-General particulars of all
registrable financial interests, sign a performance agreement and employment
contract with the Director-General within three months from the date of
assumption of duty. The successful candidate must be willing to sign an oath
of secrecy with the Department. Applicants will be expected to be available for
selection interviews and assessments at a time, date and place as determined
by the Department. An offer letter will only be issued to the successful
candidate once the following has been verified educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. Please
note: Correspondence will only be entered into with short-listed candidates.
OTHER POST
POST 43/143 : OFFICE ADMINISTRATOR GRADE III REF NO: DOT/HRM/2025/23
Branch: Rail Transport, Office of the Deputy Director General: Rail Transport
SALARY : R397 116 per annum, (all-inclusive salary)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A recognized NQF level 6 qualification in Office Management and Technology
/ Secretariat / Management Assistant / Public Management / Administration /
Business Management with 3 years’ experience in rendering support service
to senior management. Knowledge and Skills: (Competencies): Excellent
written and verbal abilities. Ability to communicate with all cultures at all levels.
Confidence, confidentiality and reliability is essential. Experience of Core and
Microsoft, to communicate computer-wise in any given situation. Successful
handling of documents and correspondents. Successful coordination of the
office.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will: Provide a support service to the Deputy Director-
General. Answer and record telephone / facsimile / e-mail activity on behalf of
the Deputy Director-General as well as soon as screen calls. Make
appointments and keep diary updated (inform Deputy Director-General of
appointments, ensure no overlaps occur, reschedule appointments when
necessary). Record and deal with queries from public and personnel in the
department. Keep message system updated / forward information as required.
116
Ensure issues needing the chief director’s attention are arranged in such a way
that the Deputy Director-General needs only the minimum time to deal with
them. Coordinate engagements across the branch to align to the Deputy
Director-General’s diary. Attend to documentation (Filing, update and disposal
thereof). Receive documentation, acknowledge receipt, apply file number /
allocation, record data into computer system, file appropriately. Perform
document tracking for all documentation (correspondence and memoranda)
Ensure safekeeping of all documentation in the office in line with relevant
policies. Ensure copies are made of every document that leaves the office for
signature by DDG/DG/Minister. Ensure / coordinate fast and efficient handling
of other documentation, meeting of deadlines for documentations (determine
priority and follow up). Perform general office administration. Send and receive
faxes, email receive and dispatch items and do photocopying. Obtain relevant
quotes and order supplies. Administer travel arrangements (Accommodation,
travel, venues arrangements etc.). Administer claims – all staff (S & T, cellular
phone, monthly vehicle, petty cash, ad hoc). Provide secretariat support (take
minutes and compile agendas) for the DDG meetings. Asist the manager to
ensure deadlines for PMDS, Annual Reports Strategic Plans and Audit reports
are compiled and handed in. Keep and maintain leave register of staff. Assist
in organizing meetings / workshops / seminars and conferences. Prepare for
meetings (arrange venues, refreshments, equipment, copy relevant literature).
Keep circulars, relevant policies update (HR Policies, Finance policies and
supply chain policies etc). Buy refreshment supplies for the office. Assist with
preparation of presentations for meetings / workshops / seminars /
conferences. Assist with exhibitions / displays at meetings / workshops /
seminars / conferences. Perform Chief User Clerk. Complete and sign VAS 2
forms. Order stationery, equipment and furniture for the office. Monitor office
orders. Make follow ups on orders. Office Administrator Grade III
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ngwako Makaepea Tel No: (012) 309 3366
117
ANNEXURE O
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/ Other related documentation such as copies
of qualifications, identity document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany
the application when applying for a post as such documentation must only be
produced by shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA
circular 19 of 2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or
occupational registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be
completed as these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or
disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No
late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
pertaining to Senior Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical and competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained
from the National School of government is required prior to the appointment.
Candidates will be required to complete a financial disclosure form and
undergo security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must
provide a police clearance certificate from country of origin (only when
shortlisted). The Department of Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity
employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of
the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment
Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of the Department will be
taken into consideration. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within three (3) months of this
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful.
Faxed applications will not be considered. The department reserves the right
not to fill these positions. Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged
to apply and preference will be given to the EE Targets.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 43/144 : DIRECTOR: BUSINESS MANAGEMENT REF NO: 051225/01
Branch: Infrastructure Management
Dir: Construction Management
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF Level 7 qualification in Business Management, Construction
Management, Engineering, Built Environment, or a closely related field. A
qualification that combines business studies with a built-environment discipline
will be an added advantage. Five (5) years of experience at a middle/senior
managerial level preferably within an infrastructure delivery environment,
construction management, or a business-unit operational context.
Demonstrable knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
Treasury Regulations, public-sector procurement frameworks, financial
management principles, and compliance requirements. Understanding of
programme and project management methodologies, risk management, and
performance management systems. Proven capability in strategic planning,
operational oversight, organisational development, problem solving,
stakeholder engagement, and leading multidisciplinary teams.
DUTIES : Lead the optimisation of the Construction Business Unit, ensuring the unit
functions as a fully-fledged internal contractor with sound operational systems,
financial discipline, and service standards. Oversee operational business
management, including the development and implementation of business
processes, service delivery models, financial monitoring tools, performance
dashboards, and efficiency improvement mechanisms. Coordinate
construction project risk management, including risk identification, mitigation
planning, monitoring and reporting across all construction sites. Ensure
effective management of Safety, Health, Environment, Risk, Security and
118
Quality (SHERSQ) standards across construction operations in line with
statutory requirements. Guide project development and technical coordination,
ensuring that construction inputs, technical documentation, planning
processes, and execution strategies align with departmental priorities. Lead
corporate support service functions for the Construction Unit, including HR
planning, skills development, contract administration, compliance processes,
governance support, and administrative systems. Develop and maintain
policies, SOPs and frameworks that support consistent delivery, accountability,
and standardisation across the Unit. Drive business sustainability, including
workload forecasting, cost recovery models, pricing of services, internal billing
systems, expenditure controls, productivity optimisation, and long-term
financial health of the unit. Identify and secure potential internal and external
construction opportunities, including client engagement, business
development activities, pipeline tracking, and improving the unit’s
competitiveness. Champion innovation and continuous improvement,
introducing digital tools, modern construction management systems, and best
practice methodologies to enhance efficiency and service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MM Maraka Tel No: (012) 336 7073
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
OTHER POSTS
POST 43/145 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CORPORATE COMMUNICATION REF NO: 051225/02
Branch: Corporate Support Services
CD: Corporate Communication
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA. Five (5) years of managerial
experience at (Assistant Director) level in a communications environment.
Knowledge in graphic design and multimedia production. Knowledge in public
administration. Knowledge of design principles, techniques and tools.
Knowledge of the writing process reviewing and proofreading. Proven
experience in the designing of Annual Reports, Annual Performance Plan,
other corporate publications and multimedia. Understanding of water sector
legislation. Knowledge of financial management and PFMA. Knowledge of
techniques and procedures for the planning and execution of operations.
Problem solving and analysis. People and diversity management. Client
orientation and customer focus. Good communication skills both (verbal and
written). Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Manage the department’s media and multimedia production initiatives. Develop
and implement media production plans. Develop and guide implementation of
annual graphic design and multimedia production deliverables. Analyse annual
departmental graphic design and multimedia production needs. Develop and
guide implementation of creative concepts and products for departmental
campaigns. Generic unit management outputs. Manage human resource
discipline within the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Mathebula Tel No: (012) 336 7387/8012
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 43/146 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MEDIA LIAISON REF NO: 051225/03
Branch: Corporate Support Services
CD: Corporate Communication
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA. Five (5) years of managerial
experience at (Assistant Director) level in a communications environment.
Disciplinary knowledge in communication and media studies. Knowledge of
media principles, techniques and tools. Experience of the writing process, copy
writing and proofreading. Knowledge of financial management and PFMA.
Knowledge of managing human capital. Knowledge of techniques and
procedures for the planning and execution of media operations. Understanding
of programme and project management. Problem solving and analysis. People
and diversity management. Client orientation and customer focus. Good
119
communication skills both (verbal and written). Accountability and ethical
conduct. Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines. An understanding
of and commitment to government objectives, policies and programmes.
DUTIES : Develop and manage the implementation of media plans in line with policies
and communication strategy of the department. Ensure media database
developed and updated regularly. Develop media products to profile work of
the department. Manage the implementation of the media plan to publicise the
work of the department. Coordinate media engagements, build strong media
relations, and produce timely, accurate content and quality assurance tools to
ensure consistent and effective departmental communication. Manage
departmental social media platforms and campaigns. Manage and monitor
regional communications.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Mathebula Tel No: (012) 336 7387/8012
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 43/147 : SENIOR HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER REF NO: 051225/04
Branch: Corporate Support Services
CD: Human Resource Management
Dir: Planning, Recruitment and Selection
(Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied must re-apply)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma at (NQF) level 6 in Human Resources Management or
relevant qualification with majors in Human Resource Management. Three (3)
to four (4) years’ experience in specialisation in Recruitment and Selection and
OSD appointment procedures. Experience in developing and managing data
tracking systems and reporting on progress of filling of posts. Knowledge and
experience in drafting reports and submissions. Knowledge and experience of
administrative, clerical procedures and systems. Knowledge and
understanding of Human Resource Management legislation, policies,
practices, procedures and Human Resource Planning. Knowledge of equal
opportunities and affirmative action guidelines and laws. Understanding of
socio-economic and development issues. Extensive exposure to OSD
recruitment processes, verifications and knowledge and understanding of the
OSD Framework. Problem solving and decision-making skills. Good
communication and presentation skills (written and verbal). Strong negotiation
and conflict management skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate Recruitment and Selection processes. Prepare detailed schedules
(long list), score sheets and applications from the Z83 application system.
Supply statistics regarding employment equity. Facilitate the shortlisting and
interview processes. Draft appointment submissions and route for approval.
Render a human resource advisory service to line managers on recruitment
and selection. Ensure that OSD appointments are done in compliance with the
OSD Framework. Ensure personal suitability checks. Ensure the promotion of
effective human resource management. Ensure that policies / legislations /
prescripts are followed and complied with during the recruitment and selection
process. Monitoring and evaluation of all HR processes, supervision, training
and motivation of staff. Co-ordinate and conduct investigations of human
resource related problems and advise management accordingly. Management
of Human Resources which include, staff and work allocation to subordinates.
Management of the recruitment and selection database.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Van Wyk Tel No: (012) 336 7147
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 43/148 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN PRODUCTION GRADE A-C (ENGINEERING
SERVICES) REF NO: 051225/05 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Head Office
Dir: Technical Engineering Support Services
SD: Drawing Services
SALARY : R391 671 – R586 665 per annum, (OSD), (Offer will be based on proven years
of experience)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
120
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Civil Engineering or relevant qualification. Three (3)
years post qualification technical engineering experience. A valid and
unexpired driver’s license. Compulsory registration with the Engineering
Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Engineering Technician (Civil stream).
Experience in technical design and analysis. Extensive computer-aided design
(CAD) and related engineering application experience. Excellent
communication skills (both written and verbal), good report writing and
presentation skills. Sound interpersonal skills as well as the ability to work in a
multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Provide technical services and support in a design drawing office environment.
Produce and edit civil engineering designs and drawings. Work independently
as well as in teams assisting engineers and technologists. Promote safety in
line with statutory and regulatory requirements. Ensure quality of technical
designs and drawings in line with standards and specifications. Compile and
submit reports as required. Provide guidance and mentorship for Graduate
trainees and candidate technicians. Continuous professional development to
keep up with new technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on
engineering technology to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant
bodies/council on engineering related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. D Johnson Tel No: (012) 336 8201
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online using the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
121
ANNEXURE P
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL
OFFICE OF THE PREMIER
The KwaZulu-Natal Office of the Premier (OTP) is an equal opportunity; affirmative action employer and it
is its intention to promote representivity in the Public Sector through the filling of this post. Persons
whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity are encouraged to apply, particularly
persons with disabilities and women interested in senior management positions. An indication of such,
in this regard will be vital in the processing of applications.
APPLICATIONS : NB: Kindly note that the Department provides for four methods of submitting a
job application, namely: Post, online e-Recruitment system, hand delivery and
email. Applicants are urged to choose/ utilise one of the methods provided
above. You may forward your application, quoting reference, addressed to: The
Acting Director-General, KwaZulu-Natal Office of the Premier, Private Bag
X9037, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or hand delivered to: The Acting Chief Director:
Corporate Services, Office of the Premier, 1st Floor, Invesco Centre, 16
Chatterton Road, Pietermaritzburg, 3201 and marked for the attention of the
Acting Director-General.
Another option is to submit application through email as a single scanned
document/ One PDF attachment to the email addresses specified for each
position. (Kindly note that the emailed applications and attachments should not
exceed 15mb). NB: It is the sole responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
their application reaches the Department on or before the set deadline.
CLOSING DATE : 12 December 2025 at 16h15 (Walk-in) 23h59 (online).
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the recent Z83 application form which came
into effect from 01 January 2021 as issued by the Minister of Public Service
Administration in line with regulation 10 of the Public Service Regulations, 2016
as amended, which is obtainable online from www.gov.za and
www.dpsa.gov.za. All sections of the Z83 must be completed (In full, accurately,
legibly, honestly, initialled, signed and dated), and accompanied by a
comprehensive/ detailed Curriculum Vitae only. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit the Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents will be required from shortlisted
candidates only on or before the day of the interview. The Curriculum Vitae
must have at least three (3) reference persons and their contacts. Failure to
provide accurate information on a job application as well as incomplete
information will result in a disqualification. Job applicants in possession of a
foreign qualification(s), must also provide an evaluation certificate obtainable
from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). If an invitation for an
interview is not received within three (3) months after the closing date, please
regard your application as unsuccessful. Requirements stated on the
advertised posts are minimum inherent requirements; therefore, criteria for
shortlisting will depend on the proficiency of the applications received.
Shortlisted candidates will be assessed through practical exercise and an oral
interview. Applicants must note that personnel suitability checks (PSC) will be
conducted on the short-listed applicants, therefore shortlisted applicants will be
required to give consent in terms of the POPI Act in order for the Department
to conduct this exercise. PSC includes security screening and vetting,
qualification verification, criminal records and financial records checks.
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as application received after the closing date will not be considered. If an
applicant wishes to withdraw an application, He/ She must do so in writing. It
is also important to note that the Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised post at any stage of the recruitment process. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 43/149 : DIRECTOR-GENERAL REF NO: 022022/11/2025
(5 years fixed-term contract)
SALARY : R2 352 642 per annum (Level 16), (all-inclusive package)
122
CENTRE : Head Office, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate postgraduate qualification (NQF level 8) in Public
Administration/Public Management / Social Sciences and/or Leadership, as
recognized by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) Minimum of
10 years experience at a senior management level. Computer Literacy. Pre-
Entry Certificate for SMS (Nyukela) submitted prior to appointment. A Valid
driver’s license. An appropriate NQF level 9 qualification will serve as an added
advantage. Plus the following key competencies: Knowledge of: Strong
strategic capabilities as well as leadership Extensive knowledge and
understanding of national and provincial legislation Sound knowledge and
understanding of government economic policies. Ability to engage leaders in
government, businesses and labour at high level. Experience in working with
organized labour and unions. Facilitation and organizing skills Good
negotiation skills. Experience in running a large organization as well as
interacting with senior officials/human resources within and outside the country.
Knowledge of Constitution of South Africa, Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Labour Relations act, Public Finance Management Act, Treasury
Regulations Knowledge, interpretation and Application of all Legislative
Framework/ Policies Project Management Skills Financial Management Skills
Strategic Management Skills and Planning Skills People Management and
empowerment skills Analytical, creative and innovative thinking skills.
DUTIES : Provide strategic direction and perform all functions and responsibilities
attached to the post of the Head of the Provincial Administration and Head of
Department for the Office of the Premier, in terms of the Public Service Act and
Public Service Regulations. Perform all functions as both Head of Department
and Accounting Officer of the Department of the Office of the Premier KwaZulu-
Natal, as stipulated in the Public Finance Management Act,1999, Treasury
Regulations and Public Service Act, 1994, as amended. Perform secretariat
duties to the Executive Council (Cabinet) of the KwaZulu-Natal Provincial
Government Provide the Premier with sufficient support, information and
advice to enable the Premier to execute his responsibilities and other
responsibilities as may be directed in line with the existing legislation
framework Lead and manage Premier’s key programmes, namely Stakeholder
Coordination, Institutional Development and Integrity Management, Provincial
Strategic Management, and Corporate Management Services. Provide
leadership, development and preparation of the strategic plan in line with the
key priorities of the province as well as to ensure that the performance and
operations of the Provincial Government and Office of the Premier are
coordinated effectively and efficiently Ensure the coordination of an effective
implementation of departmental policies, programmes and projects in line with
National, Provincial and Departmental priorities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N.Z. Chili Tel No: (033) 307 0846
APPLICATIONS : Email to recruitment@kznpremier.gov.za/www kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
NOTE : Females from all races, Indian, Coloured and White males are encouraged to
apply. Candidates will undergo a practical, technical exercise and integrity
assessments.
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application quoting the reference number of the post you are
applying for and the name of the publication in which you saw the
advertisement to The Director: Human Resource Management Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X9142, Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Alternatively,
applications can be delivered to 191 Prince Alfred Street, Pietermaritzburg.
Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applicants can submit their Z83 and
CV online. Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online
Application Centre’s (DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with
applying online or receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of
Designated Online Application Centers (DOACS) at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.”
FOR ATTENTION : Mrs ZJ Hlongwane
CLOSING DATE : 12 December 2025
NOTE : Directions To Candidates Note to applicants: The Provincial Administration of
KwaZulu-Natal is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer and Women
and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Applications must be
submitted individually on the prescribed new approved Z83 form, the form is
123
available from the website www.kznworks.gov.za or can be obtainable from any
Public Service department, and must be accompanied by a comprehensive
Curriculum Vitae (CV). Certified copies of supporting documents need not
accompany your application and CV, as these will be requested from shortlisted
candidates only. Faxed or electronic copies will not be considered. Candidates
are urged to view the guidelines available to all prospective candidates
applying for vacant position on the departmental website before completing
applications for posts. Direct your application quoting the reference number of
the post you are applying for and the name of the publication in which you saw
the advertisement to Candidates are also advised not to send their applications
through registered mail, as the Department will not take responsibility for non-
collection thereof. It is the applicants’ responsibility to have foreign
qualifications assessment for equivalent by the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA). Applications that do not comply with the above-mentioned
instructions will be disqualified. Please note that the Department reserves the
right not to fill the post. Recommended candidate’s personal information will be
subject to vetting prior to an offer of appointment being made. Candidates are
expected to be available on the date set for the interviews or they may be
disqualified. Should you not have been contacted by this office within 3 months
of the closing date of the advertisement, kindly consider your application being
unsuccessful. Please note that further communication shall be restricted to
those candidates who will have been shortlisted. The appointed candidate shall
be required to sign a performance agreement. Please note that reference
checks and/or confirmation of employment will be done with the current
employer and candidates are advised to include references from the current
employment to facilitate this. The filling of this post will be guided by the
Department’s Employment Equity targets. Please note that requests for higher
salaries will not be entertained for the advertised posts, however it may only
be considered for posts falling within the Occupational Specific Dispensation
(OSD) subject to the existing provisions. Candidates applying for advertised
posts in the Department, will be deemed to have granted consent to their
personal information being used to determine suitability in terms of the POPIA
Act, 4 of 2013.Please note that employment verifications shall be undertaken
for all experience which has been recognized for shortlisting purposes,
experience in the public service will need to be supported with a signed job
description and PERSAL service record history and experience from the
private sector needs to be supported by a certificate of service confirming the
name of company, position held, periods of employment and duties performed.
Experience that cannot be verified will result in the applicant being disqualified.
OTHER POST
POST 43/150 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BUDGET AND ACCOUNTING SERVICES REF NO:
DD/BAS/HO-112025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package) to be structured in
accordance with the rules for Middle Management Services (MMS)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in Financial Management at NQF level 7 with a
minimum of three (3) years relevant experience in management accounting at
junior management level (ASD). Computer literacy in the office software
packages namely Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook. A valid driver’s
licence.
DUTIES : Manage budget control services. Manage financial monitoring reporting.
Manage financial planning. Develop policies and strategies aimed at improving
service delivery. Manage resources of the Sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Orrie Tel No: (033) 355 5432
NOTE : NB: Recommended candidates will be subjected to a security clearance,
competency assessment and will also be required to disclose their financial
interests and will also be subjected to a technical assessment during the
selection process.
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT
The Provincial Administration of KwaZulu-Natal is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer
APPLICATIONS : Address: Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the KZN online
e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applicants may also
124
visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres (DOACs) where our
friendly staff will assist you with applying for jobs on the KZN online e-
Recruitment system or receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the
list of Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Please note that applicants should only use
one of the following methods when applying for a post: either through the online
e-Recruitment system or submit a hardcopy application as directed. Forward
your application, quoting the relevant reference number to: Recruitment &
Selection Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag
X9043, Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applications may alternatively be hand-
delivered to the Office of the Department of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima
Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street, Pietermaritzburg.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025 (at 16h00). Applications received after the closing date and
time will not be considered.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the NEW Application for Employment Form,
Z83 (obtainable on the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies). The Z83 form
must be completed in terms of DPSA circular 03 of 2025. The completed and
signed Z83 must be accompanied by a detailed CV. Dates of starting and
leaving employment must be given as DD/MM/YYYY. Kindly take note that only
shortlisted candidates will be required to provide certified copies of required
documents on or before the date of the interviews following communication
from Human Resources. Failure to comply with these instructions will lead to
applications being disqualified. Should an applicant wish to apply for more than
one post, separate applications must be submitted for each post applied for.
Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders must provide a copy of
their Permanent Residence Permits if shortlisted for an interview. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and to provide proof of such if
shortlisted for an interview. Under no circumstances will faxed or emailed
applications be accepted. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged due
to the volume of applications, and should you not receive an invitation to attend
an interview within three (3) months of the closing date applicants should
assume that their application was unsuccessful. Please note that where
experience is a requirement for the post, the successful candidate will be
required to submit documentary proof of such work experience prior to
assuming duty. A personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit
record checks, qualification verification and employment verification) will be
conducted prior to employment. Prior to appointment being made to an SMS
post, the appointee must have completed the pre-entry certificate and must be
in possession of such prior to taking up the post. The Senior Management Pre-
Entry Programme, which is a public service specific training programme
applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is to ensure that
potential SMS members have a background on processes and procedures
linked to the SMS (certificate is submitted prior to appointment). The duration
of the online Pre-Entry Programme is 120 notional hours. Full details may be
sourced by the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-
pre-entryprogramme/. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will
recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial competency
assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of
competency-based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing
generic managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS
competency assessment tools. It will be expected of candidates to be available
for selection interviews on a date, time and place as determined by the
Department. The Department of Transport reserves the right not to fill the
advertised post(s) at any stage of the recruitment process.
OTHER POSTS
POST 43/151 : CONTROL PROVINCIAL INSPECTOR REF NO: DOT 417/2025
Kindly note that this is a re-advertisement. Applicants who applied previously
and who still wish to be considered are at liberty to re-apply.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
125
CENTRE : Public Transport Enforcement Services
Public Transport Enforcement Unit: Mkondeni
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification (3 year Diploma/Degree in a Traffic /
Management / Law field – NQF 6 or higher); plus A Basic Traffic Officer’s / Law
Enforcement Diploma; plus Registered as a Traffic Officer / Peace Officer; plus
3-5 years’ management experience in a Traffic / Law Enforcement field; plus 7-
10 years’ working experience in a Traffic / Law Enforcement field; plus A valid
driving licence (minimum code B); plus No criminal record. Knowledge, Skills
and Competencies Required: Knowledge on how to manage the
implementation of Public Transport and Traffic Law Enforcement policies and
regulations. Knowledge of driver fitness inspections. Knowledge of vehicle
fitness inspections. Knowledge on the completion of Law Enforcement
documents. Knowledge of operator fitness inspections. Knowledge of
investigations. Working knowledge of applicable legislations – Public transport
and traffic environment. Records, resource and customer relationship
management skills. Performance, finance and conflict management skills.
Projects, time and self-management skills. Risk, change and public information
management skills. Planning, organising and people management skills.
Service delivery, communication and decision-making skills. Results and
quality management skills. Problem solving, report writing and workplace
relations skills. Conflict management, monitoring and evaluation and
management skills. Results/quality management skills. Innovation/continuous
improvement skills. Analytical, negotiation and innovative skills. Computer
literacy.
DUTIES : Provide effective and efficient leadership: Co-ordinate stakeholder relations
with other state departments and Law Enforcement Agencies (LEAs). Provide
strategic guidance and leadership to law enforcement officials. Evaluate the
activities of the Regional/District Operational plans to ensure strategic
alignment with the Strategic plan, budget statements and national and
provincial strategies: Co-ordinate the development of standardised operational
plans. Monitor and evaluate operational performance of the region to ensure
continuous alignment and development. Develop and maintain corrective
action on identified problem areas. Research and capture national and
international traffic law enforcement best practice. Promote a holistic integrated
management approach in terms of support and other functions. Create and
facilitate an enabling environment between provincial and local government in
respect of traffic law enforcement and ensure alignment across these spheres.
Co-ordinate the collection and analysis of regional law enforcement statistics,
conduct research, formulate policy and develop new strategies and models to
improve service delivery: Ensure that environmental analysis of each centre is
updated on an annual basis and reviewed on a quarterly basis. Develop a
monitoring mechanism to co-ordinate law enforcement operations and
statistics. Develop provincial policies in terms of operations, public transport,
legislation, equipment and prosecutions. Provide strategic leadership and
mentoring to regional/district role-players regarding strategies, developments
and trends. Manage and co-ordinate human resource processes in the
region/district. Manage and co-ordinate the budget process and utilisation of
facilities, vehicles and equipment of the region/district: Monitor the budget of
the region to prevent over/under spending on a monthly basis. Monitor the
procurement and utilisation of equipment of and services provided to the
centre. Ensure appropriate use of all facilities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S.Sithole Tel No: (033) 355 8826
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr C McDougall
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 43/152 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN GRADE A REF NO: DOT 418/2025
SALARY : R551 413 per annum, (level OSD)
CENTRE : Cost Centre, Pietermaritzburg
126
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Engineering (NQF level 6), plus 6 (Six) years post
qualification technical experience; plus Compulsory Registration with
Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineering
Technician; plus A valid driver’s licence (minimum code B). Knowledge, Skills
and Competencies Required: Knowledge of project management. Technical
design and analysis knowledge. Knowledge of research and development.
Knowledge of computer-aided engineering applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Knowledge of technical report writing. Knowledge of technical
consulting. Problem solving and analysis skills. Decision making skills.
Teamwork skills. Creativity skills. Financial management skills. Customer focus
and responsiveness skills. Communication skills. Computer skills. People
management skills. Planning and organizing skills. Change management skills.
The ideal candidate should be innovative, independent, time-frame driven,
meticulous, proactive and maintain confidentiality. He/she should also be
honest, have integrity, be reliable, patient, show commitment and
professionalism, perseverance and be punctual.
DUTIES : Manage technical services. Manage administrative and related functions.
Research and development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Madela Tel No: (033) 392 6600
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 43/153 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN PRODUCTION GRADE A-C (X29 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade A: R371 253 per annum, (OSD)
Grade B: R419 325 per annum, (OSD)
Grade C: R472 812 per annum, (OSD)
(Salary will be determined according to post registration experience as per
OSD prescripts)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzina Maphumulo House (X3 Posts):
Traffic Engineering & Geometric Design: Engineering Services Directorate Ref
No: DOT 419/2025 (X2 Posts)
Road Control: Engineering Services Ref No: DOT 420/2025 (X1 Post)
Empangeni Region (X18 Posts):
Material Testing: Cost Centre, Eshowe Ref No: DOT 421/2025 (X1 Post)
Road Control & Project Documentation: Cost Centre, Hluhluwe Ref No: DOT
422/2025 (X3 Posts)
Project Implementation (External): Cost Centre, Hluhluwe Ref No: DOT
423/2025 (X1 Post)
Material Testing: Cost Centre, Vryheid Ref No: DOT 424/2025 (X1 Post)
KZ265 Project Implementation (External): Area Office, Nongoma Ref No: DOT
425/2025 (X2 Posts)
KZ262 Project Implementation (External): Area Office, Pongola Ref No: DOT
426/2025 (X1 Post)
Material Testing: Cost Centre, Ulundi Ref No: DOT 427/2025 (X1 Post)
KZ273/274 & 275 Project Implementation (External): Cost Centre, Hluhluwe
Ref No: DOT 428/2025 (X1 Post)
Road / Pavement & Traffic Engineering: Regional Office, Empangeni Ref No:
DOT 429/2025 (X4 Posts)
Material Testing: Cost Centre, Hluhluwe Ref No: DOT 430/2025) (X2 Posts)
Pietermaritzburg Region (X5 Posts):
Project Implementation (External) (Umzimkhulu): Cost Centre, Ixopo Ref No:
DOT 431/2025 (X1 Post)
Road Control & Project Documentation: Cost Centre, Pietermaritzburg Ref No:
DOT 432/2025 (X2 Posts)
Material Testing: Cost Centre, Pietermaritzburg Ref No: DOT 433/2025 (X1
Post)
Material Testing: Cost Centre, Ixopo Ref No: DOT 434/2025 (X1 Post)
Ladysmith Region (X1 Post):
Material Testing: Cost Centre, Newcastle Ref No: DOT 435/2025 (X1 Post)
127
Durban Region (X2 Posts):
Road/ Pavement & Traffic Engineering: Regional Office, Durban Ref No: DOT
436/2025 (X1 Post)
Material Testing, Durban: Regional Office, Durban Ref No: DOT 437/2025 (X1
Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognised Bachelor’s Degree / National Diploma in Civil
Engineering; plus A minimum of 3 (three) years post qualification technical
experience in a roads environment (Experience: Grade A is 0 to12 years post
registration and Grade B is 14 years to 24 years post registration and Grade
C is 26 years and over); plus Compulsory registration with Engineering Council
of South Africa as a “Professional Engineering Technician”; plus A valid driver’s
licence (minimum code B). Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required:
Knowledge of Project Management. Knowledge of Technical design and
analysis. Knowledge of Research and Development. Knowledge of computer-
aided engineering applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Knowledge of
Technical report writing. Knowledge of Technical consulting. Problem solving
and analysis skills. Decision making skills. Team work skills. Creativity skills.
Customer focus and responsiveness skills. Communication skills. Computer
skills. People management skills. Planning and organizing skills. Change
management skills. The ideal candidate should be innovative, receptive to
suggestions and ideas, accurate, honest, have integrity and be open and
transparent. She/He must also be reliable, co-operative, courteous,
professional, have a positive attitude and be able to work in a team.
DUTIES : Render technical services. Perform administrative and related functions.
Research and Development. Supervise and control technical and related
personnel and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SM Ngcobo Tel No: (033) 355 8023
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these
positions.
POST 43/154 : SURVEY TECHNICIAN PRODUCTION GRADE A-C REF NO: DOT 438/2025
(X8 POSTS)
Road Declaration & Mapping Directorate
SALARY : Grade A: R371 253 per annum, (OSD)
Grade B: R419 325 per annum, (OSD)
Grade C: R472 325 per annum, (OSD)
(Salary will be determined according to post registration experience as per
OSD prescripts)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Survey or Cartography or relevant qualification; plus A
minimum of 3 (three) years post qualification technical experience.
(Experience: Grade A is 0 to 12 years post registration and Grade B is 14
years to 24 years post registration and Grade C is 26 years and over); plus
Compulsory registration with PLATO / SAGC as a Survey Technician; plus A
valid driver’s licence (minimum code B). Knowledge, Skills and Competencies
Required: Knowledge of programme and project management. Knowledge of
Survey design and analysis. Knowledge of research and development.
Knowledge of computer aided survey applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Knowledge of Technical report writing. Analytical skills. Decision
making skills. Teamwork skills. Analytical skills. Creativity skills. Self-
management skills. Financial Management skills. Customer focus and
responsive skills. Communication skills (verbal, written and networking).
Computer Literacy. Planning and organizing skills. Conflict management.
Problem solving skills. People management skills. Innovation skills.
DUTIES : Provide technical survey services and support. Perform administrative and
related functions. Research and development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Vosloo Tel No: (033) 355 8917
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
128
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X 9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these
positions.
POST 43/155 : GISC TECHNICIAN PRODUCTION GRADE A-C REF NO: DOT 439/2025
Road Declaration & Mapping Directorate
SALARY : Grade A: R371 253 per annum, (OSD)
Grade B: R419 325 per annum, (OSD)
Grade C: R472 325 per annum, (OSD)
(Salary will be determined according to post registration experience as per
OSD prescripts)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in GISc or Cartography or relevant qualification; plus A
minimum of 3 (three) years post qualification technical (GISc) experience
(Experience: Grade A is 0 to 12 years post registration and Grade B is 14
years to 24 years post registration and Grade C is 26 years and over); plus
Compulsory registration with SAGC as a GISc Technician; plus A valid driver’s
licence (minimum code B). Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required:
Knowledge and understanding of GIS applications and spatial data queries.
Knowledge of Theory, principles and practices of GIS Standards. Knowledge
and capabilities of different GIS software. Understanding of technologies such
as GPS, Photogrametry and Remote sensing. Knowledge of Projections.
Knowledge of principles of cartography. Problem solving and analytical skills.
Decision making skills. Teamwork skills. Creativity skills. Self-management
skills. Customer service skills. Excellent Communication skills (verbal, written
and networking). Interpersonal skills. Advanced computer skills. Planning,
organizing and execution skills. Language proficiency skills. Project
management skills. The ideal candidate should be innovative, receptive to
suggestions, accurate, honest and have integrity. He/She should be open
transparent, reliable, co-operative, courteous, professional, and have a
positive attitude and be able to work in a team.
DUTIES : Perform technical GISc activities. Maintain GISc unit effectiveness. People
Management. Functional requirement analysis. Perform Road declaration and
other related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SM Ngcobo Tel No: (033) 355 8023
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 43/156 : DESKTOP PUBLISHER REF NO: DOT 440/2025
Communications Support Directorate)
Kindly note that this is a re-advertisement. Applicants who applied previously
and who still wish to be considered are at liberty to re-apply.
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 6 in Graphic Design/Art and Design; plus 1 year experience in a
Graphic Design environment or related field; plus A valid driver’s licence
(minimum code B). Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required:
Knowledge of Apple Mac computers and software. Knowledge of Desktop
Publishing and Graphic Design. Knowledge of Microsoft package. Knowledge
of Protection of Personal Information Act. Knowledge of Corporate Identity and
Branding Guidelines. Knowledge of Advanced printing and publishing.
Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act and Treasury Regulations.
Knowledge of layout and typography. Knowledge of Digital Marketing, social
media, intranet and internet. Knowledge of Communication Policy and internet
129
communication. Knowledge of Branding guidelines/manual. Ability to
conceptualize from brief to final artwork. Communication skills (verbal and
written). Organising skills. Interpersonal relations skills. Report writing skills.
Problem solving skills. Computer literacy. Project management skills.
Inspection and analytical skills. Adobe creative suite skills (inDesign,
Photoshop, Illustrator, Microsoft word, etc.). The ideal candidate must be
honest, have integrity, commitment, and be professional. He/she should have
the ability to maintain confidentiality, be creative and innovative and be a team
player.
DUTIES Plan and design exhibitions for all Departmental and interdepartmental events
and functions. Prepare and develop graphic design items for the Department.
Develop and maintain the department’s brand identity. Provide advice and
technical support to regional offices and other departmental offices/facilities.
Conduct research on the latest developments in relation to graphic design and
branding.
ENQUIRIES : Mr H. Gunpath Tel No: (033) 355 0628
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 43/157 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PROTECTIVE AND EVENTS SECURITY REF
NO: DOT 441/2025
Security Services Directorate
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate / National Certificate (Vocational) NQF Level 4; plus A
minimum of 3 years’ experience in a Security Management Environment and
or Investigations; plus A valid driver’s licence (minimum Code B). Knowledge,
Skills and Competencies Required: Knowledge of the Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa. Knowledge of Minimum Information Security
Standards (MISS) document. Knowledge of Protection of Information Act.
Knowledge of SSA and SAPS Directives. Knowledge of Control of Access to
Public Premises and Vehicle Act. Knowledge of National Key Points Act.
Knowledge of Promotion of Access to Information Act. Knowledge of Minimum
Physical Security Standards (MPSS). Knowledge of National Strategic
Intelligence Act. Knowledge of Public Service Act and Regulations. Knowledge
of Public Finance Management Act. Knowledge of Administrative Justice Act.
Knowledge of Criminal Procedure Act. Knowledge of Occupational Health and
Safety Act. Knowledge of Departmental Security Policy. Knowledge of Private
Security Industrial Regulatory Act. Knowledge of Electronic Security Systems.
Knowledge of Control room operations. Planning and organizing skills.
Investigation skills. Interpersonal relations skills. Negotiating skills. Research
and data analysis skills. Report writing skills. Presentation skills and facilitation
skills. Supervisory skills. Diplomacy and Decision-making skills. Project
planning/ management skills. Conflict management skills. Computer skills. The
ideal candidate must be reliable, trustworthy and must be a person with
integrity. He/ She must also display ethical behaviour and time management.
DUTIES : Supervise control room operations, emergency plans and electronic security
system. Control Departmental keys. Control and maintain security registers.
Compile and submit system reports to the Assistant Director. Record and report
all security breaches.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Tibe Tel No: (033) 355 8088
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
130
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 43/158 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK (SUPERVISOR): ROAD SAFETY CAMPAIGNS &
ENFORCEMENT SUPPORT REF NO: DOT 442/2025
(Road Safety Directorate)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate / National Certificate (Vocational) NQF Level 4; plus A
minimum of three (3) years supervisory experience in the road safety
environment; plus A valid (minimum) code EB driver’s licence. Knowledge,
Skills and Competencies Required: Job knowledge. Working knowledge of
Hardcat, BAS and PERSAL. Communication skills. Interpersonal relation skills.
Flexibility. Teamwork. Computer literacy. Planning and organizing skills.
Language skills. Good verbal and written communication skills. The ideal
candidate should be trustworthy, loyal, friendly and courteous, responsible,
accurate, conscientious, diplomatic, integrity, self-disciplined, self-motivated,
professionalism, confidentiality, accuracy, innovative thinker, teamwork
orientated and able to work independently, interest in development, service
delivery excellence, compliance with performance agreements and
commitment to organizational goals.
DUTIES : Render general clerical supervisory services. Provide supply chain services
within the component. Provide personnel administration supervisory services
within the component. Provide financial administration support services in the
component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Hadebe Tel No: (033) 355 8782
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 43/159 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A-C (MECHANICAL) REF NO: DOT
443/2025 (X1 POST)
Mechanical, Structure Shop
Kindly note that this is a re-advertisement. Applicants who applied previously
and who still wish to be considered are at liberty to re-apply.
SALARY : Grade A: R243 597 per annum, (dependent on experience), (OSD)
Grade B: R285 816 per annum, (dependent on experience), (OSD)
Grade C: R332 061 per annum, (dependent on experience), (OSD)
(Salary will be determined according to post registration experience as per
OSD prescripts)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg Region
REQUIREMENTS : Grade A: (No experience required) Grade B: (At least 18 years’ experience)
Grade C (At least 34 years’ experience) An appropriate Trade Test Certificate
in a Building Related Field; plus A valid driver’s licence (minimum code C1).
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required: Technical analysis knowledge.
Technical Report writing knowledge. Knowledge of Computer Aided technical
applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Knowledge of production
process and skills. Knowledge of technical consulting. Problem solving and
analysis skills. Decision making skills. Teamwork skills. Creativity skills. Self –
management skills. Customer focus and responsiveness skills.
Communication skills. Computer skills. Planning and organizing skills. The
ideal candidate must be analytical, reliable, accurate, open, transparent,
innovative and have integrity.
DUTIES : Design: Produce designs according to client specifications and within limits of
production capability. Production: Produce objects with material and equipment
according to job specification and recognized standards. Quality assurance of
produced objects. Maintenance: Inspect equipment and plant for technical
faults. Repair equipment and facilities according to standards. Test repaired
equipment and plant against specifications. Service equipment and plant
131
according to schedule. Quality assure serviced and maintained equipment
and/or facilities. Perform administrative and related functions: Compile and
submit reports. Provide inputs to the operational plan. Keep and maintain job
record/register; and Supervise and mentor staff. Maintain and advance
expertise: Continuous individual development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on technical
/engineering technology to improve expertise.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Songca (Pietermaritzburg Region) Tel No: (033) 392 6600
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 43/160 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK (PRODUCTION): BENEFITS SECTION REF
NO: DOT 444/2025
Human Resource Administration Directorate
SALARY : R228 321 annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate / National Certificate (Vocational) NQF Level 4; plus A valid
driver’s licence (minimum Code B). Knowledge, Skills and Competencies
Required: Knowledge of Human Resource Management policies, procedures,
practices and prescripts. Knowledge of computer-based HR Information
systems e.g PERSAL. Knowledge and ability to keep and maintain acts,
regulations etc. Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, E-mail). Ability to
interpret and apply policy and regulations. Problem solving skills. Good
communication skills (both verbal and written). The ideal candidate must be
honest, reliable, innovative/creative and have the ability to work under
pressure. He/she should have the ability to work individually and as part of a
team and have the ability to maintain confidentiality, have good interpersonal
relations, be trustworthy, loyal, have a friendly disposition and be efficient and
responsible.
DUTIES : Provide general benefits services to head office staff. Administer all types of
Leave and Incapacity leave applications. Provide Administration support with
regard to Employee Performance Management and Development System for
the Head Office staff (Salary level 1-10). Process all rank and salary related
matters. Maintain database, ensure safekeeping of documents and filing of all
related documents for Head Office staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Mwelase Tel No: (033) 355 8742
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 43/161 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK (PRODUCTION): COMMUNITY OUTREACH
SERVICES REF NO: DOT 445/2025
Road Safety Directorate
SALARY : R228 321 annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate / National Certificate (Vocational) NQF Level 4. Knowledge,
Skills and Competencies Required: Job knowledge. Communication skills.
Good interpersonal relation skills. Flexibility. Teamwork. Computer literacy.
Planning and organizing skills. Language skills. Good verbal and written
communication skills. The ideal candidate should be trustworthy, loyal, friendly
and courteous, responsible, accurate, conscientious, diplomatic, integrity, self-
disciplined, self-motivated, professionalism, confidentiality, accuracy,
132
innovative thinker, teamwork orientated and able to work independently,
interest in development, service delivery excellence, compliance with
performance agreements and commitment to organizational goals.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component. Provide personnel administration clerical
support services within the component. Provide financial administration
support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Hadebe Tel No: (033) 355 8782
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 43/162 : SENIOR STORES CLERK REF NO: DOT 446/2025
SALARY : R228 321 annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Area Office, Nongoma
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate / National Certificate (Vocational) NQF Level 4. Knowledge,
Skills and Competencies Required: Knowledge of Assets and Inventory
control, procedures, processes and Practice Notes i.e. ordering, issuing stock
takes, reconciliation of stock. Knowledge of tenders/ contract procedures
pertaining to stores. Knowledge of procurement procedures and processes to
stores. Knowledge of Legislation, policies, procedures pertaining to the Public
Sector. Knowledge of departmental reporting and communication structures.
Knowledge of computerised stores systems in use by the by the Department
of Transport. Knowledge of Stores policies and procedures. Knowledge of
asset management and BOS procedures. Knowledge of losses/ thefts
procedures and Practice Notes. Knowledge of Safety Standards as per the
Occupational Health and Safety Act. Computer Literacy. Knowledge of general
administration procedures. Ability to interpret and apply legislation, policy,
Practice Notes and Contracts. Problem solving skills. Interpersonal skills.
Numeracy skills. Analytical and Innovative thinking skills. Planning and
organising skills. Good communication skills (verbal & written). Ability to leam,
understand and apply. Ability to perform in team. The ideal candidate should
be honest, loyal, reliable, accurate, open, transparent, punctual, comply with
the code of conduct, self- disciplined, responsible, accurate and be receptive
to ideas and suggestions. He/she should have good interpersonal relations, be
conscientious, dedicated committed to organisational objectives, projects/
programmes, be able to work in a team and/ or under pressure.
DUTIES : Receive and distribute store items and/or fuel. Procure store items for office
and ensure sufficient store holdings. Ensure effective record keeping of store
items and monthly stock takings. Dispose effectively of redundant, broken and
outdated stores. Attend audit queries and inspections.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NG Nxumalo Tel No: (035) 879 8120
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 43/163 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK (PRODUCTION) REF NO: DOT 447/2025 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Regional Office, Empangeni
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate / National Certificate (Vocational) NQF Level 4. Knowledge,
Skills and Competencies Required: Basic knowledge of Supply Chain duties,
practices as well as he ability to capture data and operate computer and
133
collecting statistics. Basic knowledge and understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service. Basic knowledge of work procedures
in terms of the working environment. Knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act. Knowledge of Asset Management. Knowledge of Loss
Control. Knowledge of HARDCAT. Knowledge of LOCO and BAS. Computer
Literacy. Computerised financial systems decision-making skills.
Communication skills (verbal and written). Interpersonal relations skills.
Listening skills. Numeric skills. Presentation skills. Problem solving skills.
Strong analytical skills. Time management skills. Word processing and
spreadsheet skills. The ideal candidate should have integrity, be honest,
reliable, innovative, creative, trustworthy, loyal, friendly, efficient and
responsible. He/she should have the ability work under pressure, maintain
confidentiality, work individually and part of a team.
DUTIES : Render asset management clerical support. Render demand and acquisition
clerical support. Render logistical support services. Provide SCM
Administration support in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms ZS Ngobese Tel No: (035) 787 1442
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these
positions.
POST 43/164 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK (PRODUCTION): STORES REF NO: DOT
448/2025
(Procurement & Provisioning)
SALARY : R228 321 annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Cost Centre, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate / National Certificate (Vocational) NQF Level 4, plus A valid
driver’s licence (minimum code B). Knowledge, Skills and Competencies
Required: Basic knowledge of stores duties, procurement procedures,
practices. Basic knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing Public Service. Basic knowledge of work procedures in terms of the
working environment. Ability to collect statistics and capture data. Computer
skills. Planning and organizing skills. Good verbal and written communication
skills. Ability to perform in a team. The ideal candidate should be committed to
organizational objectives/ projects and programmes, receptive to ideas and
suggestions, comply with Code of Conduct, punctual, accurate, honest,
responsible, loyal and conscientious. He/she should also be able to work in a
team, perform well under pressure and also be neat and tidy.
DUTIES : Control stock in the stores to ensure sufficient stock holdings in accordance
with computerized stores system and Practice Notes requirements. Ensure
effective stock record keeping. Dispose of redundant, broken, outdated stores
items. Control and maintaining of Zibambele and Vukuzakhe tools. Supervise
store assistant person.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Dlamini Tel No: (033) 392 6600
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 43/165 : TRADESMAN AID (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Ladysmith Region:
Cost Centre Dundee (X1 Post)
Mechanical Dundee Ref No: DOT 449/2025 (X1 Post)
134
Cost Centre, Estcourt (X2 Posts)
Mechanical (Bergville) Ref No: DOT 450/2025 (X2 Posts)
Empangeni Region:
Regional Office, Empangeni (X1 Post)
Ground Survey, Empangeni Ref No: DOT 451/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 / Junior Certificate; plus A minimum of 6 months trade related
experience. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required: Ability to use
electrical and hand tools. Good interpersonal, communication and
organizational skills. Ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Provide assistance in the maintenance of facilities, vehicles and equipment.
Arrange suitable tools and sort out parts for maintenance. Drain used oils from
components, refill with new oils and change all types of filters. Check vehicles
and equipment fluid levels for correctness and grease all greasing points.
Repair and replace worn or damaged wheels. Discard used oils, sawdust,
filters, rags, scrapped metals and tyres in the designated areas. Repair, clean,
service and safe keeping of equipment and tools according to standards under
supervision. Regularly clean and ensure tidiness of the workshop, vehicles,
equipment and tools. Ensure the safekeeping of, and report missing or
defective equipment and tools. Assist in the removal, stripping and assembling
of components of vehicles and equipment. Secure loose bolts, nuts, screws,
clamps, plugs and terminals. Report all hazards and potential hazards to the
supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Ntuli (Ladysmith Region) Tel No: (036) 638 4400
Ms BW Xaba (Empangeni Region) Tel No: (035) 787 1442
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these
positions.
135
ANNEXURE Q
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS, ROADS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
APPLICATIONS : Applicants should apply through the following website
htt://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za. The application on the eRecruitment system
should be accompanied by the new Z83 and recent comprehensive CV
(previous experience must be comprehensively detailed, i.e. positions held and
duration/dates) as well as copies of all qualifications, Identity Document and
valid driver’s license only. Failure to attach required documents will result in the
application not being considered/disqualified
Applications may also be hand delivered/posted to: Department of Public
Works, Roads and Infrastructure: Private Bag X9490, Polokwane, 0700 or
hand delivered at Works Tower Building, No. 43 Church Street, Polokwane,
0699.
For Capricorn District: Private Bag X9378, Polokwane, 0700 Or hand deliver
at 15 Landros Mare street, next to Correctional Services.
For Mopani District: Private Bag X576, Giyani, 0826 or hand deliver at 570
Parliamentary Building, Giyani.
For Sekhukhune District: Private Bag X02, Chuenespoort, 0745 or hand
deliver at Lebowakgomo Zone A, next to traffic department.
For Vhembe District: Private Bag X2248, Sibasa, 0970 or hand deliver at Cnr.
Traffic and Raluswielo Street, Sibasa.
For Waterberg District: Private Bag X1028, Modimolle, 0510 or hand deliver
at Cnr. Thabo Mbeki & Elias Motsoaledi Street.
CLOSING DATE : 12 December 2025 at 16h30
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly completed prescribed Z83 application
for employment form (2021 version) obtainable from any public service
department or can be downloaded from www.dpsa.gov.za. Applications must
be accompanied by a detailed CV. Applicants are not required to submit copies
of qualifications and other relevant documents on application except when
applying through the erecruitment system. All fields in Part A, Part C and Part
D of the Z83 form should be completed. In Part B, all fields should be completed
in full. Part E, F & G applicants often indicate “refer to CV or see attached”, this
is acceptable as long as the CV has been attached and provides the required
information. Applicants with foreign qualifications remain responsible for
ensuring that their qualifications are evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Successful incumbent will be expected to sign
a performance agreement within one month after assumption of duty. The
successful candidate will also be required to disclose his or her financial
interests in accordance with the prescribed regulations. Shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a competency–based assessment and a
technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job,
the logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. All shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a security clearance and verification of
qualifications. A pre-entry certificate obtained from National School of
Government (NSG) is required for all SMS posts. Proof of the completion of
the SMS pre-entry programme (Nyukela) must be submitted prior appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the
link:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme/. The
recommended candidate for appointment will be subjected to Personnel
Suitability Check for security reasons. Failure to comply with the above
requirements will result in the disqualification of the application. The
Department reserve the right not to make any appointment(s) to the posts
advertised. The employment decision shall be informed by the Employment
Equity Plan of the Department. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within three (3) months after the
closing date, please consider your application as being unsuccessful.
However, should there be any dissatisfaction, applicants are advised to seek
reasons for the above administration action in terms of Promotion of
Administrative Justice Act (PAJA), Act No. 3 of 2000. The department will not
carry any related costs (transport, accommodation or meals) for candidates
attending interviews. The Department of Public Works, Roads and
Infrastructure is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. Women
and people living with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
136
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 43/166 : DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE DELIVERY: OTHER PROVINCIAL
DEPARTMENTS REF NO: S.4/3/15/9
Component: Infrastructure Delivery: Other Provincial Departments
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (to be structured according to Individual
needs)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF level 7 qualification in
the Built environment as recognized by SAQA. Five (05) years of experience
at a middle / Senior managerial level. Registration with the relevant
professional council (i.e. SACPCMP, SACAP, ECSA or SACQSP) as
professional Construction Project Manager, Architect, Quantity Surveyor will be
an added advantage. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants
with disabilities. Knowledge and Skills: Sound and in-depth knowledge of
relevant prescripts, application of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service such as: Public Finance Management Act. Strategic Capability
and Leadership. Programme and Project Management, Financial
Management, Change Management, Treasury Notes, Labour, Promotion of
Access to Information Act. Public Service Regulations. Government
Immovable Assets Management Act (GIAMA). Technical Competencies:
Programme and project management. Engineering, legal and operational
compliance. Engineering operational communication. Process knowledge and
skills. Maintenance skills and knowledge. Mobile equipment and analysis
knowledge. Research and development. Computer- aided engineering
applications and MS software including power point· Creating high
performance culture. Technical consulting.
DUTIES : Manage the technical portfolio for Provincial Departments Infrastructure.
Manage the provision of professional inputs to the Provincial Departments in
terms of preparation of the User Asset Management Plan. Manage the review
of infrastructure project lists in terms of feasibility in consultation with Provincial
Departments and make recommendations. Manage the assessment of the
suitability of site allocations in terms of the provision of integrated multi-purpose
government services in the province. Manage the determination of lifecycle
costs for immovable assets of the Provincial Departments. Manage the
planning, design and budgeting for technical condition assessment for
Provincial Departments facilities in consultation with Provincial Departments.
Manage the procurement of construction projects: Provide the professional
inputs to the Provincial Departments in terms of the packaging of projects and
finalisation of the procurement strategy. Assist the Provincial Departments to
adhere to all requirements stated in the Division of Revenue Act [DoRA].
Manage the procurement of projects and framework contracts for the Provincial
Departments. Manage the preparation of project execution plans up to the point
of procurement. Manage the implementation of the construction procurement
for all projects on behalf of the other Provincial Departments. Monitor the
effective management of financial resources for projects. Manage delivery of
infrastructure programmes and projects: Provide the professional inputs to the
Provincial Departments in terms of the preparation of the Infrastructure
Programme Management Plan [IPMP]. Provide the professional inputs to the
Provincial Departments in terms of the packaging of projects and finalisation of
the procurement strategy. Develop IPIP and provide the professional inputs
and appropriate systems to the Provincial Departments to submit successful
infrastructure bids for the allocation of performance-based grants. Assist the
Provincial Departments to adhere to all requirements stated in the Division of
Revenue Act [DoRA]. Provide the professional inputs to the Provincial
Departments in terms of the determination of technical norms and standards.
[Mainly cost norms]. Manage the validation of building plans in terms of
National and Local Government Building Regulations. Manage the finalisation
of the Infrastructure Programme Implementation Plan [IPIP] for the Provincial
Departments. Manage the preparation and implementation of Service Delivery
Agreements. Manage the procurement of projects and framework contracts for
the Provincial Departments. Manage the preparation of project execution plans
up to the point of procurement. Manage the implementation of the construction
procurement for all projects on behalf of the Provincial Departments. Monitor
the effective management of financial resources for projects. Provide
137
maintenance for provincial departments infrastructure: Ensure updating of the
document management system and the project management system. Ensure
the adherence to timeframes, budgets and quality assurance standards for all
contracts: Report progress regarding implementation of infrastructure projects
to relevant government structures. Provide the inputs for the preparation of
financial and non – financial reports that should be submitted to the Provincial
Department of Health Maintenance strategy. Manage and monitor the
implementation of user-asset management plan. Manage maintenance
operations. Manage the infrastructure inputs for longer integrated infrastructure
planning and development: Participate in the development and updating of the
longer term integrated provincial infrastructure plan as referred to as the
Limpopo Master Infrastructure Plan. · Interact with municipalities and the public
Entities to promote delivery of services within the required timelines of the
Limpopo Master Infrastructure Plan and the Municipal Integrated Development
plans. Collaborate with other Chief Directorates in LDPWRI to consider the
possible packaging of infrastructure delivery projects across sectors for
seamless procurement. Participate in the review and updating of the Limpopo
Infrastructure Delivery Management System based on institutional changes
and areas identified for improvement. Manage and utilize resources (human,
financial & physical) in accordance with relevant directives and legislation. Give
direction to team in realising the Directorate’s strategic objectives. Develop
action plans to execute strategic initiatives. Ensure proper implementation of
the budget by monitoring, projecting & reporting expenditure. Monitor and
report on the utilisation of equipments. Co-ordinate memorandum of
understanding, service level agreements and expenditure review. Ensure that
the division is adequately staffed. Evaluate and monitor performance and
appraisal of employees. Ensure capacity and development of staff. Manage
discipline.
ENQUIRIES Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/7627,7262.
POST 43/167 : DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT REF NO: S.4/3/8/97
Component: Corporate Services
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (to be structured according to Individual
needs)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF level 7 qualification as
recognized by SAQA. Five (05) years of experience at a middle / Senior
managerial level in Strategic Management environment. Valid driver’s license,
with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge and Skills: Sound
and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service such as: Public Finance Management
Act. Treasury Notes. Promotion of Access to Information Act. Public Service
Regulations. Strategic Capability and Leadership. Programme and Project
Management, Financial Management, Change Management, Knowledge
Management. Service Delivery Innovation (SDI). Problem Solving and
Analysis. People Management and Empowerment. Client Orientation and
Customer Focus, Communication and Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of integrated planning and reporting services: Develop
and maintain strategic planning and reporting guidelines. Coordinate and
facilitate strategic and operational planning processes. Coordinate the
submission and analysis of quarterly reports, annual reports and budget vote
documents. Monitor and facilitate reporting on departmental programmes and
activities against government’s POA and Cluster projects and
intergovernmental working groups. Analyse organisational performance and
provide strategic inputs. Manage and conduct integrated monitoring and
evaluation services. Develop, manage and maintain M& E Frameworks and
system. Develop and implement monitoring and evaluation principes and
practices. Evaluate the implementation of departmental policies and assess
the impact and sustainability of programmes. Collect, store, analyze and
disseminate research and M&E information. Ensure the accuracy and integrity
of captured information. Ensure the accuracy and integrity of captured
information. Produce monthly, quarterly and annual performance reports.
Manage the implementation of service delivery programmes: Coordinate the
development and implementation of coherent service standards. Coordinate
the development and implementation of service delivery improvements plans.
138
Develop and provide customer care and complaints management strategy and
processes. Manage and resolve complaints from call centre, presidential
hotline, premiers office, communities chapter 10 institutions. Manage and
utilize resources (human, financial & physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation. Give direction to team in realising the Directorate’s
strategic objectives. Develop action plans to execute strategic initiatives.
Ensure proper implementation of the budget by monitoring, projecting &
reporting expenditure. Monitor and report on the utilisation of equipments. Co-
ordinate memorandum of understanding, service level agreements and
expenditure review. Ensure that the division is adequately staffed. Evaluate
and monitor performance and appraisal of employees. Ensure capacity and
development of staff Manage discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/7627,7262.
OTHER POSTS
POST 43/168 : CHIEF CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER: GRADE A REF NO:
S.4/3/1/70
Component: Building Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R1 266 450 per annum, OSD, (to be structured according to individual needs)
CENTRE : Mopani District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF level 7 as recognized by
SAQA in Built Environment with a minimum of 6 years’ experience as a
registered Professional Construction Project Manager with the SACPCMP,
Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities.
Technical Competencies: Programme and project management. Project
Management skills, principles and methodologies. Project and professional
judgement. Computer-aided engineering and project applications. Project
design and analysis knowledge. Project operational communication. Process
knowledge and skills. Maintenance skills and knowledge. Mobile equipment
operating skills. Legal and operational compliance. Research and
development. Creating high performance culture. Technical consulting.
Generic Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership, problem solving
and analysis, decision making, team leadership, creativity, financial
management, customer focus and responsiveness, communication, computer
skills, people management, planning and organizing, conflict management,
negotiation skills, change management.
DUTIES : Project design and analysis effectiveness: Perform final review and approvals
or audits on project designs according to design principles or theory. Co –
ordinate design efforts and integration across disciplines to ensure seamless
integration with current technology. Maintain project operational effectiveness:
Manage the execution of project management strategy through the provision
of appropriate structures, systems and resources. Set project standards,
specifications and service levels according to organizational objectives to
ensure optimum operational availability. Monitor project management
efficiencies according to organizational goals to direct or redirect project
services for the attainment of organizational objectives. Financial
Management: Ensure availability and management of funds to meet the MTEF
objectives within the project environment/ services. Manage the operational
capital project portfolio for the operation to ensure effective resourcing
according to organizational needs and objectives. Manage the commercial
added value of the discipline-related programmes and projects. Facilitate the
compilation of innovation proposals to ensure validity and adherence to
organizational principles. Allocate, monitor, control, expenditure according to
budget to ensure efficient cashflow management. Governance Allocate,
monitor and control resources. Compiles risk logs (database) and manages
significant risk according to sound risk management practice and
organisational requirements. Provide technical consulting services for the
operation of project related matters to minimise possible project risks. Manage
and implement knowledge sharing initiatives e.g. short – term assignments and
secondments within and across operations, in support of individual
development plans, operational requirements and return on investment.
Continuously monitor the exchange and protection of information between
operations and individuals to ensure effective knowledge management
according to departmental objectives. People management Direct the
139
development motivation and utilization of human resources for the discipline to
ensure competent knowledge base for the continued success of project
services according to organisational needs and requirements. Manage
subordinates’ key performance areas by setting and monitoring performance
standards and taking actions to correct deviations to achieve departmental
objectives.
ENQUIRIES : For Mopani district: Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811
4000/4070/4075
POST 43/169 : CHIEF ENGINEER GRADE A REF NO: S.4/3/15/3
Component: Provincial Maintenance Hub
Re-advert
SALARY : R1 266 450 per annum, OSD, (to be structured according to individual needs)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF Level 7 as recognize
by SAQA in B Engineering or B Sc in Engineering. Six years’ post qualification
experience required as a registered Professional Engineer. Compulsory
registration with the ECSA as a Professional Engineer. Valid driver’s license
with the exception of persons with disabilities. Generic Competencies:
Strategic capability and leadership. Problem solving and analysis. Decision
Making. Team Leadership. Creativity. Financial Management. Customer focus
and responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills. People management.
Planning and organizing. Conflict Management. Negotiation skills. Change
management. Technical Competencies: Programme and project management.
Engineering, legal and operational compliance. Engineering operational
communication. Process knowledge and skills. Maintenance skills and
knowledge. Mobile equipment and analysis knowledge. Engineering design
and analysis knowledge. Research and development. Computer- aided
engineering applications. Creating high performance culture. Technical
consulting. Engineering and professional judgement.
DUTIES : Engineering design and analysis effectiveness: Perform final review and
approvals or audits on new engineering designs according to design principles
or theory. Coordinate design efforts and integration across disciplines to ensure
seamless integration with current technology. Pioneering of new engineering
services and management methods. Maintain engineering operational
effectiveness. Manage the execution of management strategy through the
provision of appropriate structures, systems and resources. Set engineering
maintenance standards, specifications and service levels according to
organisational objectives to ensure optimum operational availability. Monitor
management efficiencies according to organisational goals to direct or redirect
engineering services for the attainment of organizational objectives. Financial
management: Ensure the availability and management of funds to meet the
MTEF objectives within the engineering environment/services. Manage the
operational capital project portfolio for the operation to ensure effective
resourcing according to organizational needs and objectives. Manage the
commercial value add of the discipline-related programmes and projects.
Facilitate the compilation of innovation proposals to ensure validity and
adherence to organisational principles. Allocate, control and monitor
expenditure according to budget to ensure efficient cash flow management.
Governance: Allocate, control, monitor and report on all resources. Compile
risk log and manages significant risk according to sound risk management
practice and organizational requirements. Provide technical consulting
services for the operation of engineering related matters to minimize possible
engineering risks. Manage and implement knowledge sharing initiatives e.g.
short-term assignments and secondments within and across operations, in
support of individual development plans, operational requirements and return
on investment. Continuously monitor the exchange and protection of
information between operations and individuals to ensure effective knowledge
management according to departmental objectives. People management:
Manage the development, motivation and utilisation of human resources for
the discipline to ensure competent knowledge base for the continued success
of engineering services according to organizational needs and requirements.
Manage subordinates’ key performance areas by setting and monitoring
performance standards and taking actions to correct deviations to achieve
departmental objectives.
140
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ and Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/7627,7262
POST 43/170 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL RATES AND TAXES REF NO: S.4/3/3/123
Component: Municipal Rates and Taxes
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (to be structured according to individual
needs)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric, National Diploma NQF 6 / NQF level 7 in Real Estate, Bsc
property studies and Degree in Property valuation as recognised by SAQA. 5
years’ experience in property management environment with a minimum of
three (3) years at Junior management/ASD level. Computer literacy. Valid
driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge
and Skills: Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts, regulations and
frameworks. Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis, development
and interpretation. Government Immovable Asset Management Act of 2007.
Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Management System. Provincial Land
Administration Act, 1998. Spatial Planning and Land Use Management Act,
2013. Property valuation. Strategic capability and leadership. Problem solving
and analysis. Decision making. Creativity. Financial management. Customer
focus and responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills. Planning and
organising.
DUTIES : Manage payments of rates and taxes. Develop, manage and implement
municipal services policy and processes. Develop strategies and plan for
payments of rates and taxes. Develop budget and financial projections for
payments of rates and taxes. Manage the verifications of tariffs approved by
the municipal council. Manage and monitor the inspection of properties to
ensure correct billing in relation to correct land use of properties. Manage,
facilitate and analyse submission of monthly and quarterly reports from the
district according to set target dates. Liaise with Land Management sub –
directorate on immovable assets registered in the name of the province.
Manage and monitor the application of MPRA Standard Procedures. Manage
and analyse the district reports. Provide and monitor the municipal services
reconciliation report. Liaise with district on identified incorrect information.
Manage and analyse the pattern for rates and taxes and identify areas for
investigation. Manage the compilation of municipal services expenditure
pattern reports. Coordinate the debt owed to municipalities by the province.
Manage payments of municipal levies: Develop and implement municipal
levies policy and processes. Develop strategies and plan for payments of
municipal levies. Develop budget and financial projections for payments of
municipal levies. Manage and liaise with districts for submission of invoices.
Manage the compilation of monthly municipal services report. Manage
valuation services. Develop and implement valuation policy and processes.
Develop strategies and plan for property valuations. Liaise with municipalities
to check the valuation roll. Manage compliance in terms of objection period of
the valuation rolls. Manage and conduct research and advice the department.
Manage the tariffs objection processes where necessary and ensure
adherence to time frames. Coordinate confirmation reports from municipalities:
Coordinate confirmation reports from municipalities on outstanding amounts at
the end of each financial year. Assist user departments in verifying their debts
with municipalities. Assist in the preparation of Annual Financial Statements.
Manage application for zoning certificate: Develop and implement processes
for application of zoning certificates. Manage and investigate the property in
terms of property rights (e.g. height, function, coverage and building lines).
Manage the compilation of report in term of restricted and relaxed rights of the
approved zoning certificate. Manage compliance with town planning scheme.
Manage and facilitate the application for relaxation of rights in the zoning
certificate. Manage and facilitate the application to change land use. Manage
and utilise resources (human, financial, & physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation. Report on the utilisation of equipment’s. Evaluate
and monitor performance and appraisal of subordinates. Provide capacity
development of subordinates. Enhance and maintain subordinates’ motivation
and cultivate a culture of performance management. Provide job description to
subordinates. Manage leave matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ and Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/7627,7262
141
POST 43/171 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROPERTY AND FACILITIES REF NO: S.4/3/3/103
Component: Property and Facilities Management
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (to be structured according to individual
needs)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District Office
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 06 in Real Estate. NQF level 07 in Property Studies
as recognised by SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience in property management
environment with a minimum of three (3) years at Junior management / ASD
level. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities.
Knowledge of: Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts, regulations and
frameworks. Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis, development
and interpretation. Government Immovable Asset Management Act of 2007.
Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Management System. Provincial Land
Administration Act, 1998. Spatial Planning and Land Use Management Act,
2013. Skills: Strategic capability and leadership. Problem solving and analysis.
Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity. Financial management.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills.
Facilitation. People management. Planning and organising. Conflict
management.
DUTIES : Manage land management matters: Facilitate land acquisition processes for
the district. Manage the identification, verification and gather documentation for
property to be acquired. Participate in the integrated development planning
process i.r.o. acquisition. Manage, maintain and update property assets
register. Manage and administer property systems. Manage and facilitate
vesting of district property and land. Manage and facilitate disposal of state
land. Manage and facilitate transfers. Manage leases and municipal services:
Manage and provide residential accommodation as required. Manage
residential accommodation register for leases and status. Manage and
facilitate the rental collection and schedules. Manage and facilitate matter
pertaining to refunds and arrears on rental recovery. Manage and facilitate
monthly submission of rates and taxes invoices according to stipulated due
dates. Manage monthly payment of municipal levies. Facilitate and analyse
leases, municipal rates and taxes. Manage property inspections and sub-
lettings. Compile the arrear accounts report including recovery projections.
Manage facilities services: Manage physical security services and monitor
adherence to service level agreement. Develop, manage and implement waste
management plan. Manage cleaning services. Manage landscaping services.
Manage resource (Human, Financial and Equipment): Manage the
component’s budget against its strategic objectives. Coordinate budget
monitoring, projecting & reporting expenditure. Ensure that spending is
maximized in line with strategic objective. Monitor and report on the utilisation
of equipment’s. Evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal of
employees. Ensure capacity and development of staff. Enhance and maintain
employee motivation and cultivate a culture of performance management.
Manage discipline. Provide job description to subordinates. Manage division
leave matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Ms Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636
8300/8330
POST 43/172 : CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER GRADE A REF NO: S.4/3/2/34
Component: Building Maintenance
Re-advert
SALARY : R879 342 per annum, OSD, (to be structured according to Individual needs)
CENTRE : Capricorn District – Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA in Built Environment, 04
years’ experience in Built Environment (04 years and 06 months experience),
or A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Built Environment
(04 years’ experience in Built Environment), or A qualification at NQF level 8
as recognised by SAQA in Built Environment, 03 years’ experience in Built
Environment. Compulsory registration with the SACPCMP as a Professional
Construction Project Manager. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of
applicants with disabilities. Core and Process Competencies: Strategic
Capability and Leadership; People Management and Empowerment;
Programme and Project Management; Financial Management; Change
142
Management; Knowledge Management; Service Delivery Innovation; Problem
solving and analysis; Client Orientation and Customer focus; Communication.
Skills: Programme and project management. Project management skills,
principles and methodologies. Project and professional judgement. Computer-
aided engineering and project applications. Project design and analysis
knowledge. Project operational communication. Process knowledge and skills.
Maintenance skills and knowledge. Mobile equipment operating skills. Legal
and operational compliance. Research and development. Creating high
performance culture Technical consulting. Strategic capability and leadership.
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity.
Financial management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
Computer skills. People management. Planning and organizing. Conflict
management. Negotiation skills. Change management.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate all aspects of projects under the supervision of the
Chief Construction Project Manager: Guide the project planning,
implementation, monitoring, reporting and evaluation in line with project
management methodology, Create and execute project work plans and revise
as appropriate to meet changing needs and requirements, Identify resources
needed and assign individual responsibilities, Manage day-to-day operational
aspects of a project and scope, Effectively apply methodology and enforce
project standards to minimize risk on projects. Project accounting and financial
management: Report project progress to Chief Construction Project Manager,
Manage project budget and resources. Office administration: Provide inputs to
other professionals with tender administration. Liaise and interact with service
providers, client departments, and management, Maintain the record
management system and the architectural library, Utilise allocated resources
effectively. Research and development: Keep up with new technologies and
procedures. Research/literature on new developments on project management
methodologies, Liaise with relevant bodies/ councils on project management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN, Mr Maleka KJ, Mabolola DP Tel No: (015) 287
5613/5610/5611/5612
POST 43/173 : CONTROL WORKS INSPECTOR REF NO: S.4/3/2/127
Component: Inspectorate Services
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Vhembe District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matric and a qualification at National Diploma (T/N/S streams) or
equivalent as recognised by SAQA, or N3 Certificate and a trade test certificate
in the building environment, or Registration as an Engineering Technician.
More than six (6) years appropriate experience. A valid driver’s license with the
exception of applicants with disabilities. Technical Competencies: Project
Management, Technical analysis, Computer Literacy, Technical report writing,
Production, process knowledge and skills, Problem solving and analysis.
Decision making, Team work, Customer focus and responsiveness, Planning
and organising. Generic Competencies: Problem solving and analysis.
Decision making, Team work. Creativity. Change Management Financial
Management Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication. Computer
skills.
DUTIES : Manage inspectorate: Manage the process for the identification of needs, new
services and requirements for minor new work and repairs to existing work by
ensuring that customer complaints are Facilitate, co-ordinate and control the
implementation of new work, repair and renovation and maintenance: Allocate
tasks and projects in relation to the maintenance of existing and new works.
Monitor the progress and expenditure on current maintenance and minor new
work projects. Attend monthly project progress meetings with relevant
stakeholders. Ensure that the works control system is updated provide reports
and estimates and recommend and monitor expenditure and payments.
Ensure accuracy of tender documents, specifications and bills of quantities.
Ensure that relevant project documentation for new and existing structures is
compiled: Develop and interpret plans and sketches. Draw – up quotation
documents and compile specifications, bills of quantities and bid documents.
Manage the activities of contractors and consultants: Provide advice and
guidance to contractors and consultants in respect of the compliance to
legislation and procedures. Put systems and procedures in place to ensure
contractors and consultants adhere to legislation, regulations and procedure.
Verify invoices and certify progress of payments. Check and progress variation
143
orders and make recommendations on requirements for the extension of
deadlines. Provide extended Public Works Programme: Gather and submit
information in terms of the extended Public Works Programme. Supervise the
performance and conduct of works inspectors through inter alia the following:
Identify skills development needs and provide training and development
opportunities for works inspectors. Provide advice and guidance on the
interpretation and application of legislation, policies and procedures. Ensure
quality control and efficient workflow of work done by works inspectors and
report on all work allocated.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms M Muthabi & Mr TI Tshipuke Tel No: (015) 963 3790.
POST 43/174 : CHIEF ARTISAN GRADE A (X2 POSTS)
Component: Building Maintenance
SALARY : R480 261 per annum, OSD
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District – Carpentry Services Ref No: S.4/3/2/86
Vhembe District – Malamulele Building Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/2/91
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in Carpentry. Ten years post qualification
experience as an Artisan/ Artisan Foreman. Valid driver’s license, with the
exception of applicants with disabilities. Technical Competencies: Project
Management, Technical Design and analysis, Computer aided technical
applications, Legal compliance, Technical report writing, technical Consulting,
Production, process knowledge and skills.
DUTIES : Manage Technical Services: Manage technical services and support in
conjunction with Technicians/Artisans and associates in field, workshop and
technical office activities. Ensure the promotion of safety in line with statutory
regulatory requirements. Provide inputs into existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology. Ensure
Quality assurance in line with specifications. Manage administrative and
related functions: Provide inputs in the budgeting process. Compile and submit
reports as required. Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical operational
plan. Update database. Manage artisans and related personnel and assets.
Financial Management: Control and monitor expenditure according to budget
to ensure efficient cash flow management. Manage the commercial value add
of the discipline related activities and services. People management: Manage
the development, motivation and utilization of human resources for the
discipline to ensure competent knowledge base for the continued success of
technical services according to organizational needs and requirement. Manage
subordinate: Key performance areas by setting and monitoring performance
standards and taking actions to correct deviations to achieve departmental
objectives. Maintain and advance expertise: Continuous individual
development to keep up with new technologies and procedures.
Research/literature studies on technical/ engineering technology to improve
expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on technical/engineering-related
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms M Muthabi & Mr TI Tshipuke Tel No: (015) 963 3790.
POST 45/175 : CHIEF ARTISAN GRADE A REF NO: S.4/3/10/120
Component: Drainage Structures
Re-advert
SALARY : R480 261 per annum, OSD
CENTRE : Sekhukhune district: Drainage Structures
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Ten years post qualification experience as
an Artisan/ Artisan Foreman in Shuttering / Steel Fixing / Concrete. Valid
driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Technical
Competencies: Project Management, Technical Design and analysis,
Computer aided technical applications, Legal compliance, Technical report
writing, technical Consulting, Production, process knowledge and skills.
Generic Competencies: Problem solving and analysis. Decision making.
Teamwork. Creativity. Change Management. Financial Management.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills.
Planning and organising.
DUTIES : Manage technical services: Manage technical services and support in
conjunction with Technicians/Artisans and associates in field, workshop and
technical office activities. Ensure the promotion of safety in line with statutory
and regulatory requirements. Provide inputs into existing technical manuals,
144
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology. Ensure
quality assurance in line with specifications. Manage administrative and related
functions: Provide inputs to budgeting process. Compile and submit reports as
required. Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical operational plan.
Update database. Manage artisans and related personnel and assets.
Financial Management: Control and monitor expenditure according to budget
to ensure efficient cash flow management. Manage the commercial value add
of the discipline related activities and services. People management: Manage
the development, motivation and utilization of human resource for the discipline
to ensure competent knowledge base for the continued success of technical
services according to organizational needs and requirement. Manage
subordinate: Key performance areas by setting and monitoring performance
standards and taking actions to correct deviations to achieve departmental
objectives. Maintain and advance expertise: Continuous individual
development to keep up with new technologies and procedures.
Research/literature studies on technical/ engineering technology to improve
expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on technical/engineering-related
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636
8300/8330
POST 43/176 : CHIEF ARTISAN GRADE A REF NO: S.4/3/2/109
Component: Nebo Building Maintenance
SALARY : R480 261 per annum, OSD
CENTRE : Sekhukhune district: Nebo
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in Plumbing/ Carpentry/ Bricklaying/
Electrical. Ten years post qualification experience as an Artisan/ Artisan
Foreman. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with
disabilities. Technical Competencies: Project Management, Technical Design
and analysis, Computer aided technical applications, Legal compliance,
Technical report writing, technical Consulting, Production, process knowledge
and skills. Generic Competencies: Problem solving and analysis. Decision
making. Teamwork. Creativity. Change Management. Financial Management.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills.
Planning and organising.
DUTIES : Manage Technical Services: Manage technical services and support in
conjunction with Technicians/Artisans and associates in field, workshop and
technical office activities. Ensure the promotion of safety in line with statutory
regulatory requirements. Provide inputs into existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology. Ensure
Quality assurance in line with specifications. Manage administrative and
related functions: Provide inputs to budgeting process. Compile and submit
reports as required. Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical operational
plan. Update database. Manage artisans and related personnel and assets.
Financial Management: Control and monitor expenditure according to budget
to ensure efficient cash flow management. Manage the commercial value add
of the discipline related activities and services. People management: Manage
the development, motivation and utilization of human resource for the discipline
to ensure competent knowledge base for the continued success of technical
services according to organizational needs and requirement. Manage
subordinate: Key performance areas by setting and monitoring performance
standards and taking actions to correct deviations to achieve departmental
objectives. Maintain and advance expertise: Continuous individual
development to keep up with new technologies and procedures.
Research/literature studies on technical/ engineering technology to improve
expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on technical/engineering-related
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636
8300/8330
POST 43/177 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RECORDS MANAGEMENT REF NO: S.4/3/8/17
Component: Records Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mopani District
145
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF level 06 as recognised
by SAQA in Records Management, Information
Management/Science/Studies/Archival Studies. Three (03) years’ of
experience at a supervisory position in Records Management environment.
Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities.
Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts, regulations
and frameworks, Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis,
development and interpretation, Strategic capability and leadership.
DUTIES : Supervise the provision of Human Resource records: Assist in the development
of file plan, manage security of records and monitor the classification and
reference of records, Manage filling of documents. Supervise the provision of
General records: Assist in the development of file plan, manage security of
records, Monitor the classification and reference of records. Manage filling of
documents. Supervise the provision of postal and messaging services:
Implement postal and messaging strategy and plans, monitor registering and
delivery of documents/ correspondence, Manage courier services, Manage
renewals of franking machine and mailbags. Facilitate and coordinate the
disposal of records: Identify the disposable records, Facilitate the approval
process to dispose identify records, Facilitate the evaluation process of identify
records, Transfer the valuable records to Provincial Archive repository, Dispose
the outdate records. Manage and utilise resources (human, financial, &
physical): Report on the utilisation of equipment’s, Evaluate and monitor
performance and appraisal of subordinates, Provide capacity development of
subordinates, Enhance and maintain subordinates motivation and cultivate a
culture of performance management, Provide job description to subordinates,
Manage leave matters.
ENQUIRIES : For Mopani district: Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811
4000/4070/4075.
POST 43/178 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ROADS PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION REF NO:
S4/3/10/179
Component: Roads Projects Implementation
Re-advert
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF Level 06 as recognized
by SAQA in Project Management/ Public Management/Community
Development Studies. Three (03) years’ relevant experience. A Valid driver’s
license with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Skills And Knowledge:
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity.
Financial management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
Computer skills. People management. Planning and organising. Conflict
management. Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts, regulations and
frameworks. Knowledge and understanding of Roads Maintenance Manual.
Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis, development and
interpretation. PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Strategic capability and
leadership.
DUTIES : Coordinate development of EPWP Business plan: Establish steering
committee of Local Municipal Councilor, Community Development Workers
and Transformation and ensure that this committee identifies EPWP projects
to be implanted. Select projects in term of priority and suitability in line with
EPWP. Manage the design and costing of EPWP projects. Ensure the setting
up of database of potential participants for EPWP project implementation.
Arrange the advertising of projects as well as the appointment of participants.
Facilitate compliance to EPWP Guidelines. Register all planned LIC projects in
the EPWP Reporting System. Ensure the signing of employment contracts by
participants. Ensure Basic Life Skills Training for all labourers. Registration of
participants/contractors with CETA. Monitor the performance of EPWP
projects. Ensure programming of the works and strict adherence to set dates
in line with the EPWP Business plan. Insist on setting of manageable daily task
for workers in with Ministerial. Determination for EPWP projects. Ensure strict
adherence to the carrying out of activities according to specifications. Ensure
performance of tasks is done under proper supervision to ensure quality
production and application of correct approved materials. Ensure similarity in
scope of work for all districts. Ensure the application of civil construction
industry guidelines, viz general conditions of contract 2000, SABS and EPWP
146
Ministerial Determination. Encourage registration of participants/contractor
with standards authorities such as CIDB. Ensure the establishment of code of
best practice for EPWP. Develop projects specification and contracts for
service providers. Ensure project design is per Labour Intensive Construction
Methods. Draw up specifications and terms of reference that will govern the
operations of the projects. Provide OHSA training for participants. Ensure that
consultants appointed have CETA Accreditation and are registered with
recognized bodies controlling civil construction industry,e.g. SAICE. Confirm
validity of contract documentation drawn up by consultants with departmental
legal directorate. Facilitate community participation in the projects with the
relevant directorate. Ensure good relations and closer cooperation between the
Roads Projects Implementation Directorate, Departmental District Offices,
Cost Centers and Local Authorities through Social Facilitation. Convene and
conduct EPWP workshops and seminars during project identification on
community participation. Compile an analysis of household status of projects
participants in line with EPWP targeted demographics i.e. %women, %youth
and %disabilities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/7627,7262.
POST 43/179 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT AND
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: S.4/3/8/100
Component: Performance Management and Development
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office – Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matric and a qualification at NQF Level 6 as recognised by SAQA in
Human Resource Management / Personnel Management/ Public Management
/ Administration. 3-5 years’ experience in human resource management
environment with a minimum of three (3) years at supervisory level. Valid
driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities. PERSAL
certificate/results to be attached. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of relevant
Public Service Acts, regulations and frameworks. Knowledge of Performance
Management Framework. Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis,
development and interpretation. Facilitation skills. Problem solving and
analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills. People management.
Planning and organising. Conflict management. Negotiation skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate performance management evaluation: Implement performance
management policies and procedures and ensure adherence to mandates and
directives. Conduct performance evaluation against operational plans of the
directorates and districts. Develop circulars and time – table for the submission
of annual evaluation forms. Monitor that circulars and time – table are available
and accessible. Monitor the updating of PMDS submission database. Monitor
issuing timeous PMDS submission statistics reports. Liaise with directorates
with regard to outstanding evaluation forms. Conduct quality assurance of
performance evaluation forms: Monitor that evaluation form are aligned to the
performance agreement. Conduct the process of quality assurance on the
performance evaluation forms. Monitor submission process and provide guide
on the evaluation process. Facilitate performance management evaluation
workshop. Conduct performance evaluation workshop at the district, head
office, institutions and cost centers. Distribute performance evaluation forms.
Coordinate performance management evaluation and capacity building:
Compile submission for appointment of performance management moderation
committee members. Provide logistics for moderation committee meeting.
Render secretariat for the moderating committee meetings. Implement
moderation committee recommendations. Facilitate performance bonus/
incentive appraisal and rewards: Compile performance evaluation schedules.
Approve performance bonus transaction on PERSAL system. Compile
performance bonus report. Issue feedback letter for satisfactory and
unsatisfactory performance. Facilitate probation processes. Liaise with HR on
recruited list. Liaise with officer on probation and supervisors to fill the quarterly
probation forms. Monitor capturing of probation forms on PERSAL system.
Facilitate submission to HOD for permanent appointments of officers. Compile
confirmation letter for completion of probation. Provide resource (Human,
Financial and Equipment): Monitor and report on the utilisation of equipment’s.
Evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal of employees. Ensure
147
capacity and development of staff. Enhance and maintain employee motivation
and cultivate a culture of performance management. Manage discipline.
Provide job description to subordinates. Manage division leave matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ and Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/7627,7262
POST 43/180 : GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGIST GRADE A REF NO:
S.4/3/10/65
Component: Roads & Bridges
SALARY : R453 576 per annum, OSD
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF Level 7 as recognize
by SAQA in Civil Engineering (Geotechnical or Materials). Three years’ post
qualification in Civil Engineering Technologist experience required.
Compulsory registration with ECSA as Civil Engineering Technologist. Valid
driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Technical
Competencies: Project Management. Technical designs and analysis
knowledge. Research and development. Computer-aided engineering
applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing.
Professional judgement. Networking. Generic Competencies: Decision
making, team leadership, analytical skills, creativity, self-management,
financial management, customer focus and responsiveness, communication,
computer literacy, planning and organizing, conflict management, problem
solving and analysis and people management.
DUTIES : Provide technological advisory services. Support Engineers, Technicians and
associates in field, workshop and office activities. Promote safety standards in
line with statutory and regulatory requirements; - 126 – Evaluate existing
technical manuals, standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new
technology. Solve broadly defined technological challenges through application
of proven techniques and procedures. Develop, maintain and manage current
technologies. Identify and optimize technical solutions by applying engineering
principles. Perform administrative and related functions. Compile and submit
monthly and quarterly reports. Provide inputs to the operational plan. Develop,
implement and maintain databases. Research and development. Keep up with
new technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on technical
engineering technology to improve expertise. To liaise with relevant
boards/councils on engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ and Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/ 7627,7262.
POST 43/181 : CHIEF WORKS INSPECTOR (X3 POSTS)
Component: Inspectorate Services.
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mopani District Ref No: S.4/3/2/110 (X1 Post)
Vhembe District Ref No: S.4/3/2/100 (X1 Post)
Waterberg District Ref No: S.4/3/2/100 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matric and a qualification at NQF level 6 (T/N/S streams) as
recognized by SAQA or N3 and a Trade Test Certificate in building
environment, or registration as and Engineering Technician. Minimum of three
(03) years of experience in inspectorate (Building) environment. A valid driver’s
license with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Technical
Competencies: Project Management. Technical analysis. Computer Literacy.
Technical report writing. Production, process knowledge and skills. Problem
solving and analysis. Decision making. Team work. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Planning and organizing. Generic Competencies: Problem
solving and analysis. Decision making. Team work. Creativity. Change
Management. Financial Management. Customer focus and responsiveness.
Communication. Computer skills. Planning and organising.
DUTIES : Identify needs and requirements of new work and repairs through the
investigation of customer complaints and new services. Prepare specifications
for unplanned maintenance and minor new work. Develop bill of quantities.
Develop proposals on the associated costs. Render an inspection service of
work done on new projects and existing structures. Inspect new and/or
maintenance work undertaken on project sites to ensure that it is being done
in compliance with all relevant regulations and legislation and that proper
148
quality control is maintained. Compile and estimate of repairs and costs for
minor new work and maintenance work to be undertaken. Develop, implement
and maintain an electronic record system for work being done and work that
was finalized. Develop progress reports on outstanding and finalized work.
Analyse and compile relevant project documentation for new and existing
structures. Develop and interpret plans and sketched. Draw – up quotation
documents and compile specifications, bills of quantities and bid documents.
Adjudicate and provide recommendations on quotations and bids. Liaise with
relevant stakeholders in respect of technical aspects. Manage the activities of
contractors on project sites. Advice and guide contractors in respect of the
compliance to legislation and procedures. Verify invoices and certify progress
of payments. Check and process variation orders and make recommendations
on requests for the extension of deadlines. Brief contractors and consultants
on projects and certify claims for fees. Ensure effective contract administration.
Facilitate and resolve problems emanating from projects and develop progress
reports on projects. Provide extended public works Programme. Gather and
submit information in terms of the extended Public Works Programme.
Supervise the performance and conduct of works Inspectors. Identify skills
development needs and provide training and development opportunities for
Works Inspector. Provide advice and guidance on the interpretation and
application of legislation, policies and procedures. Ensure quality control and
effective and efficient workflow of work done by works Inspectors and report on
all work allocated. Monitor proper utilization of equipment, stores and
expenditure. Administer the departmental performance management and
development system.
ENQUIRIES : For Mopani district: Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811
4000/4070/4075
For Vhembe district: Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms M Muthabi & Mr TI Tshipuke Tel No:
(015) 963 3790
For Waterberg: Ms MD Mokonyane, Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No:
(014) 718 3000/3040/3052/3027
POST 43/182 : ROAD WORK SUPERINTENDENT REF NO: S.4/3/10/194 (X1 POST)
Component: Letaba Roads Maintenance
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mopani District: Letaba Roads Maintenance
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matric and a qualification at NQF level 6 in Civil Engineering or
Construction Management as recognized by SAQA. Grade 12. Six (6) years
road work maintenance/Construction experience. Valid driver’s license, with
the exception of applicants with disabilities. Technical Competencies:
Knowledge of Artisan-related activities. Knowledge of relevant Acts and
regulations. Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis, development
and interpretation. Strategic capability and leadership. Problem solving and
analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity. Financial
management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
Computer skills. People management. Planning and organizing. Conflict
management.
DUTIES : Monitor the maintenance and repair of road surfaces on all surfaced roads such
as resurfacing interval, culvert/bridge replacement, line painting, replacement
of signs, grade and resurface gravel on loose top roads. Road surfaces
maintenance and repair reports. Develop maintenance schedules for assets
(roads, plant, equipment, etc.) Maintenance schedule plan. Plan and prepare
weekly/monthly site programme. Weekly/monthly site programme. Manage
contracted services, project management and final inspection for capital
projects. Monthly contract services performance report. Project management
and final inspection for capital projects report. Provide technical advice on
claims against the department. Sound technical advice. Monitor and check the
quality of work done by contractors/maintenance teams. Quality assurance
report for the work done by contractors/maintenance teams. Manage and
utilize resources (human, financial, & physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation. Performance Agreement and assessment report.
Updated job description. Updated assets register. Updated leave register. Work
attendance register.
ENQUIRIES : Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075. For
Sekhukhune district: Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel
No: (015) 636 8300/8330
149
POST 43/183 : INSPECTOR: MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS REF NO: S.4/3/10/31
Component: Roads Infrastructure Maintenance: Inspectorate
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mopani District
REQUIREMENTS : Trade Diploma. Grade 12. Three (3) years road work maintenance experience.
Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Skills &
Knowledge: Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts, regulations and
frameworks. Knowledge of Artisan related activities. Knowledge of machinery
and occupational safety act. Problem solving and analysis. Decision making.
Team leadership. Creativity. Financial management. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills. People management.
Planning and organising. Conflict management.
DUTIES : Inspect roads maintenance works to monitor compliance with
standards/specifications: Check and monitor compliance with standards and
specifications. Write reports on quality of the work. Identify gaps and give
advice accordingly. Provide expert advice to workers. Recommend actions to
be taken. Provide roads maintenance expertise to maintenance teams: Provide
work guidance. Identify training needs. Conduct skills audit. Facilitate training.
Conduct in-house training. Monitor progress on capital projects: Conduct
inspection of capital projects. Attend capital projects meetings. Provide reports.
Liaise with communities and RAL on the quality of roads maintenance: Attend
joint meetings with RAL and communities on the status of the quality of the
roads. Attend road maintenance queries. Provide written reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075.
POST 43/184 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A (X3 POSTS)
Component: Building Maintenance
SALARY : R382 047 per annum, OSD
CENTRE : Vhembe district:
Thohoyandou building maintenance-Electrical Ref No: S.4/3/2/113 (X2 Posts)
Capricorn District:
Mankweng building maintenance- Electrical Ref No: S.4/3/2/114 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District:
Nebo building maintenance-Welding Ref No: S.4/3/2/115 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Five years of post-qualification experience
as an Artisan. Valid driver’s license with the exception of people with
disabilities. Technical Competencies: Team leadership. Technical analysis.
Computer aided technical applications. Legal compliance. Technical report
writing. Production, process knowledge and skills. Generic Competencies:
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Team work. Creativity. Self-
Management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
Computer skills. Planning and organising. Conflict management.
DUTIES : Design: Supervise and produce designs according to client specifications and
within limits of production capability. Production: Produce objects with material
and equipment’s according to job specifications and recognised standards.
Quality assurance of produced objects. Maintenance: Inspect equipment
and/or facilities for technical faults. Repair equipment and facilities according
to standards. Test repair equipment and/or facilities against specifications.
Service equipment and/or facilities according to schedule. Quality assures
serviced and maintained equipment and/or facilities. Perform administrative
and related functions: Update register of maintained and repaired faults.
Provide Supply Chain Management with specification to obtain quotations and
purchase equipment and materials. Compile and submit reports as required.
Provide inputs to the operational plan. Ensure adherence to safety standards,
requirements and regulations. Human and capital resource management:
Supervise and mentor staff. Planning of resources. Scheduling work. Maintain
expertise: Continuous individual development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on
technical/engineering technology to improve expertise.
ENQUIRIES : For Capricorn: Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN, Mr Maleka KJ, Mabolola DP
Tel No: (015) 287 5613/5610/5611/5612.
For Waterberg: Ms MD Mokonyane, Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No:
(014) 718 3000/3040/3052/3027.
150
For Sekhukhune: Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No:
(015) 636 8300/8330.
For Vhembe: Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms M Muthabi & Mr TI Tshipuke Tel No: (015)
963 3790.
For Mopani: Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075
POST 43/185 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A REF NO: S.4/3/10/195
Component: Drainage Structures
SALARY : R382 047 per annum, OSD
CENTRE : Vhembe District
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Five years post qualification experience as
an Artisan. Valid driver’s license with the exception of people with disabilities.
Knowledge: Project Management. Technical design and analysis. Computer
aided technical applications. Legal compliance. Technical report writing.
Technical consulting. Production, process knowledge and skills. Problem
solving and analysis. Decision making. Team work. Creativity. Change
Management. Financial Management. Customer focus and responsiveness.
Communication. Computer skills. Planning and organizing. Technical
Competencies: Team leadership. Technical analysis. Computer aided technical
applications. Legal compliance. Technical report writing. Production, process
knowledge and skills. Generic Competencies: Problem solving and analysis.
Decision making. Team work. Creativity. Self-Management. Customer focus
and responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills. Planning and
organising. Conflict management.
DUTIES : Design: Supervise and produce designs according to client specification and
within limits of production capability. Production: Produce objects with material
and equipment’s according to job specification and recognised standards.
Quality assurance of produced objects. Maintenance: Inspect equipment
and/or facilities for technical faults. Repair equipment and facilities according
to standards. Test repair equipment and/or facilities against specifications.
Service equipment and/or facilities according to schedule. Quality assures
serviced and maintained equipment and/or facilities. Perform administrative
and related functions: Update register of maintained and repaired faults.
Provide Supply Chain Management with specification to obtain quotations and
purchase equipment and materials. Compile and submit reports as required.
Provide inputs to the operational plan. Ensure adherence to safety standards,
requirements and regulations. Human and capital resource management:
Supervise and mentor staff. Planning of resources. Scheduling of work.
Maintain expertise: Continuous individual development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on
technical/engineering technology to improve expertise.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms M Muthabi & Mr TI Tshipuke Tel No: (015) 963 3790
POST 43/186 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS
REF NO: S.4/3/8/68
Component: Employee Health and Wellness
(Re-advert)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 06 as recognized by SAQA. A qualification at NQF
level 06 in Health Sciences/ Administration as recognized by SAQA. 02 years’
experience in compensation and medical claims processing environment.
Computer literacy. Valid driver’s license with the exception of applicants with
disabilities. Skills & Knowledge: Problem solving and analysis, Confidentiality,
Creativity, Customer focus and responsiveness, Communication. Computer
skills, People management, Planning and organising. Conflict management,
Presentation and Report writing.
DUTIES : Coordinate Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases (COID)
programme in the Department: Collate the statistical information on
Occupational Injuries and Diseases (IOD) in the department. Manage proper
implementation of COID cases. Conduct audit on OID in the Department.
Record fatal and report critical OID cases to the Department of Labour. Ensure
that all notified IOD/occupationally acquired diseases cases are reported to the
Office of the Compensation Commissioner. Maintain COID data base and IOD
register for all cases in the department. Ensure payment of the Administration
151
fee to the Office of the Compensation Commissioner as prescribed by law.
Report all IOD/occupationally acquired diseases cases online with the
Department of Labour Systems. Payment of goods and services in line with
PFMA and Supply Chain Management framework, for both the Head Office and
the District offices. Liaise with employees and medical specialists/other service
providers regarding the submission of medical reports and bills. Verify and
prepare submissions for the payment of medical bills for OID/occupationally
acquired cases. Advice on the budget projection for COID/occupationally
acquired cases. Collect proof of payment of all medical bills and administration
fees and keep records thereof/ update commitment register. COID
Administration: Ensure that all notified cases are finalized with the Office of the
Compensation Commissioner. Ensure that outstanding documents of all
notified cases are followed up with the office of the Compensation
Commissioner, Provincial and National Treasury, Serviced providers, Family
members & etc. Liaise with employees and medical specialists/ other service
providers regarding the submission of medical reports and bills. Advise
employees on further management of cases once closed by the Department of
Labour. Administer awards as issued by Department of Labour. Support OHS
Assistant Director: Perform delegated task and give feedback. Support OHS
Assistant Director on the realization of sectional goals. Supervise OHS intern.
Manage leave for intern.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ and Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/7627,7262
POST 43/187 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER REF NO: S.4/3/8/91
Human Resource Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Vhembe District
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA in HRM /Public
Management / Public Administration/ Training / Development. 02 (Two) years
of experience within Human Resource environment. Valid driver’s license, with
the exception of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And Competencies:
Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts, regulations and frameworks.
Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis, development and
interpretation. Strategic capability and leadership. Knowledge of PERSAL will
be an added advantage. Skills: Problem solving and analysis. Decision making.
Team leadership. Creativity. Financial management. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills. People management.
Planning and organising. Conflict management.
DUTIES : Provide recruitment services: Receive applications from registry and keep
record thereof. Provide statistics of received application per post. Compile
scheduling of district posts. Provide the administration for district selection
services. Facilitate shortlisting and interviews in the district. Provide the
administration for district appointment services. Provide the administration of
conditions of services: Provide the administration for service termination due
to death/ resignation, retirement (normal and early retirement). Provide the
administration for employee benefits such as pensions, housing allowances,
medical aid scheme recognition of long service awards. Facilitate state
guarantees. Monitor attendance and leave registers. Facilitate PILIR. Conduct
district leave auditing. Provide the administration of post establishment and HR
system: Provide the administration for transfer and translation of personnel.
Effect the translation and transfer of personnel upon receipt of approval from
the HOD. Conduct district head count. Capture PERSAL transaction. Facilitate
and coordinate district human resource development services: Assist in the
development of district workplace skills plan. Liaise with head office on
schedule of courses to be attended. Provide the administration for the
learnerships and internships. Verify the compilation of performance
management and development system documentation. Render secretariat
services in performance management and development system moderation.
Conduct performance management and development system workshops.
Provide the administration for performance management and development
system rewards/incentives. Coordinate the employment relations services:
Liaise with head office on grievances and misconducts. Facilitate district labour
forums. Provide secretariat to the labour forums. Manage and utilise resources
(human, financial, & physical): Report on the utilisation of equipment’s.
Evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal of subordinates. Provide
152
capacity development of subordinates. Enhance and maintain subordinates
motivation and cultivate a culture of performance management. Provide job
description to subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms M Muthabi & Mr TI Tshipuke Tel No: (015) 963 3790.
POST 43/188 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: LEASE MANAGEMENT REF NO: S.4/3/3/82
Component: Lease Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA in Property Management,
Property Law, Real Estate and Property Valuation. 03-05 years’ experience in
property management. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants
with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of relevant Public Service
Acts, regulations and frameworks, Knowledge and understanding of policy
analysis, development and interpretation, Government Immovable Asset
Management Act of 2007, Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Management
System, Provincial Land Administration Act, 1998, Spatial Planning and Land
Use Management Act, 2013.
DUTIES : Administer leases: Facilitate the appointment of the landlord, Facilitate the
signing of service level agreement by the landlord and user department,
Administer lease contracts, Receive notices of non-compliance in terms of
maintenance from the user departments, Receive and record complaints with
regard to non-adherence to conditions in lease contracts, Analyse leases to
identify once that will expire in six month, Notify occupants about lapsing
leases, Update Asset Register on Leases. Renewals of leases: Facilitate the
extension of leases, communicate the outcome of lease extension and the new
terms if the service level agreement, Facilitate signing of revised service level
agreement, Update the lease Asset Register. Provide leases: Validate the need
of office space by user departments, Analyse needs using space norms and
standards, Conduct research and identify available office space/areas
according to the needs of user departments, Negotiate with prospective
landlords around the requested area. Provide lease agreements in respect of
unutilized state-owned properties rented out to private entities/institutions:
Facilitate the appointment of Values to determine market rentals, Facilitate the
signing of the lease agreements with the applicant, Monitor lease agreements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ and Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/7627,7262
POST 43/189 : PROPERTY INSPECTOR: LAND MANAGEMENT REF NO: S.4/3/3/124
Component: Properties and Facility Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mopani District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matric and a qualification at NQF 06 in Property Management/Real
Estate as recognised by SAQA. 2-3 Years’ experience in property
management/real estate. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants
with disabilities. Skills And Knowledge: Written communication, Ability to act
with tact and discretion, Good grooming and presentation, Investigation skills.
DUTIES : Inspect property for rental purposes: Conduct regular inspections, Verification
of provincial properties, Conduct property inspections before handing over to
occupants for rental purposes, Conduct inspection of physical condition of
properties on termination of rental, Compile the reports for the physical
conditions of residential properties. Monitor adherence to terms and conditions
of lease agreements during the rental period. Investigate property complaints
and compliance to lease agreements. Opening of job cards on behalf of
tenants. Conduct space audit (Residential): Provide office measurements.
Monitor adherence to space norms. Monitor adherence to OHS Act.
ENQUIRIES : Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075,
POST 43/190 : STATE ACCOUNTANT (X2 POSTS)
Component: Financial Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune district Ref No: S.4/3/9/43 (X1 Post)
Vhembe district Ref No: S.4/3/9/44 (X1 Post)
153
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matric and a qualification at NQF Level 6 in Financial Accounting,
Financial Management/ Administration/ Cost Accounting as recognized by
SAQA. 2-3 years’ experience in the finance environment. Valid driver’s license,
with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And
Competencies: Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts, regulations and
frameworks. Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis, development
and interpretation. Knowledge of Treasury Regulations, PFMA, DORA,
PPPFA. Knowledge of PERSAL & BAS systems will be an added advantage.
SKILLS: People management. Planning and organising. Conflict management.
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Creativity. Financial
management. Communication. Computer skills.
DUTIES : Process payments and accounts: Receive order from supply chain. Check for
delivering note and invoice. Compile payment voucher for EBT transfer.
Capture/ approve payment voucher on LOGIS. Receive EBT stubs. Link stubs
and invoices and dispatch copy of stubs to suppliers. File payment vouchers
according to system. Reconcile supplier statements against payments.
Negotiate with suppliers regarding payments. Compile monthly register for
fruitless and wasteful expenditure and submit to Head Office. Compile monthly
report for payments made after thirty (30) days. Capture EPWP stipends on
BAS. Provide salary: Check authenticity of documents to be capture on
PERSAL system. Capture PERSAL transactions such as allowances,
deductions, fringe benefits and IRP deductions. Provide PERSAL
administration in salary enquiries and reports. Monitor submission of taxpayers
IRP 3A to SARS. Identify and specify state liabilities on pension fund. Provide
revenue: Collection of Government money. Issue receipts manual or online
under correct allocation. Register receipts in cash book. Deposit money.
Balance receipts, cash book and deposit book. Verify bank money. Verify and
approve receipts in the BAS. Day-end receipts on BAS. Confirm deposits on
BAS. Monitor online receipts and deposits for reconciliation. Compile monthly
reports. Keep a register for reserve face value forms. Facilitate debt: Open debt
file for relevant employer. Complete BAS Debt take on and attached supporting
documents for submission to Head Office for implementation of debt on
suspense account. Receive advices from Head Office to implement DEBT ON
PERSAL in cases where the debtor is a government/department employee.
Liaise with Head Office in updating BAS records. Conceive reports from Head
Office in clearing of Debts. Close Debt files. Provide resource (Human,
Financial and Equipment): Monitor and report on the utilisation of equipment’s.
Evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal of employees. Ensure
capacity and development of staff. Enhance and maintain employee motivation
and cultivate a culture of performance management. Manage discipline.
Provide job description to subordinates. Manage division leave matters.
ENQUIRIES : For Sekhukhune: Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No:
(015) 636 8300/8330.
For Vhembe: Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms M Muthabi & Mr TI Tshipuke Tel No: (015)
963 3790
POST 43/191 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO: S.4/3/10/196
Component: Groblersdal Mechanical Workshop
SALARY : R230 898 per annum, OSD
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District - Groblersdal Mechanical Workshop
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate as Diesel Mechanic. Experience will be an
added advantage. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with
disabilities. Knowledge Of: Relevant Acts and regulations. Road maintenance
Manual. Health and safety measures. Technical Competencies: Technical
analysis. Computer aided technical applications, Legal compliance, Technical
report writing, Technical consulting, Production, process knowledge and skills.
Generic Competencies: Problem solving and analysis, Decision making, Team
work, Creativity, Self-Management, Customer focus and responsiveness,
Communication, Computer skills, Planning and organising.
DUTIES : Perform services and repairs to roads related plant and equipment: Repairs:
Receive job card. Stabilize machine or vehicle. Run the engine until warm. Turn
engine off. Drain oil into container. Re-install the drain plug. Remove filters (oil,
fuel & air filter). Examine filter debris. Install new filters. Refill oil and check for
leaks and level. Test drive. Service: Check the condition of working area for
safety. Determine problem existing. State problem in writing. Visual inspection
on machine/ vehicle (for further damage such as leaks boos bolts and cracks).
154
Fix the problem and re-test. Analyse the failure. List all possible causes. Run
test and record information. Eliminate and insolate. Provide mechanical
expertise: Carry out services as per service category and complete standards.
Doing visual and pre-checks inspection on plant before and after
service/repairs is carried out as well as the compiling of inspection sheet.
Making full report of the findings and completing of job cords after competing
any repair or service. Perform per-inspection for additional defects before
repairs: Dismantling. Lay-out. Check condition of warn out parts. Repair or
replace where necessary and assemble. Clean the object/part and test it.
Perform administrative and related functions: Provide inputs on the compilation
of technical reports. Keep and maintain job records and other registers.
Maintain and adhere to agreed development plan.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636
8300/8330
POST 43/192 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A (X8 POSTS)
Component: Building Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R243 597 per annum, OSD
CENTRE : Mopani:
Giyani Building Maintenance- Bricklaying Ref No: S.4/3/2/116 (X1 Post)
Plumber Ref No: S.4/3/2/117 (X1 Post)
Ba-Phalaborwa Electrical Ref No: S.4/3/2/118 (X1 Post)
Naphuno Building Maintenance – Carpentry Ref No: S.4/3/2/119 (X1 Post)
Waterberg District:
Modimolle Building Maintenance (Painter) Ref No: S.4/3/2/120 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District:
Tubatse Building Maintenance (Electrical) Ref No: S.4/3/2/121 (X1 Post)
Vhembe District:
Thohoyandou Building Maintenance (Plumber) Ref No: S.4/3/2/21
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of
applicants with disabilities. Skills & Knowledge: Technical analysis, Computer
aided technical applications, legal compliance, technical report writing,
Technical consulting. Production, Knowledge process and skills.
DUTIES : Design: Produce designs according to client specification and within limits of
production capability. Production: Produce objects with material and
equipment’s according to job specification and recognizes standards, Quality
assurance of produced objects. Maintenance: Inspect equipment and/or
facilities for technical faults, Repair equipment and facilities according to
standards, Test repair equipment and/or facilities against specification, Service
equipment and/or facilities according to schedule, quality assure serviced and
maintained equipment and or facilities. Perform administrative and related
functions: Compile and submit reports, Provide inputs on the compilation of
technical reports, Keep and maintain job record and other registers, Maintain
and adhere to agreed development plan, Supervise and mentor staff. Maintain
expertise: Continuous individual development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : For Mopani: Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075
For Waterberg: Ms MD Mokonyane, Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No:
(014) 718 3000/3040/3052/3027.
For Sekhukhune: Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No
015 636 8300/8330
For Mopani: Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075
For Vhembe: Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms M Muthabi & Mr TI Tshipuke Tel No: (015)
963 3790
POST 43/193 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: S.4/3/9/195 (X2 POSTS)
Component: Finance: Acquisition Management
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Vhembe district
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognized by SAQA. Valid driver’s license
with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills: Basic
knowledge of supply chain duties, practices as well as the ability to capture
data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Basic knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service. Basic
knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working environment. Generic
155
Competencies Job Knowledge Communication Interpersonal relations
Flexibility Teamwork. Technical Competencies Computer skills Planning and
organising Language Good verbal and written communication skill.
DUTIES : Provide the acquisition of goods and services: Render acquisition clerical
support. Request for quotation. Receive quotation. Place order. Issue purchase
order. Capture specification on the electronic purchasing system. Provide
supplier database: Update and maintain a supplier (including contractors)
database. Register suppliers on Logis or similar system. Provide bids: Issue
bids. Receive bids. Provide logistical support during the bid consideration and
contracts conclusion process. Compile draft documents as required. Provide
bids evaluation: Make arrangements for evaluation of bids and quotations.
Captured information for all bids and quotations. Customise changes on
standard evaluation criteria.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms M Muthabi & Mr TI Tshipuke Tel No: (015) 963 3790
POST 43/194 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X5 POSTS)
Component: Fetakgomo Tubatse Stores, Ba-Phalaborwa Stores &
Modimolle/Mookgopong Stores, Thohoyandou Stores, Colins Chabane Stores
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune district:
Fetakgomo Tubatse Stores Ref No: S.4 /3/9/196 (X1 Post)
Mopani district:
Ba-Phalaborwa Stores Ref No: S.4/3/9/197 (X1 Post)
Waterberg District:
Modimolle/Mookgopong Stores Ref No: S.4/3/9/198 (X1 Post)
Vhembe district:
Thohoyandou Ref No: S.4/3/9/191 (X1 Post)
Colins Chabane Ref No: S.4/3/9/193 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognized by SAQA. Valid driver’s license,
with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge Of: Basic
knowledge of supply chain duties, practices as well as the ability to capture
data, operate computer and collect statistics. Basic knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service. Basic
knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working environment. Generic
Competencies Job Knowledge Communication Interpersonal relations
Flexibility Teamwork. Technical Competencies Computer skills Planning and
organising Language Good verbal and written communication skill.
DUTIES : Place order: Receive request of goods from the end user. Receive stock from
the supplier: Verify stock received against the invoice. Sign off the invoice for
received goods. Update and maintain register of suppliers. Capture goods in
registers databases. Receive stock into the system. Capture the received stock
into the system. Verify and update the register in line with the system stock.
Issue goods to end users. Receive request of goods from the end user (LOGIS
FORM). Issue the stores on the system. Issue the stores to end user. Receive
issuing form back from the end-user. File the issuing form.
ENQUIRIES : For Sekhukhune: Ms Makalela RC, Ms Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel
No: (015) 636 8300/8330.
For Mopani: Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075
For Waterberg: Ms MD Mokonyane, Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No:
(014) 718 3000/3040/3052/3027.
POST 43/195 : SWITCHBOARD OPERATOR REF NO: S.4/3/8/101
Component: Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Vhembe District Office
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Core And Process
Competencies: People Management and Empowerment; Programme and
Project Management; Change Management; Knowledge Management;
Service Delivery Innovation; Problem solving and analysis; Client Orientation
and Customer focus; Communication. Skills And Knowledge: Machine
Operations. Working procedures in respect of working environment. Basic
Interpersonal relationship. Basic literacy. Organising.
DUTIES : Render switchboard services: Attend to incoming and outgoing telephone calls.
Transfer calls to relevant extensions. Provide clients with relevant information.
Take messages and convey to relevant staff. Keep record of all outgoing calls.
156
Print and issue telephone accounts. Maintain telephone database. Allocate pin
codes when authorised. Maintain switchboard system: Identify and report
telephone faults to the supervisor. Notify the staff if telephones are out of order.
Record maintenance of the switchboard. Bar and activate telephone
extensions when authorised.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms M Muthabi & Mr TI Tshipuke Tel No: (015) 963 3790.
POST 43/196 : DRIVER/OPERATOR (X6 POSTS)
Component: Routine Maintenance
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Capricorn District:
Dendron Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/192 (X1 Post)
Waterberg District:
Lephalale Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/199 (X1 Post)
George Masebe Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/200 (X1 Post)
Dwaalboom Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/201 (X1 Post)
Bela-Bela Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/202 (X1 Post)
Vaalwater Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/203 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 04 as recognized by SAQA. A valid driver’s license
Code EC and Operating Certificate. Seven (7) to twelve (12) months driving
experience. Skills And Knowledge: Knowledge of relevant Acts and
regulations· Operating roads machinery· Health and safety measures· Working
procedures in respect of roads environment. Decision making Creativity
Communication Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Perform activities in respect of operation through: Operating specialized
equipment. Load and offload goods/equipment’s. Inspection and maintenance
of equipment and report defects. Keep log sheets of vehicles and machineries.
Application of safety and precautionary measures. Cleaning and lubrication of
machinery and equipments. Grading of gravel roads. Regravelling / shoulder
maintenance. Render driving services. Perform activities in respect of
operation through inter alia the following: Transportation of work teams and
materials/equipments. Detect and repair minor civil problems on the vehicle
and take steps to have it repaired (checked level and condition of oil, fuel, tyres
and water). Inspection of the vehicles / equipments and report defects.
Complete vehicle log book, trip authorization for the vehicle.
ENQUIRIES : For Waterberg: Ms MD Mokonyane, Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No:
(014) 718 3000/3040/3052/3027.
For Capricorn: Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN, Mr Maleka KJ, Mabolola DP
Tel No: Tel 015 287 5613/5610/5611/5612
POST 43/197 : ROAD WORKER (X16 POSTS)
Component: Routine Maintenance
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Capricorn District:
Mothapo Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/204 (X1 Post)
Sandriver Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/205 (X1 Post)
Regravelling Ref No: S.4/3/10/206 (X2 Posts)
Skeiding Ref No: S.4/3/10/133 (X1 Post)
Mopani District:
Ba-Phalaborwa Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/207 (X2 Posts)
Sekhukhune District:
Veeplaas Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/193 (X1 Post)
Groblersdal Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/189 (X1 Post)
Nebo Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/191 (X1 Post)
Waterberg District:
Mookgophong Ref No: S.4/3/10/195 (X2 Posts) (Re-advert)
Roedtan Ref No: S.4/3/10/198 (X2 Posts) (Re-advert)
Alma Ref No: S.4/3/10/199 (X1 Post) (Re-advert)
Tolwe Ref No: S.4.3.10/172 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 04 as recognized by SAQA. Skills And Knowledge:
Relevant Acts and Regulations. Operating roads machinery. Health and safety
measures. Working procedures in respect of roads environment. Acts and
regulations. Decision making. Creativity. Communication. Planning and
organizing. Team player.
157
DUTIES : Perform routine activities in respect of road maintenance and construction
through: Construction of culvet and side drains, erect and maintain steel
guardrails and gabions, construction of road earth and layer works. Clean and
maintain roads, sidewalks and resting areas. Surfacing and pothole patching.
Road fencing and pipe laying. Setting of road markings and road studs. Install
road signs, distance markers and barricade the work area, crushing of road
material, bush clearing and grass cutting.
ENQUIRIES : For Capricorn: Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN and Ms K Kganakga Tel No:
(015) 287 5600.
For Mopani: Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075
For Sekhukhune: Ms Makalela RC, Ms Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel
No: (015) 636 8300/8330.
POST 43/198 : DRIVER (X2 POSTS)
Component: Tubatse & Nebo Building Maintenance
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District:
Tubatse Building Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/8/102 (X1 Post)
Nebo Building Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/148 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA. A valid driver’s license
with PDP. Seven (7) to twelve (12) months driving experience. Knowledge And
Skills: Procedures to operate the motor vehicle e.g. procedures to obtain trip
authorities, complete the logbooks, consumables and basic services.
Prescripts for the correct utilisation of the motor vehicle. Procedure to ensure
that the vehicle is maintained properly. Confidentiality Flexible Good
communication High standard of workmanship.
DUTIES : Core driver functions: Drive light and medium motor vehicles to transport
passengers and deliver other items (mail and documents). Perform routine
maintenance on the allocated vehicle and report defects timely. Complete all
the required and prescribed records and logs books with regard to the vehicle
and the goods handled.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636
8300/8330.
POST 43/199 : TRADESMAN AID (X4 POSTS)
Component: Mechanical Services
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Waterberg district:
Mokopane Mechanical Workshop Ref No: S.4/3/10/208 (X2 Posts)
Thabazimbi Mechanical Workshop Ref No: S.4/3/10/163 (X1 Post)
Mopani district:
Tzaneen Mechanical Workshop Ref No: S.4/3/10/164 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 04 as recognized by SAQA. Knowledge And Skills:
Cleaning equipment. Safety. Health and safety measures. Working procedures
in respect of working environment. Basic Numeracy. Basic Interpersonal
relationship. Basic literacy. Organising. Accuracy. Flexibility. Co-operative.
Team player.
DUTIES : Bring the working tools to the work area. Help with repairs. Clean grease in
working bays. Clean oil in the workshop. Wash the floor of the workshop. Wash
the vehicle after repairs. Check if all items e.g. jack, wheel spanner etc. Park
the vehicle. Help in the marking of vehicle to be auction.
ENQUIRIES : For Waterberg: Ms MD Mokonyane, Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No:
(014) 718 3000/3040/3052/3027.
For Mopani: Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075.
POST 43/200 : TRADESMAN AID (X7 POSTS)
Component: Building Maintenance
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District:
Thabamoopo Building Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/2/122 (X2 Posts)
Ephraim Mogale Building Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/2/123 (X1 Post)
Waterberg District:
Bela-Bela Building Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/2/124 (X2 Posts)
Mopani district:
158
Sekgosese Building Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/2/125 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 04 as recognized by SAQA. Skills And Knowledge:
Ability to use electrical and hand tools, good interpersonal communication and
organizational skills, an ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Provide assistant in maintenance of facilities and equipment: Conduct regular
building inspections. Attend to minor electrical, plumbing, plastering, and
carpentry problems. Report defects. Repair, clean service and safe keeping of
equipments and tools according to standard: Repair broken furniture and
equipment. Clean equipment and machinery after use. Report faults.
ENQUIRIES : For Sekhukhune: Ms Makalela RC, Ms Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel
No: (015)636 8300/8330.
For Waterberg: Ms MD Mokonyane, Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No:
(014) 718 3000/3040/3052/3027.
For Mopani: Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075.
POST 43/201 : GENERAL WORKER/STORES ASSISTANT
Component: Giyani Stores
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Mopani district:
Giyani Stores Ref No: S.4/3/9/199 (X1 Post)
Waterberg district:
Thabazimbi Stores Ref No: S.4/3/9/188 (X1 Post)
Vhembe district:
Thohoyandou Stores Ref No:S.4/3/9/192 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 3 as recognised by SAQA (Adult Education and Training (AET).
Knowledge And Skills: Cleaning equipment and safety. Health and safety
measures. Working procedures in respect of working environment. Basic
Numeracy. Basic Interpersonal relationship. Basic literacy. Organising.
DUTIES : Provide general assistant work: Off – load equipment’s and goods to the stores
during delivery. Load equipment’s or goods upon request. Deliver stores to
relevant offices. Clean stores and government vehicles: Clean government
vehicles. Clean relevant workstation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075
For Waterberg: Ms MD Mokonyane, Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No:
(014) 718 3000/3040/3052/3027
POST 43/202 : GROUNDSMAN (X2 POSTS)
Component: Facilities Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Mopani district:
Tzaneen Cost Centre Ref No: S.4/3/3/125 (X1 Post)
Vhembe District Office Ref No: S.4/3/126 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 3 as recognized by SAQA. Skills And Knowledge:
cleaning equipment. Safety. Health and safety measures. Working procedures
in respect of working environment. Basic numeracy. Basic interpersonal
relationship. Basic literacy. Organizing.
DUTIES : Maintain premises and surroundings: clean premises and surroundings. Empty
dirty bins. Maintain the Garden: Watering the garden. Prune and trim flowers
and trees. Mow the grass. Remove weeds and garden refuse. Apply
insecticides. Cultivate the soil for trees and flowers. Maintain gardening
equipment and tools: Detect and report malfunction of gardening equipment
and tools. Repair minor defects of gardening equipment and tools. Keep
gardening materials and equipment: Cleaning of machines and equipment
after use request gardening materials.
ENQUIRIES : For Mopani: Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075.
For Vhembe: Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms M Muthabi & Mr TI Tshipuke Tel No: (015)
963 3790.
For Vhembe: Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms M Muthabi & Mr TI Tshipuke Tel No: (015)
963 3790.
POST 43/203 : CLEANER (X3 POSTS)
Component: Facilities Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Waterberg district:
159
Bela-Bela Cost Centre Ref No: S.4/3/3/128 (X1 Post)
Mopani district office:
Facilities services Ref No: S.4/3/3/100
Ba-Phalaborwa Cost Centre Ref No: S.4/3/3/127
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 1(ABET) as recognized by SAQA. Core And
Process Competencies: Cleaning equipment. Safety. Health and safety
measures. Working procedures in respect of working environment. Basic
Numeracy. Basic Interpersonal relationship. Basic literacy.
Organising.Flexibility.co-operative. Team player.
DUTIES : Provide cleaning services: office corridors, elevators and boardrooms: Dusting
and waxing office furniture. Sweeping, scrubbing and waxing of floor.
Vacuuming and shampooing floors. Cleaning walls, windows and doors.
Emptying and cleaning of dirty bins. Collect and removing of waste papers.
Freshen the office areas. Provide cleaning services: kitchen and rest rooms
by: clean basins. Wash and keep stock of kitchen utensils. Provide cleaning
services in restrooms: Refill hand wash liquid soap. Re – place toilet papers,
hand towels and refreshers. Empty and wash waste bins. Keep and maintain
cleaning materials and equipment: Report broken cleaning machines and
equipment’s. Cleaning of machines. (microwares, vacuum cleaners etc.) and
equipment’s after use. Request cleaning materials.
ENQUIRIES : For Waterberg: Ms MD Mokonyane, Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No:
(014) 718 3000/3040/3052/3027.
For Mopani: Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075.
160
ANNEXURE R
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
reprensentativity in all levels of all occupational categories in the Department.
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building,
Room 29, couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum
Building, Kimberley Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed to
nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application register
when an application is hand delivered.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z83
obtainable from any Public Service Department or any Public Service
Administration website. The fully completed and signed Z83 should be
accompanied by a detailed/comprehensive Curriculum Vitae, indicating
positions held, dates and key performance responsibilities. Only short-listed
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of their qualifications and
relevant documents on or before the day of the interview proceedings following
communication from the Human Resource Management Recruitment and
Selection Unit. Failure to submit the requested documents or information will
result in your application not being considered. The employment decision shall
be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the
Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through
the filling of this post(s) with a candidate whose transfer / promotion /
appointment will promote representativity in line with the numerical targets as
contained in our Employment Equity Plan. If you have not been contacted
within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be
subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, qualification
verification and employment verification). Where applicable, candidates will be
subjected to a skills/knowledge test. The Department reserves the right not to
make any appointment(s) to the above post. The successful candidate will be
expected to sign a performance agreement. The Department of Health is an
equal opportunity affirmative action employer. The request for certified
documents will be limited to shortlisted candidates. The Human Resource
Administration of the Department will inform shortlisted candidate for a post to
submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview. Should an
applicant wish to apply for more than one post, separate applications must be
submitted for all posts.
OTHER POST
POST 43/204 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (MR1-5) REF NO: NCDOH 148/2025
(X3 POSTS)
SALARY : MR 1: R252 855per annum
MR 2: R292 596 per annum
MR 3: R324 579 per annum
MR 4: R388 392 per annum
MR 5: R464 634 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : LLB Degree any recognized legal qualification. Display knowledge and
understanding and drafting of legal documents. Understand and have
advanced knowledge of legal and research principles. Display and
understanding of case law relevant to the legal matter at hand and be guided
in presenting motivation or proposals on how the specific case should be
approached to obtain desirable/justifiable outcome. Knowledge of Litigation,
Advocacy, Legal research, Legal drafting, dispute resolution and cash flow
management. Skills in problem solving analysis, communication, honesty and
integrity, research and computer literacy. Experience: Grade 1: No previous
legal experience required. Grade 2: At least 1 (one) year appropriate legal
experience after post qualification. Grade 3: At least 2 (two) years appropriate
legal experience after post qualification. Grade 4: At least 8 (eight) years
appropriate legal experience after post qualification. Grade 5: At least 14
(fourteen) years appropriate legal experience after post qualification.
161
DUTIES : Conduct, analyse, interpret, advise and mentor juniors on research that will
provide information and case law relevant to the legal matter at hand. Present
on and advise and mentor juniors on motivation/proposals on how the specific
case should be approached to obtain a desirable/justifiable outcome/result.
Draft legal documents and advise on and ore mentor juniors on the drafting of
legal documents that provide clear motivation/justification for a particular
position pertaining to the case, also proposing the approach to be followed to
ensure success in this regard. Successfully conduct an interview in order to
determine the client’s goals and objectives. Advise the department on possible
courses of acting during the consultation process, in relation to legal
entitlements and client’s instructions. Document interview and all advice given
during legal consultation in writing and provide advice and guidance to lower
level production employees on advanced interview techniques to address more
sensitive or complicated issues as guide employees on the advice that should
be rendered to the client. Provide support on medico-legal services (litigation
and legal advisory services).
ENQUIRIES : Ms L. Japhta Tel No: (053) 8300 511
162
ANNEXURE S
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTH WEST
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be forwarded for attention: The Director-General, Office of
the Premier, Private Bag X129, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand delivered at the
Directorate of Human Resource Practices and Administration, Ground Floor,
Ga-rona Building or can be emailed to recruitment2@nwpg.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025, (Applications must have reached the Office by 16h30 pm
on the closing date, otherwise they will not be considered).
NOTE : In terms of the Departmental Equity Plan, females and persons with disabilities
will receive preference. The Office is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote gender and disability in the HoD
echelons through the filling of these posts. Candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote the aforementioned will receive
preference. The office reserves the right not to make an appointment to this
post. The Applicant must fully complete all fields on the New Amended Z83
Form (81/971431) as prescribed with effect from 01 January 2021, which must
be signed, initialled on every page. The new Z83 Form obtainable from any
Public Service Department or on the Department of Public Service and
Administration (DPSA) website link: http://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/
and must be accompanied by a recently updated and Comprehensive/Detailed
Curriculum Vitae with competencies and experience, including three (3) names
of contactable referees. Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents on application. The
communication from the HR department regarding the requirements for
certified documents will be limited to shortlisted candidates. Therefore only
shortlisted candidates for the post will be required to submit certified
documents on or before the day of the interview following communication from
HR. Failure to submit the requested documents will result in your application
not being considered. Shortlisted candidates for senior management posts will
be subjected to a technical assessment and the selected interviewed
candidates will be subjected to a two-day competency assessment. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into an employment contract and
a performance agreement. Successful candidate will be subjected to security
vetting. The candidate will have to disclose his/her financial interest. Please
note: It is a responsibility of a person in possession of a foreign qualification to
furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Applications with
incorrect information and/or those received after the closing date indicated
below will, as a rule, not be accepted. Due to the large number of applications
we envisage to receive, applications will not be acknowledged. If you do not
receive any response from us within 90 days of the closing date, please accept
that your application was unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not
to make any appointments to the advertised posts.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 43/205 : HEAD OF DEPARTMENT (HOD) REF NO: NWP/OOP/2025/79
(5-year Fixed-Term Contract)
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum (Level 15), (all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government
Employee’s Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured i.r.o.
the applicable rules) plus non-pensionable Head of Department’s allowance
equal to 10% of the all-inclusive remuneration package.
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate post-graduate qualification (NQF 8) as recognised by SAQA. A
minimum of ten (10) years’ experience at Senior Managerial Level. Applicants
who do not possess SMS Pre-Entry Certificate shall be considered for
shortlisting and interviews, but the successful candidate shall not be appointed
before successfully obtaining the certificate (SMS Pre-Entry/Programme)
offered by the National School of Government. Information can be accessed
via this link: https: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/. Core management competencies: Strategic capability and
leadership skills, Client orientation and customer focus, Financial
163
management, People management and empowerment, Communication,
Project and programme management, Change management, Knowledge
management and service delivery Problem solving and analysis, Knowledge
of MS Word, MS Excel and MS PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Provide effective, efficient management and administration in the Department.
Provide strategic direction and leadership for the department. Ensure effective
utilisation and training of staff. Maintain sound labour relations and discipline
of staff. Ensure proper use, care and maintenance of state assets and
resources. Render sound financial management in the department, including
serving as an Accounting Officer of the department. Implement all laws and
policies applicable to the department, any other function that may in law be
entrusted, assigned, or delegated to an Accounting Officer and or Head of
Department. Manage and Oversee Agricultural Regulatory and Technical
Services, Agricultural Development and Farmer Support Services and
Integrated Rural Development Services and Provide technical support on
Public Private Partnership projects. Liaise with and co-ordinate partnerships
with other government, non- governmental institutions and other partners.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Yvonne Modubu Tel No: (018) 389 5638
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be forwarded for attention: The Director-General, Office of
the Premier, Private Bag X129, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand delivered at the
Directorate of Human Resource Practices and Administration, Ground Floor,
Ga-rona Building or can be emailed to recruitment1@nwpg.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025, (Applications must have reached the Office by 16h30 pm
on the closing date, otherwise they will not be considered).
NOTE : In terms of the Departmental Equity Plan, females and persons with disabilities
will receive preference. The Office is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote gender and disability in the HoD
echelons through the filling of these posts. Candidates whose
transfer/promotion/ appointment will promote the aforementioned will receive
preference. The office reserves the right not to make an appointment to this
post. The Applicant must fully complete all fields on the New Amended Z83
Form (81/971431) as prescribed with effect from 01 January 2021, which must
be signed, initialled on every page. The new Z83 Form obtainable from any
Public Service Department or on the Department of Public Service and
Administration (DPSA) website link: http://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/
and must be accompanied by a recently updated and Comprehensive/Detailed
Curriculum Vitae with competencies and experience, including three (3) names
of contactable referees. Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents on application. The
communication from the HR department regarding the requirements for
certified documents will be limited to shortlisted candidates. Therefore only
shortlisted candidates for the post will be required to submit certified
documents on or before the day of the interview following communication from
HR. Failure to submit the requested documents will result in your application
not being considered. Shortlisted candidates for senior management posts will
be subjected to a technical assessment and the selected interviewed
candidates will be subjected to a two-day competency assessment. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into an employment contract and
a performance agreement. Successful candidate will be subjected to security
vetting. The candidate will have to disclose his/her financial interest. Please
note: It is a responsibility of a person in possession of a foreign qualification to
furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Applications with
incorrect information and/or those received after the closing date indicated
below will, as a rule, not be accepted. Due to the large number of applications
we envisage to receive, applications will not be acknowledged. If you do not
receive any response from us within 90 days of the closing date, please accept
that your application was unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not
to make any appointments to the advertised posts.
164
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 43/206 : SUPERINTENDENT GENERAL/ HEAD OF DEPARTMENT (HOD) REF NO:
NWP/OOP/2025/78
(5-year Fixed-Term Contract)
SALARY : R2 352 642 per annum (Level 16), (all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government
Employee’s Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured i.r.o.
the applicable rules) plus non-pensionable Head of Department’s allowance
equal to 10% of the all-inclusive remuneration package.
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate post-graduate qualification (NQF 8) as recognised by SAQA. A
minimum of ten (10) years’ experience at Senior Managerial Level. Applicants
who do not possess SMS Pre-Entry Certificate shall be considered for
shortlisting and interviews, but the successful candidate shall not be appointed
before successfully obtaining the certificate (SMS Pre-Entry/Programme)
offered by the National School of Government. Information can be accessed
via this link: https: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/. Core management competencies: Strategic capability and
leadership skills, Client orientation and customer focus, Financial
management, People management and empowerment, Communication,
Project and programme management, Change management, Knowledge
management and service delivery Problem solving and analysis, Knowledge
of MS Word, MS Excel and MS PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Provide effective, efficient management and administration in the Department.
Provide strategic direction and leadership for the department. Ensure effective
utilisation and training of staff. Maintain sound labour relations and discipline
of staff. Ensure proper use, care and maintenance of state assets and
resources. Render sound financial management in the department, including
serving as an Accounting Officer of the department. Implement all laws and
policies applicable to the department, any other function that may in law be
entrusted, assigned, or delegated to an Accounting Officer and or Head of
Department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Erik Sekgoro Tel No: (018) 391 4282
165
ANNEXURE T
PROVICIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
WESTERN CAPE EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (WCED)
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted by using the following URL
https://wcedonline.westerncape.gov.za/home/, via Google Chrome or Mozilla
Firefox.
CLOSING DATE : 12 December 2025
NOTE : The applicants are advised to read the foreword available on the WCED
website before applying for the post/s. Applications must be made via the
department’s on-line E-Recruitment system. The on-line system will
automatically generate a Curriculum Vitae, applicants are therefore required to
ensure that their profiles are fully completed. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. All applicants must
be SA Citizens/Permanent Residents or Non-SA Citizens with a valid work
permit. Applicants will be expected to be available for selection interviews and
competency assessments at a time, date and place as determined by Western
Cape Education Department (WCED). The Department reserves the right to
conduct pre-employment security screening and appointment is subject to
positive security clearance outcome. Applicants must declare any/pending
criminal, disciplinary or any other allegations or investigations against them.
Should this be uncovered post the interview the application will not be
considered for the post and in the unlikely event that the person has been
appointed such appointment will be terminated. If you have not been contacted
within 3 months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful.
OTHER POSTS
POST 43/207 : CHIEF ENGINEER: CIVIL REF NO: 313
Directorate: Physical Resource Planning & Property Management
SALARY : R1 266 450 per annum. Salary depending on years of experience after
registration as a professional with the professional body.
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Engineering; Registered as a Professional Engineer with ECSA (Civil
engineer); Six years’ experience post qualification; Valid Drivers’ Licence;
Computer literate. Job Summary: To provide civil engineering inputs and
guidance which include all aspects of innovative and complex engineering
applications for the development of infrastructure strategies, policies, systems,
norms, standards aligned to the Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Management
(IDMS). Knowledge: Relevant Experience: Six years post qualification and
relevant experience working on Infrastructure Projects from inception to
completion. Candidate must be able to work independently and within a team.
Need a good understanding of infrastructure planning and systems that can
contribute towards the timeous development of education infrastructure. Need
a good understanding of and experience in project management.
Understanding of the IDMS would be advantageous. Skills: Candidates must
have the ability to prepare reports and draft submissions. Develop strategies
and systems for the planning and implementation of education infrastructure.
Plan and manage the implementation of infrastructure projects. Project
management skills, critical thinking, cost benefit analysis and stakeholder
engagement skills would be beneficial.
DUTIES : Customise architectural functional and technical norms and standards for all
schools. Determine architectural policies, strategies, plans, procedures and
criteria for all infrastructure projects and programmes. Undertake master
planning and prepare project briefs, business cases, accommodation
schedules and operational narratives. Prepare and/or approve Packages /
Individual Project Briefs. Participate in the procurement of Professional Service
Providers and Contractors. Plan and monitor the implementation of
Programme / Project and budget. Manage the interface between end-user /
community structures and implementing agent(s). Make inputs to the User
Asset Management Plans and Project Lists Undertake research. Experience
166
at managing projects from inception, planning, implementation to close out
would be beneficial.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. G Coetzee Tel No: (021) 467 9261
POST 43/208 : ARCHITECT CHIEF GRADE A REF NO: 306 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Physical Resource Management
SALARY : R1 099 488 per annum. Salary depending on years of experience after
registration as a professional with SACAP as professional body.
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Architecture degree. Registration with the SACAP as a
Professional Architect. Six years of relevant experience post qualification. Valid
Driver's License. Computer literate. Additional Requirements: Relevant
experience: Six years post qualification and relevant experience in working on
infrastructure projects (both capital / new and maintenance / existing) from
inception to completion. Needs a good understanding of- and in project
management. Needs a good understanding of infrastructure planning and
contribute towards timeous development of education infrastructure.
Experience with institutional systems / processes. Candidate must be able to
operate independently and as part of a team. To manage the delivery of the
infrastructure-built environment programmes and projects in line with the
Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Management System (IDMS). Skills:
Planning and organizing, research and technical report-writing and programme
/ project management skills.
DUTIES : Prepare the construction procurement strategy and the Infrastructure
Programme Management Plan. Prepare and/or approve Packages/Individual
Project Briefs. Participate in the procurement of Professional Service Providers
and Contractors. Contribute to the review and acceptance of the Infrastructure
Programme Implementation Plan (IPIP). Monitor the implementation of
Programmes/Projects. Approve Project Stage reports and designs. Manage
the interface between the end-user/community structures and Implementing
Agent[s]. Manage people and budgets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L McGlenatendolf Tel No: (021) 467 2021
POST 43/209 : QUANTITY SURVEYOR CHIEF GRADE A REF NO: 308
Directorate: Infrastructure Delivery Management
SALARY : R1 099 488 per annum. Salary depending on years of experience after
registration as a professional with the professional body.
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : B Degree in Quantity Surveying. Be registered as a Professional Quantity
Surveyor with SACQSP (South African Council for the Quantity Surveying
Profession). Have six years relevant experience post qualification. Have a
current / valid Drivers License and be computer literate. Job Summary: To
assist in the management of the delivery of the education infrastructure built
environment programmes and projects in line with the Provincial Infrastructure
Delivery Management System (IDMS). Knowledge: Relevant experience: Six
years post qualification and relevant experience in working on infrastructure
projects (both capital / new and maintenance / existing) from inception to
completion. Needs a good understanding of- and in project management.
Needs a good understanding of infrastructure planning and contribute towards
timeous development of education infrastructure. Experience with institutional
systems / processes. Candidate must be able to operate independently and as
part of a team. Skills: Planning and organizing, research and technical report-
writing and Programme / project management skills. Experience in all financial
aspects of a projects from inception to close-out is required.
DUTIES : Coordinate and / or contribute to the preparation of the Construction
Procurement Strategy (CPS) and the Infrastructure Programme Management
Plan (IPMP). Coordinate and / or contribute to the preparation and / or approve
Packages / Individual Project Briefs inclusive of the determination of the
Control Budget. Participate in the preparation and / or assessment of the
procurement process related to Professional Service Providers (PS) and / or
contractors. Contribute to the review and acceptance of the Infrastructure
Programme Implementation Plan (IPIP). Management and / or monitoring of
the implementation of Programmes. Approve Project Stage reports & designs.
Manage the interface between the end-user / community structures and
Implementing Agent[s]. Manage people and budgets.
167
ENQUIRIES : Mr GP Niewoudt Tel No: (021) 467 2021
POST 43/210 : ENGINEER: CIVIL REF NO: 310
Directorate: Physical Resource Planning & Property Management
SALARY : R761 157 per annum. Salary depending on years of experience after
registration as a professional with the professional body.
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Engineering; Registered as a Professional Engineer with ECSA;
Three years’ experience post qualification; Valid Driver’s Licence; Computer
literate. Job Summary: Assist with the provision of civil engineering inputs and
guidance which include all aspects of innovative and complex engineering
applications for the development of infrastructure strategies, policies, systems,
norms, standards aligned to the Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Management
System (IDMS). Knowledge: Relevant experience: Three years post
qualification and relevant experience working on Infrastructure Projects from
inception to completion. Candidate must be able to work independently and
within a team. Need a good understanding of infrastructure planning and
systems that can contribute towards the timeous development of education
infrastructure. Need a good understanding of and experience in project
management. Skills: Candidates must have the ability to prepare reports and
draft submissions. Contribute towards the development of strategies and
systems for the planning and implementation of education infrastructure. Plan
and manage the implementation of infrastructure projects.
DUTIES : Assist to develop and maintain functional and technical norms and standards
from an engineering perspective. Perform condition assessments and
credibility of technical information. Adhere to environmental and occupational
health & safety aspects. Investigate proposals for innovative service delivery
mechanisms and undertake feasibility studies. Compile briefing documentation
and specifications from an engineering perspective. Assist to prepare the User
Asset Management Plan. Make inputs to the Construction Procurement
Strategy and the Infrastructure Programme Management Plan. Conduct post
project and post occupancy evaluations. Candidates must be able to undertake
research related to innovative and sustainable infrastructure development and
be able to plan and implement projects related to this.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. G Coetzee Tel No: (021) 467 9261
POST 43/211 : ENGINEER: ELECTRICAL REF NO: 312
Directorate: Physical Resource Planning & Property Management
SALARY : R761 157 per annum. Salary depending on years of experience after
registration as a professional with the professional body.
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Engineering; Registered as a Professional Engineer with ECSA;
Three years’ experience post qualification; Valid Driver’s Licence; Computer
literate. Job Summary: Assist with the provision of electrical engineering inputs
and guidance which include all aspects of innovative and complex engineering
applications for the development of infrastructure strategies, policies, systems,
norms, standards and signing off on electrical installations. Skills: Candidates
must have the ability to prepare reports and draft submissions. Contribute
towards the development of strategies and systems for the planning and
implementation of education infrastructure. Plan and manage the
implementation of infrastructure projects.
DUTIES : Develop and maintain technical and functional norms and standards from an
engineering perspective. Investigate proposals for innovative service delivery
mechanisms and undertake feasibility studies. Compile electrical briefing
documentation and specifications. Provide inputs to the determination of the
Construction Procurement Strategy, the User Asset Management Plan and the
Infrastructure Programme Management Plan. Investigate electrical
engineering installations and oversee commissioning of electrical engineering
installations. Candidates must be able to undertake research related to
innovative and sustainable infrastructure development and be able to plan and
implement projects related to this.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. G Coetzee Tel No: (021) 467 9261
168
POST 43/212 : ARCHITECT PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO: 307
Chief Directorate: Physical Resource Management
SALARY : R660 612 per annum. Salary depending on years of experience after
registration as a professional with the professional body.
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Architecture degree. Registration with the SACAP as a
Professional Architect. Three years of relevant experience post qualification.
Valid Driver’s License. Computer literate. Three years post qualification and
relevant experience in working on infrastructure projects (both capital / new
and maintenance / existing) from inception to completion. To manage the
planning of the education infrastructure-built environment and projects. Review
of designs for school building purposes, planning of infrastructure in a client
department, approve guidelines and technical specification, organizing,
research and report writing. Need understanding of- and experience in project
management and contracts. Project management skills and understanding of
the IDMS would be advantageous. Critical thinking, cost-benefits analysis and
stakeholder engagement skills would be beneficial.
DUTIES : Customise architectural functional and technical norms and standards for all
schools. Determine architectural policies, strategies, plans, procedures and
criteria for all infrastructure projects and programmes. Undertake master
planning and prepare project briefs, business cases, accommodation
schedules and operational narratives. Prepare and/or approve Packages /
Individual Project Briefs. Participate in the procurement of Professional Service
Providers and Contractors. Plan and monitor the implementation of
Programme / Project and budget. Manage the interface between end-user /
community structures and implementing agent(s). Make inputs to the User
Asset Management Plans and Project Lists Undertake research. Experience
at managing projects from inception, planning, implementation to close out
would be beneficial.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. GP Nieuwoudt Tel No: (021) 467 2052
POST 43/213 : QUANTITY SURVEYOR PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO: 309 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Physical Resource Planning & Property Management
SALARY : R660 612 per annum. Salary depending on years of experience after
registration as a professional with the professional body.
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : B Degree in Quantity Surveying. Registered as a Professional Quantity
Surveyor with SACQSP. 3 (three) years’ experience post qualification or
registered as a Candidate Quantity Surveyor with SACQSP and is willing to be
part of a developmental programme with condition that the Candidate must
register as a Professional within 3 (three) years. Valid Driver’s License.
Computer literacy. 3 (three) years’ post qualification relevant experience in
working on infrastructure projects (both capital / new and maintenance /
existing) from inception to completion. A good understanding of- and in project
management. A good understanding of infrastructure planning and its
contribution to the timeous development of education infrastructure.
Experience in institutional systems / processes. Candidate must be able to
operate both independently and as part of a team. Job Summary: To assist in
the management of the delivery of education infrastructure-built environment
programmes and projects in line with the Western Cape Infrastructure Delivery
Management System (WC-IDMS). Skills: Planning and organizing, research
and technical report-writing and programme/ project management skills. The
ability to interpret and apply approved design guidelines and technical
specification to design solutions.
DUTIES : Contribute to the preparation of the Construction Procurement Strategy (CPS)
and the Infrastructure Programme Management Plan (IPMP);Contribute to the
Preparation and/or approve Packages/ individual Project Briefs inclusive of the
determination of the Control Budget; Participate in the preparation and/or
assessment of the procurement process related to the appointment of
Professional Service Providers (PSPs) and/or contractors; Contribute to the
review and/or acceptance of the Infrastructure Programme Implementation
Plan (IPIP); Management and/or monitoring of the implementation of
Programmes and/or projects; Approval of Project Stage Reports (deliverables)
and designs; Manage the interface between the end-user and or community
169
and the Implementing Agent (IA). Experience in all financial aspects of a project
from inception to close-out is required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. GP Nieuwoudt Tel No: (021) 467 2052
POST 43/214 : GISC TECHNICIAN PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO: 311
Directorate: Physical Resource Planning & Property Management
SALARY : R660 612 per annum. Salary depending on years of experience after
registration as a professional with the professional body.
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in GIS or equivalent qualification; Registered as a
Professional GIS Technician with PLATO; Three years’ experience post
qualification; Valid Drivers’ Licence; Computer literate. Additional
Requirements: Preferable experience: Similar GIS work and responsibilities
within government; Candidate must be able to work independently and within
a team. Need good understanding of planning how GIS and data management
supports and contributes to good planning. Knowledge: Relevant experience:
Similar GIS work and responsibilities within government; Candidate must be
able to work independently and within a team. Need good understanding of
planning how GIS and data management supports and contributes to good
planning. Skills: Candidates must have the ability to: Prepare reports and draft
submissions; Compile and edit presentations and documents; Present
presentations and conduct training; Manage specific projects related to both
GIS and infrastructure planning; Candidates must have advance computer
skills, be able to manage large data sets, conduct data analysis and write-up
conclusions.
DUTIES : Candidates must perform technical GIS activities for infrastructure planning
through the utilisation of education information systems and the analysis of
spatial plans. Candidates must contribute to the design and management of
appropriate spatial databases for infrastructure planning in line with existing
education information systems. Candidates must assist with general data
management and be able to use GIS equipment, software, data and products
to develop maps and other end user products that can be used in reports and
presentations. Successful candidates must be able to provide GIS and data
management training to end users to support and improve Education
Infrastructure Planning. Candidates must be able to participate in regular
systems audits and the implementation of GIS standards. Candidates must
undertake research in various fields to assist with the planning and
implementation of education infrastructure projects. Candidates must be able
to plan and manage the implementation of infrastructure projects.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. GP Nieuwoudt Tel No: (021) 467 2052
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference.
OTHER POSTS
POST 43/215 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (PAEDIATRICS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs).
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Registration with the Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Paediatrics. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as
170
Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees) as
Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to travel within the District and Metro Region. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to comprehensively manage all paediatric cases
including child protection cases and intensive management of tertiary level
patients. Proven leadership abilities. Experience in supervision of staff and
students. Experience and effectively management of allocated resources.
Proven experience in teamwork. Proven knowledge/skills and experience in
principles of service planning, organizing, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation. Proven ability to adhere to all departmental requirements and
protocols. Proven knowledge of public health and public health policies,
guidelines and related prescript to manage resources effectively. Research
experience as a primary investigator. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provide comprehensive, high-quality ambulatory, emergency, child protection
and general paediatrics clinical services. Clinical leadership and governance
of daily clinical operations of a multidisciplinary child protection team and a
general paediatrics team in a tertiary setting. Provide outreach and support to
referrers and referring institutions, as required. Conduct ward rounds/
multidisciplinary clinical meetings. Manage and effectively/efficiently use
allocated resources. Effective and efficient administration of clinical services.
Teaching (formal and informal) of undergraduate & post graduate students.
Create a learning environment for students and junior colleagues both under-
and postgraduate as required. Clinical & Corporate Governance of General
Paediatrics both inpatients and outpatients Administration of HECTIS patient
management system and other WCG health applications. Supervision of junior
medical staff to ensure quality of care and good clinical outcomes. Do
appropriate clinical audits and research within the department to stay abreast
of clinical developments. Participation in existing and conducting new research
projects within the department and stay abreast of clinical developments.
ENQUIRIES : Prof H Buys Tel No: (021) 685-5169/ or Email: Heloise.Buys@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be required to complete a practical test. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Red Cross Hospital for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/216 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (ORTHOPAEDICS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Orthopaedics. Registration with the professional council:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as Medical
Specialist in Orthopaedics. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Orthopaedics. Grade 2: A minimum of 5
years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the
171
HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a
foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Orthopaedics. Grade 3:
A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in
Orthopaedics. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver's license.
Commuted overtime is compulsory. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
render high quality surgery for Tertiary Trauma and Emergency Orthopaedics.
Ability to initiate own research projects and supervise research projects. Ability
to render high quality teaching and training in general orthopaedics to
registrars, medical officers, interns and medical students. Ability to run multiple
portfolios as an effective “Business Unit Model”. Strong ethical principles and
relevant clinical and counselling skills. Computer literacy. Leadership-,
interpersonal- and organisational skills to run a very busy trauma firm. High
level of competencies in the field of Tertiary trauma and emergency
Orthopaedics.
DUTIES : Provision of clinical service delivery at specialist level across the full spectrum
of trauma and emergency orthopaedic surgery. The specialist will spend
daytime working hours at Tygerberg Hospital with outreach responsibilities at
Karl Bremer Hospital and will be running one of the TBH orthopaedic trauma
firms. Provision of clinical service delivery at specialist level across the full
spectrum of fracture arthroplasty surgery and after hour on call duties for
trauma and emergency orthopaedics. Supervision of clinical and operative
activities of orthopaedic surgeons- in- training. Active participation in the
postgraduate and undergraduate teaching programmes of the Department at
Tygerberg Hospital and Karl Bremer Hospital. Effective management and
administration of a wide range of “Portfolios”, example the emergency unit.
Develop, conduct and supervise research projects pertinent to tertiary and
secondary orthopaedic surgery and health lines.
ENQUIRIES : Prof. J du Toit Tel No: (021) 938-9266
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration as
Medical Specialist in Orthopaedics with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/217 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (SURGERY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs).
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in General Surgery. Registration with the professional
council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in General
Surgery. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist in General Surgery. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
(or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign
qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in General Surgery. Grade 3: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of foreign qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in General
Surgery. Inherent requirements of the job: Commuted overtime contract is
compulsory, as well as ability to work flexible and after-hours. Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s license, as well as willingness and ability to travel. Competencies
172
(knowledge/skills): Expertise in evidence-based surgical practice and patient
safety principles despite the ever-changing healthcare landscape and its
impact on a limited resource environment. Strong clinical decision-making,
leadership and teaching abilities. Commitment to teamwork, ethical practice,
and continuous professional development. Competence in clinical governance,
audit, and quality improvement processes – proof of at least a local publication
strongly encouraged. Effective interpersonal, organizational, and problem-
solving skills. Computer Skills: Proficiency in MS Office and clinical platforms
(ECM, NHLS, HECTIS, PACS). Communication: Excellent writing and verbal
skills with ability to prepare and interpret complex reports.
DUTIES : Deliver comprehensive, high-quality surgical care at George Hospital and
outreach facilities across Eden and Central Karoo. Perform and supervise
surgical procedures within the wide scope of practice inherent to a General
Surgeon working in the public sector. Support teaching and mentoring of
medical officers, registrars, and students. Ensure accurate clinical
documentation, patient referrals, and discharge planning. Participate in clinical
governance, audits, M&M meetings, and patient safety initiatives. Complete
medico-legal documentation accurately and on time. Contribute to responsible
HR and financial management, ensuring prudent use of resources. Promote
patient education, counselling, and community engagement.
ENQUIRIES : Dr T Koen Tel No: (044) 802-4535
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates are
subjects to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant
posts within George Regional Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/218 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (EMERGENCY MEDICINE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration
with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Medical
Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Medical
Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees,
of whom is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health
Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to
perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum
of 10 years appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration
with HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
173
Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Participation in a rotational shift-based roster that
requires work on weekends, nights and public holidays. Perform commuted
overtime and work after hours as required by operational needs. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience
in an Emergency Centre. Knowledge of the South African Triage Scale &
Emergency Medicine in Primary Emergency Care. Competency in
resuscitation (participate/lead) &basic and advanced emergency procedures.
Computer literacy Skills.
DUTIES : Provision of Emergency Care using Evidence Based Medicine. Clinical
management of adults, children and neonates. Rational use of scarce
resources and medical record keeping. Clinical governance including
medicolegal documentation and administrative self-management. Effective
communication and professional conduct. Supervision and teaching of medical
students and junior doctors.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Abrams Tel No: (021) 918-1904
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for vacancies within (the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services),
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical
and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/219 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (OBSTETRICS AND GYNAECOLOGY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(5-Year Contract Post)
SALARY : R 1 001 349 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs). (It will be expected of the successful
candidate to participate in a system of remunerated commuted overtime).
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner: Independent Practice. Registration with a professional
council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner: (Independent
Practice). Inherent requirements of the job: Participation in the commuted
overtime system is compulsory. Willingness to work after hours and shifts. Valid
Driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Successfully completed
Primary (Part 1) Fellow of the College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologist
(FCOG). Appropriate experience in labour ward management, including
operative and assisted deliveries. Appropriate experience in Obstetrics and
Gynaecology with minimum of 12 months as Medical Officer: Independent
Practice (post community service) under supervision. Completion of
ATLS/ACLS. Ability to communicate effectively (verbal and written). Ability to
work in integrated multi-disciplinary teams across platforms. Computer literacy
in MS Office.
DUTIES : In hospital and after hour care to women accessing obstetric and
gynaecological health services on the service platform. Participation in the
academic activities of with Department.
ENQUIRIES : Prof. G Petro Tel No: (021) 402-6324
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Consideration
will begiven to existing employees who are already on higher salary packages
to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled to
receive pay progression. Appointment as a Registrar will be for a maximum
174
contract period of 5 years. Employees in service who opt to continue with their
pension benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions.
Should registration with the HEI as a student be discontinued for any reason
the appointment of Registrar also discontinues. Applicants must indicate
whether they have bursary obligations. The Department of Health is guided by
the principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with disability are encouraged
to apply and an indication in this regard will be appreciated. The pool of
applicants will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the
job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same
as those of the advertised post. Specific Registrar posts within the Department
will be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. All
applicants must be South African citizens or permanent resident with a valid
identity document. Applicants who only have a temporary residence status will
not be considered. Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates
with the University of Cape Town according to the yearbook and guidelines.
Please ensure that you attach an updated CV. The institution Hospital has
adopted the department’s ecosystem framing of its training platform.
Accordingly, all registrar appointments may be called upon to work across this
platform and may include rotations at Metro West. This includes, New
Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and
George Provincial Hospital.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/220 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Mfuleni CDC, Khayelitsha Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with the professional council: Registration
with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: None after registration as
a Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees.
1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years’ relevant experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code B/EB
driver’s license. Willingness to do outreach services to clinics throughout the
Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of South African TB and HIV care guidelines (including drug
resistant TB and HIV in children). Computer literacy (MS Excel, Word, Outlook
etc.) and good communication, good interpersonal, organizational and
teamwork skills. Ability and willingness to do outreach services to clinics
throughout the Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure, guiding health care
colleagues in managing difficult PHC cases.
DUTIES : Provide quality outpatient care to patients in Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
Primary Health Care facilities. Provide an outreach and support service to PHC
facilities in the Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure. Provide an efficient
175
administration service regarding clinical and non-clinical matters. Relevant
administration as required for Medical Legal purposes. Ensure a cost-effective
service at clinical level with regards to laboratory services, blood, medicine,
consumables and equipment. Actively participate in skills transfer, training, and
academic opportunities relevant to the post. Active involvement in the clinical
governance of Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure facilities as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Matlali Tel No: (021) 810-8101
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Department for a period of 3
months from date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a practical/written
and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/221 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE)
West Coast District
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Graafwater Clinic, Cederberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Post-basic qualification, with duration of at least 1-year, in Curative Skills in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited
with the SANC (R48). Registration with the Professional Council: Registration
with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
Diploma qualification in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment,
Treatment and Care (R48). Inherent requirements of the job: Computer literacy
(MS Word and Excel). Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Good interpersonal
and communication skills. Good organizing skills. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Information Management regarding PHC indicators. Quality
Assurance knowledge. COPC Principles and implementation. Legislation of
Ideal clinic and Office of Health standards and compliance.
DUTIES : Effective management and execution of relevant Curative Programmes on
PHC level. Effective management and execution of integrated child and youth
health services. Effective management and execution of the integrated
maternal and woman`s health services. Effective management and execution
of the HAST program. Provide holistic management and leadership in
delivering quality services in the PHC facility and coordinate the mobile
services.
ENQUIRIES : Sr M Sandt Tel No: (027) 482-1484
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test and a competency assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/222 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY: OPD & EMERGENCY
OPERATING THEATRE AND CSSD)
Overberg District
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Hermanus Hospital, Overstand Sub-district
176
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e., diploma or
degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. A post-basic nursing qualification
with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in Medical and
Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and Emergency or
General or in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating Theatre.
Registration with the professional council: Registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A
minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. At least 5
years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable
experience in the specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post basic
qualification as mentioned above. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness
to work shifts, night duty, overtime, public holidays and weekends and relieve
duties. Standby duties. A valid (B/EC/C1) driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Basic Computer literacy (MS Office Word. Excel,
PowerPoint, Outlook). Ability to function independantly, as well as in a multi-
disciplinary team to ensure good patient care. Ability to communicate
effectively. Knowledge of appropriate legislation, regulations and Departmental
Policies. Knowledge of Hospital Centre Triage, Information Systems (HECTIS)
AND South African Triage System. Effective interpretation, leadership, execute
discipline, decision-making and resolution skills. Knowledge of Operating
theatre.
DUTIES : Strategic leadership: Provide supervision and direction for the implementation
of holistic nursing care in EC and Operating theatre. Clinical patients care
according to professional practices, procedures and standards. Effective
quality assurance management. Effective information management. Effective
management of human and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms AE Klaasen Tel No: (028) 312-1166
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to competency assessment. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Overberg District, for a period of three months
from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/223 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY: THEATRE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. A post-basic qualification with a duration of at least 1 year accredited
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) in Medical and Surgical Nursing
Science: Operating Theatre Nursing. Registration with the professional council:
Registration with the South African Nursing Council as a Professional Nurse
and Midwife. Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience in the specific speciality after obtaining
the 1-year post basic qualification as mentioned above. Inherent requirements
of the job: The ability to work under pressure, be self-motivated, possess
excellent interpersonal skills, leadership skills and the ability to work as part of
a team and independently. Work night duty on a planned schedule to relief the
night manager. Willingness to work overtime, after hours hospital cover,
weekends and Public Holidays as required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of legal framework and regulations regarding nursing practice.
Good leadership and people management skills maintain constructive
relationships with members of the multi-disciplinary team. Computer literacy
and basic financial management skills. Good verbal and written communication
skills.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate and render holistic comprehensive specialised nursing care
provided within a professional / legal framework. Manage and monitor the
177
effective utilization of human, financial and physical resources as per
departmental policies. Provide effective support, development, education and
research activities. Provide effective support service to the Nursing Division.
Effectively maintained professional growth and ethical standards in the Theatre
department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Anthony Tel No: (021) 360-4408
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/224 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY UNIT: TRAUMA AND
OPD)
West Coast District
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Swartland Hospital, Swartland Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
Diploma/Degree) in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows for
registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. A post-basic
nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year accredited with the SANC
in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing: General or
Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and
Emergency. Registration with the Professional Council: Registration with
(SANC) as the Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A minimum of 9
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the
specific specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as
mentioned above. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
license. Willingness to work after hours (weekends, public holidays and night
duty). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of appropriate legislation,
regulations and Departmental Policies. Knowledge of Hospital and Emergency
Centre Triage Information System (HECTIS) and South African Triage System
(Basic knowledge and experience in human resource management, labour
relations, financial and supply chain procurement processes. Experience in the
use of clinical equipment and control of budget levels. The ability to promote
quality patient care through the setting, implementation, and monitoring of
standards. Effective communication, interpretation, leadership, execute
discipline, decision-making and conflict resolution skills. Computer literacy (MS
Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Outlook).
DUTIES : Coordination of optimal, holistic specialised nursing care within set standards
and within a professional /legal framework. Manage effectively the utilisation
and supervision of resources. Coordination of the provision of effective training
and research. Provision of effective Support to Nursing Services. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PE Robyn Tel No: (022) 487-9204
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates may be subjected
to a competency-based assessment. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Swartland Sub-District within the period of
three months from the date of advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements and salary level are the same as those of advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/225 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING:
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
178
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma /
degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse. A post-basic
nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year accredited with the SANC
in Occupational Health Nursing Science. Registration with the Professional
Council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience:
Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing
after registration as a Professional nurse with the SANC in General nursing.
Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional with the SANC in General nursing.
At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific specialty after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant specialty. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work after hours and clinical duties to
meet the operational requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
verbal and communication and computer literacy (Ms Word, Excel, Power
point) skills. Practical knowledge of Occupational Health and Risk
Management. Practical knowledge of research methodology and Quality
Management. Ability to work independently and as part of the multi-disciplinary
team.
DUTIES : Provide Occupational Health clinical services as required (promoting Health,
Safety and Wellness in the workplace) and manage IOD and occupational
diseases processes at facility level. Render an effective and efficient
Administrative System and Control for the Occupational Health and Safety
Service. Conduct Risk assessment audits and manage medical surveillance
programme Participate in training programmes in conjunction with People
Management and Training Departments as required. Provide supervision and
advisory services on all Occupational Health and Safety matters for the
hospital.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Dubru-Shunmugam Tel No: (021) 799-1125/ or e-mail address:
Mary.Dubru@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Occupational Health Nursing Science. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar posts within Victoria Hospital for a
period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/226 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING:
PSYCHIATRY (NEURO CLINIC)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse with Psychiatry. A post-basic nursing
qualification with a duration of at least 1 year accredited with the SANC in
Advanced Psychiatry Nursing Science. Registration with the Professional
Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Psychiatry.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/ recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific speciality after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic qualification as mentioned above. Inherent requirements
179
of the job: Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty, weekends and public
holidays to meet operational requirements. It will be required of the incumbent
to rotate within the hospital.
DUTIES : Provide optimal, holistic specialized psychiatric nursing care within set
standards and professional/legal framework. Effective utilization of human,
financial and physical resources (equipment and consumables). Participation
in appropriate personal /professional development activities: Self, students,
other categories of staff. Ensure efficient and accurate documentation,
statistical data collection capturing and participation in research activities.
Assist with the development and the implementation of nursing quality
improvement plans, policies and standard operating procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Fredericks Tel No: (021) 940-4416
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. “Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science with the South
African Nursing Council. The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/227 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: MATERNITY, MOU)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Bishop Lavis CHC – extended hours
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. A post-basic nursing
qualification with a duration of at least 1 year accredited with the SANC in
Advanced Midwife and Neonatal Nursing Science. Registration with the
professional council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
in General Nursing and Midwife. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period
referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific
specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant
specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work in the
geographical PHC facilities within the Northern Tygerberg substructure, when
operationally required. Willingness to work after hours as well as working
overtime and shifts. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal, leadership and management skills.
Ability to direct the team to ensure quality holistic health care and to function
independently in a multi-disciplinary team. Computer literacy (MS Word and
Excel). Demonstrate an in-depth knowledge of nursing and public service
legislation. Knowledge of Human resource, financial and supply chain policies,
and guidelines.
DUTIES : Responsible for the provision and implementation of comprehensive holistic
nursing care and treatment to all pregnant clients. Assist with management of
people management services with the Department. Effective utilisation of
financial resources with the department. Ensure the promotion of Quality
Assurance, Infection Control and Prevention & Occupational Health & Safety
with the department. Deliver a support service to the Operational Manager and
ensure effective coordination of the nursing division after hours.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Ngcaba Tel No: (021) 508-4611
180
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the required qualification will be appointed in the
general stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary qualifications
within a predetermined period of time. Candidates without the required post-
basic qualifications can only be appointed if no suitable candidates with the
required educational qualifications could not be found. “Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” -This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a post-basic qualification with duration of at least 1 year, accredited with SANC
in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Sciences. “The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Metro Health Services, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.” Candidates will be subjected to a practical/oral
assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/228 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING:
PSYCHIATRY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Delft CHC (24 Hours)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i. e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse with
Psychiatry. A post-basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year,
accredited with SANC in Advanced Psychiatry Nursing Science. Registration
with the Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse and Psychiatry. Experience: Grade 1: A Minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A Minimum of 14
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in
Psychiatry, after obtaining the 1year post-basic qualification in Advanced
Psychiatric Nursing Science. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
interpersonal, planning, and organisational skills. Computer literacy (MS
Office). Knowledge of the Mental Health Care Act, Child Care Act, Nursing Act
and other relevant legislation.
DUTIES : Render and effective and comprehensive nursing treatment and care to
patients. Provide continuous and comprehensive nursing care, Effective
utilization of human, material and physical resources. Work as part of the multi-
disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing care. Work effectively, co-
operatively amicably with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial, or
religious differences. Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the
scope of practice and nursing standards as determined by the health facility.
Promote quality of nursing care as directed by the professional scope of
practice and standards as determined by the health facility.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. I Van Heerden Tel No: (021) 812-1890
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science with the South
181
African Nursing Council. The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a written/practical
and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/229 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Leeu-Gamka Clinic, Beaufort West Sub District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Post-basic qualification, with duration of at least 1-year, in Curative Skills in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care (R 48)
accredited with the SANC. Registration with the professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience:
Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing
after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification in the specific specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to travel. Willingness to work
overtime when necessary and to work at other clinics in the Sub-district.
Willingness to drive a mobile clinic vehicle. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
NIMART training or experience. Problem-solving, report writing, liaison and
facilitation skills. Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook. Good
communication skills Verbal and written).
DUTIES : Assist with the management of the Burden of disease according to the
comprehensive health programmes. Quality of service Plan and implement
Health Promotion and Prevention activities in facility and Community. Link to
the community structures and NPO’s. Collect data and submit reports. Provide
PHC services to the surrounding communities. Assist with the management of
Human Resources, Finance, SCM, Strategy and Health support and
infrastructure and equipment management under supervision.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Nel Tel No: (023) 414-8200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Curative Skills in Clinical Nursing Science: Health
Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited with the SANC (R48). The pool
of applications will be considered for vacancies within Central Karoo District,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/230 : RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 TO 3 (DIAGNOSTIC)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
182
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Radiographer in Diagnostic Radiography. Registration with the professional
council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Diagnostic
Radiographer in respect of RSA-qualified employees. 1-year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Diagnostic Radiographer in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Diagnostic
Radiographer in respect of RSA-qualified employees. A Minimum of 11 years
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Diagnostic
Radiographer in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3:
A minimum of 20 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA
as Diagnostic Radiographer in respect of RSA-qualified employees. A
minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Diagnostic Radiographer in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it
is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: Render an after-hour service as part of your
40- hour work week as determined by the department. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of protocols, radiation protection, quality
assurance and equipment safety. Good interpersonal skills and perform
effectively as part of a multidisciplinary team. Knowledge of Patient Archiving
and Communication Systems and Radiology Information Systems. Good
communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide a Radiographic service. Produce diagnostic images of high quality.
Optimal patient care. Safe use and care of equipment. Accurate record
keeping. Assist with training of community service Radiographers and
students. Participate in continuing professional development activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Dreyer Tel No: (021) 938-5918
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
as Diagnostic Radiographer with the relevant council (including individuals who
must apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/231 : CLINICAL TECHNOLOGIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (NEUROPHYSIOLOGY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Clinical Technologist in Neurophysiology. Registration with the professional
council: Registration with the HPCSA as Clinical Technologist:
Neurophysiologist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
HPCSA as a Clinical Technologist: Neurophysiology in respect of RSA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a
Clinical Technologist: Neurophysiology in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as a Clinical Technologist: Neurophysiology
respect of SA qualified employees. A Minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as a Clinical Technologist: Neurophysiology
in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Clinical
Technologist: Neurophysiology in respect of SA qualified employees. A
183
minimum of 21 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
a Clinical Technologist: Neurophysiology in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: After-hours’ service is
compulsory. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Advanced knowledge of clinical
neurology and the skill to work with paediatric, adult and geriatric patients.
Relevant experience in all aspects of clinical Neurophysiology.
DUTIES : Perform electroencephalographs on patients in a laboratory, ward and
intensive care unit setting. Perform nerve conduction studies on patients in a
laboratory, ward and intensive care unit setting. Perform evoked potentials on
patients in a laboratory, ward and intensive care unit setting. Perform overnight
polysomnography, multiple sleep latency test and multiple wakefulness test.
Perform Intraoperative Monitoring for patients in Theatre. Participate in
Research projects. Participate in on-going quality control and infection control.
Participate in training of Clinical Technology students. Perform assigned
administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. E Mollentze Tel No: (021) 938-5500 or email:
emmerentia.mollentze@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration as
Clinical Technologist: Neurophysiology with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/232 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (CHILD AND ADOLESCENT)
(X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an
Occupational Therapist. Registration with the professional council: Registration
with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist. Experience: Grade 1: None
after registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as an Occupational Therapist. One-year relevant experience after registration
with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign-qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years relevant experience
after registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as an Occupational Therapist. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience after
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as an
Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform community service, as required in South Africa. Grade
3: A Minimum of 20 years relevant experience after registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational Therapist. A
minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
an Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign-qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform community service, as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of applicable health legislation,
relevant acts and public service policies and procedures. Appropriate Mental
Health experience. Understanding of evidence-based practice and knowledge
of PSR model in a Mental health environment. Good communication,
organizational and planning abilities. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Conducting assessment of patients; planning, implementation & evaluation of
treatment. Attending of ward rounds, team meetings & team assessments.
Intersectoral liaison with Western Cape Education Department & Department
184
of Social Development. Conducting Outreach. Support & strengthening of
infant mental health & family care. Capacity building of OT’s at Primary Health
Care levels. Delivering vocational rehabilitation interventions within a long-term
service. Liaising with the multidisciplinary team, sending referrals to various
stakeholders and following up with these persons/organizations. Report
writing, file entries and capturing daily stats. Management of material and
equipment and ordering of stock. Participate in academics and departmental
training.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Matthee Tel No: (021) 370-1402
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment. “Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or
before the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status”. The pool of applicants will be considered for vacancies
within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months
from date of advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/233 : CASE MANAGER
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year health related
National Diploma/Degree registrable with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa (HPCSA) or South African Nursing Council (SANC). Experience:
Appropriate experience in Case Management/Medical Aid Environment.
Appropriate experience in ICD 10 codes assigned. Appropriate experience in
liaison with medical aid (funders) and managed care organisations with regards
to MHC policies, protocols, optimal fund utilisation and updated clinical
information. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Knowledge of the Uniform
Patient Fees Schedule, Hospital Information Systems and EDI (Electronic Data
Interchange). Knowledge of Medical Aid Act 131 of 1998 and the application of
Prescribed Minimum Benefit (PMB) legislation i.e. the Chronic Disease List
(CDL) and the Diagnostic Treatment Pairs (DTP). Ability to work with MS Excel
and Web-based Programmes (medical aids). Ability to link patient diagnosis
with procedure codes. Good communication skills (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Perform hospital Case Management functions wrt authorisation, benefit
management, and review of clinical information for externally funded clients.
Co-ordinate the workflow process between clinical and admin personnel
supporting various role players within the hospital wrt ICD-10 codes, prescribed
minimum benefits and account queries. Conduct clinical audits of Medical Aids
and State Department, eg. RAF and COIDA to ensure accuracy of invoices.
Implement Case Management policies, protocols and procedures within the
hospital. Relief colleagues. Provide quotations to privately funded and foreign
patients and compile statistical reports. Supervision of staff and liaison with
relevant role players in matters relating to Case Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TJ Langenhoven Tel No: (021) 404-2358
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for these posts. Candidates
will be subjected to a competency test. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
185
POST 43/234 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PEOPLE MANAGEMENT
(RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate Human Resource Management: Recruitment
and Selection experience. Appropriate supervisory experience. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Extensive knowledge of HR Policies, procedures, practices
relevant to Recruitment and Selection and various OSD's implementation.
Communication, interpersonal and problem-solving skills. Computer literacy
with proficiency in MS Word and Excel.
DUTIES : Ensure an effective and efficient management of the Recruitment and
Selection section and the correct implementation of HR policies and circulars
relevant to the section. Investigate and respond to queries as well as assist
and advise in respect of grievances with regards to Recruitment and Selection.
Ensure proper safekeeping of all documents. Supervision and development of
subordinate. Render support to supervisor and colleagues when needed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Alexander Tel No: (021) 404-2271
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may have to undergo a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/235 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Office of the Chief Director: Metro Health Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Transport, Registry,
procurement, systems and contract management. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): In-depth
knowledge of public sector administrative procedures and protocols.
Understanding government supply chain management and procurement
processes. Strong knowledge of facilities and building maintenance
coordination. Familiarity with contract management and service provider
liaison (e.g., hostesses and cleaning services). Knowledge of transport
scheduling, vehicle management, and logbook control. Registry and records
management expertise (electronic and manual systems). Computer proficiency
in MS Office Suite (Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint). Excellent
communication and interpersonal skills. Strong organizational, time
management, and coordination skills. Attention to detail and ability to work with
confidential information. Financial administration knowledge, including
requisitions, purchase orders, and budget monitoring. Problem-solving ability
and ability to work independently and under pressure. Customer service
orientation and ability to liaise effectively with internal and external
stakeholders.
DUTIES : Coordinate and oversee maintenance and upkeep of the BHP building,
including reporting faults and ensuring timely repairs. Manage and monitor the
hostess services to ensure compliance with service standards. Management
of the cleaning, gardening and pest control contracts of BHP to ensure
compliance with contract specifications. Manage and monitor the security
services to ensure compliance with service standards. Oversee the registry
function to ensure effective records management, filing, archiving, and retrieval
of documents. Coordinate transport operations, including vehicle scheduling,
logbook maintenance, fuel management, and driver supervision. Prepare and
process procurement documentation, purchase orders, and payment
requisitions in line with departmental procedures. Facilitate internal and
external meetings, workshops, and events, including logistics and catering
arrangements. Ensure adherence to health, safety, and facility management
standards within the BHP building. Compile administrative reports, monitor
expenditure, and assist with budget control. Liaise with maintenance teams,
and departmental stakeholders to ensure smooth operations. Support the
implementation of continuous improvement initiatives in administrative and
operational processes. Perform any other duties delegated by management in
186
support of departmental objectives. Supervision and development of Support
Services personnel. Provide comprehensive administrative and operational
support to Supervisor and management team.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Hendricks Tel No: (021) 815-8718 or (073) 247-0881
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/236 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE (X2 POSTS)
West Coast District
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Swartland Hospital, Malmesbury (X1 Post)
Radie Kotze Hospital, Piketberg (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate Human Resource Management: Recruitment
and Selection experience. Appropriate supervisory experience. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Extensive knowledge of HR Policies, procedures, practices
relevant to Recruitment and Selection and various OSD's implementation.
Communication, interpersonal and problem-solving skills. Computer literacy
with proficiency in MS Word and Excel.
DUTIES : Ensure an effective and efficient management of the Recruitment and
Selection section and the correct implementation of HR policies and circulars
relevant to the section. Investigate and respond to queries as well as assist
and advise in respect of grievances with regards to Recruitment and Selection.
Ensure proper safekeeping of all documents. Supervision and development of
subordinate. Render support to supervisor and colleagues when needed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Alexander Tel No: (021) 404-2271
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may have to undergo a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/237 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape Rehabilitation Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Recruitment and Selection,
Establishment Administration & Staff Performance management. Appropriate
supervisory experience in HRM Appropriate PERSAL experience. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Extensive knowledge of PERSAL. Extensive knowledge of
HR Policies, procedures and practices relevant to Establishment
Administration and Recruitment and Selection. Extensive knowledge of the
Staff Performance Management process. Computer literacy – intermediate to
advance (MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Maintenance and monitoring of the Establishment and compiling submissions
for the creation and abolishment (HF2 process) of posts. Co-ordinate and
manage all advertising of posts within Hospital, including the advertising of post
and drafting submission for filling of posts. Maintenance of monthly reports on
status of posts, compiling a database of applications and tracking progress of
posts advertised. Facilitate and support formal pre-mod committees and
grievances facilitation with regards to SPMS. Provide training and the optimal
management of SPMS process within the hospital. Effective management and
supervision of Recruitment and Selection function. Monitor of performance of
staff and oversee development and training.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. JW Fortuin Tel No: (021) 370-2319
187
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates will be subjected to a written and oral assessment. The pool of
applicants will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the
job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same
as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/238 : PRIMARY HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT OFFICER
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain Community Health Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate plus an appropriate
National Certificate (NQF 5). Experience: Extensive experience in a Primary
Health Care environment. Inherent requirements of the job: A Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal
and communication skills. Good multi-tasking skills. Good decision-making and
conflict management skills. Extensive computer literacy with experience in the
Microsoft Office package and other systems, including Permis, Logis and
PHCIS.
DUTIES : Assist the Facility Manager as Head of Administration. Management of Support
Services in the unit. Oversee facility Finance, Supply Chain Management,
Asset Management, Contract Management and related to Support Services
that includes security services, waste management, grounds management and
others. Provide support as Labour Relations Liaison to facility manager, unit
managers and staff. Represent the facility as liaison on various forums such as
safety and security, QA-, OHS/IPC-, waste committees, community health
committee meetings and support service-related meetings at institutional and
provincial level.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Y Samuels Tel No: (021) 684-1400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical, and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/239 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A (ELECTRICAL) (DENTAL TECHNICAL
SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R382 047 per annum
CENTRE : Oral Health Centre (Metro Health Services) including satellite clinics, Red
Cross Hospital, Groote Schuur Hospital, Mitchells Plain Day Clinic and
Gugulethu Day Clinic
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Trade Test Certificate.
Experience: 5 years’ experience as an Artisan after obtaining the trade test
certificate. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid wireman’s licence. Valid
driver's licence. Physically fit for perform duties. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Conversant with the requirements of the Machinery and
Occupational Health and Safety Act. (Act 85). Ability to fault-find and repair
down to component level. Competent with hand-on practical work. Computer
literacy in Microsoft Excel, Word and Power Point. Ability to work under
pressure and independently with good report-writing skills, conflict
management and interpersonal skills, as well as excellent verbal and written
communication skills. Sound knowledge of managing a workshop and staff
members including maintenance facets. Appropriate experience of managing
a workshop and staff members.
DUTIES : Supervising and mentoring the Artisan Assistants. Performing complex
technical tasks beyond the capabilities of Artisan Assistants. Managing the on-
site workshop operations. Compiling technical specifications for replacement
188
parts and new equipment. Conducting technical assessments and preparing
reports. Monitoring and managing infrastructure such as compressors, air
dryers, air conditioning systems, cooling towers, packaged units, autoclaves
and water distillers. Assist in departmental budgeting and expenditure control.
Performing maintenance at Satelite Clinics. Support to the Maintenance
Manager on the Joint platform of UWC and DOHW.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Z Karoodien Tel No: (021) 937-3015
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates will be subjected to a written and oral assessment. No payment of
any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/240 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Crossroads Community Day Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administrative experience in support services.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and understanding and
experience in LOGIS as well as knowledge and experience of budgetary
aspects. Knowledge of Supply Chain Management, Procurement policy of the
Department and personnel procedures. Computer literacy (MS Word and
Excel).
DUTIES : Manage the allocated budget, assist with expenditure, administration and
revenue management. Manage the Supply Chain section and the assets of the
facility including contract management and fleet management. Personnel and
Labour relations management. Manage the support to Facility Manager and
Community Day Centre. Render assistance to Facility Management. Human
Resources control and management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Malgas Tel No: (021) 370-0232
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical, and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/241 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING) (NURSE
RELIEF TEAM AND WARD 11) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse with Psychiatry. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse and
Psychiatry. Experience: Grade1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as a
Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as a
Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty, weekends and public holidays.
Expected to rotate within the facility. Willingness to assist at other facilities
189
within in the ecosystem related to Psychiatric services. Competencies
(knowledge/ skills): Knowledge and understanding of nursing care processes,
procedures, statuses, and other relevant legal and ethical practices. Computer
literacy: MS Office, MS Outlook. Good Communication Skills. Report Writing.
Appropriate experience working with Mental Health Care users in a Psychiatric
Ward.
DUTIES : Provide optimal, holistic specialized psychiatric nursing care within set
standards and professional/legal and ecosystem framework. Effective
utilisation of resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and
self-development. Provision of Support to Nursing Services. Participation in
training and research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Vlotman Tel No: (021) 370-1456
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. Candidates will be subjected to a
written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants will be considered
for similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for
a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/242 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING)
(GENERAL INPATIENTS)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
(Plus non pensionable rural allowance of 12% of your annual basic salary).
CENTRE : Beaufort West Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with the professional council: Registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, including weekends, public
holidays, night shifts and overtime. Willingness to rotate to other wards in the
facility and to work at the clinics in the Sub-district when needed.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Self- discipline and motivation. The ability to
function independently under pressure. Knowledge of Nursing Practice,
Infection Prevention Control, control measures and practices. Basic Computer
skills. Excellent communication skills (both written and verbal).
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice or patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria, and
indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and health
care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health
care. Maintain constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human, material, and physical resources efficiently and
effectively. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TW Ntombana Tel No: (023) 414 - 8200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
190
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Central Karoo District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/243 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING) (NURSE
RELIEF TEAM AND WARD 11) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse with Psychiatry. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse and
Psychiatry. Experience: Grade1: None. Grade2: A minimum of 10 years
recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as a
Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as a
Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty, weekends and public holidays.
Expected to rotate within the facility. Willingness to assist at other facilities
within in the ecosystem related to Psychiatric services. Competencies
(knowledge/ skills): Knowledge and understanding of nursing care processes,
procedures, statuses, and other relevant legal and ethical practices. Computer
literacy: MS Office, MS Outlook. Good Communication Skills. Report Writing.
Appropriate experience working with Mental Health Care users in a Psychiatric
Ward.
DUTIES : Provide optimal, holistic specialized psychiatric nursing care within set
standards and professional/legal and ecosystem framework. Effective
utilisation of resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and
self-development. Provision of Support to Nursing Services. Participation in
training and research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Vlotman Tel No: (021) 370-1456
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. Candidates will be subjected to a
written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants will be considered
for similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for
a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/244 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HRM (PEOPLE MANAGEMENT)
Chief Directorate Rural Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Personnel administration.
191
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good computer (MS Word and Excel),
numeracy and mathematical skills. Good interpersonal skills and the ability to
work in a team context. Knowledge of Human Resource prescripts in Public
Service. Ability to function under pressure and meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Effectively handle all personnel matters, such as salaries, pension,
appointments, resignations, transfers, leave and other allowances on
PERSAL. Assist staff, colleagues, supervisors, management and members of
the public with regards to all Human Resources and Personnel matters
including Recruitment and Selection processes. Assist with all other
administrative functions in the personnel component. Handle a variety of
personnel, written and telephonic enquiries. Audit personnel, pension and
leave files. Variety of clerical duties including filing. Responsible for capturing
transaction on PERSAL.
ENQUIRIES : Mr CL Appollis Tel No: (021) 860-2845
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/245 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (ORAL
HEALTH CENTRE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Oral Health Centres, (Tygerberg/Mitchell's Plain)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Information Management. Appropriate
experience in departmental systems (Sinjani, Clinicom and Business
intelligence). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Advanced Computer literacy
(MS Office 365 package). Knowledge of business process analysis, mapping,
modelling and automation of Systems to improve data flow processes.
Compilation of reports for meetings and decision making – using various BI
platforms (Power BI). Maintain and improve information quality standards.
DUTIES : Collect, collate and analyse data. Compilation of daily, weekly and monthly
statistics. Verify data from Clinicom to registers. Co-ordinate Ditcom application
process. Check faults and report to helpdesk. Assist staff with basic computer
and Clinicom training. Circulate information to Management and staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L Cooper Tel No: (021) 937-3141
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates will be subjected to a written and oral assessment. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/246 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT
West Coast District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Lapa Munnik Hospital, Bergriver Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in medical records and patient
administration, including the Clinicom System. Inherent requirements of the
job: Physically fit and able to perform the tasks (must be able to lift heavy
boxes). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word,
Excel). Good verbal and written communication skills. Good interpersonal and
numerical skills and ability to accept accountability, responsibility and work
independently. Knowledge of the guidelines for filing, archiving and disposal of
patient records.
DUTIES : Responsible for effective admission of patients. Responsible for revenue
control which includes receipt of money, issue of accounts, Cash up and
safekeeping of patient’s valuables. Maintain an effective registry administration
function including the repair of patient files. Responsible for archiving patient
192
folders/ documentation according to regulations and policies. Ensure the
availability of adequate stock (consumables) in the nursing wards. Data
collection.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Julius Tel No: (022) 913-1337
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/247 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (PAEDIATRICS AND CHILD
HEALTH)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administrative experience in a large clinical (medical)
department. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (at least
intermediate or advanced level) in MS Word, MS PowerPoint, MS Excel; MS
Teams, and MS Outlook (email as well as calendars) and the ability to use
Internet forms (e,g, JotForm, RedCap) and computer databases e.g. the PPIP
program. Knowledge of Human Resources including leave policies. Good
communication, interpersonal and organising skills, ability to work well in teams
and to work under pressure. Professional telephone and email etiquette. The
ability to adapt to a changing environment and cope with a high volume of work
and be able to follow instructions and procedures. Good interpersonal
relations, organisational skills, and the ability to deal with information in a
confidential manner as part of a team and independently. Adhering to
legislation ensuring protection of personal and patient data.
DUTIES : Administration and effective management of the office of a large medical
department, such as compiling and maintaining monthly duty rosters for all
clinical personnel; administration and effective leave management- planning,
rostering, and appropriate documentation of leave (vacation, special, official,
sabbatical, LWOP, sick leave etc) for the medical personnel, monthly
verification of commuted overtime work, orientation of new staff and clerical
duties related to the office. Compile and maintain databases e.g. maternal
deaths, ward statistics and perinatal deaths. Be responsible for all aspects of
roster and duty planning. Maintain effective and efficient general office
administration and ad-hoc duties.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Hunter Tel No: (021) 938-6470
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/248 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Clinicom. Appropriate experience in
ECM. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, weekends,
public holidays and night shift. Willingness to work overtime on short notice.
Willingness to rotate in the facility and/or relief personnel. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel, Outlook) Good
communication and writing skills. Appropriate knowledge of Hospital Fees
Memorandum 18.
DUTIES : Admit, register, assess patients, open folders and raise invoices. Ensure audit
compliance, and accurate data recording within Admissions. Receive money,
issue receipts, safe keeping of state money, and perform relief cashier duties.
Safe custody of patient’s belongings. Prepare, scan, index and QA patient
folders. Support to supervisor, colleagues and other departments.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. JJ Malgas Tel No: (044) 802 - 4422
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
193
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within George Regional Hospital for a
period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/249 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HRM (PEOPLE MANAGEMENT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in People Management. Appropriate
knowledge of PERSAL. Inherent requirements of the job: Ability to work under
pressure. Prepared to work overtime when required. Ability to function in a
multi-disciplinary team. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good (written and
verbal) communication skills. Computer literacy essential (MS Word,
PowerPoint, Excel and Outlook). Ability to work under pressure and meet
deadlines.
DUTIES : Perform all administrative duties pertaining to the Personnel Administration
section (e.g. appointments, service terminations, transfers, pension
administration, PILIR, salary administration, leave, housing, WCA
administration, injury on duty, distribution of monthly payslips, verify documents
and qualifications). Ensure correct implementation of policies. Responsible for
capturing transactions on PERSAL. Handle all personnel enquiries and
correspondence (written and verbal). Assist with recruitment and selection
process and SPMS. Auditing of personnel and leave records. Assist staff with
regards to People Management and Personnel matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Petersen Tel No: (021) 360-4439
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/250 : STERILIZATION OPERATOR PRODUCTION (CSSD)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/ Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in a Central
Sterilization Service Department. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness
to work shifts including weekends, public holidays, night duty and be rotated.
Willingness to rotate within the CSSD department. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication and interpersonal skills. Ability to
work in a co-operative way within a team context. Basic understanding of
disinfection, decontamination and sterilization.
DUTIES : Effective application of sterilisation processes and techniques.
Promote/adhere to infection control, as well as health and safety regulations.
Check, decontaminate, pack and sterilise instruments, linen and supplies.
Assist with cleaning and testing of sterilisation equipment, disinfectant washers
and autoclaves, lift and pushing heavy equipment. Maintain equipment in an
optimum working condition and utilise resources. Use autoclaves, disinfectant
washers and equipment/consumables in a cost-effective manner. Ensure
surgical instrument trays is packed and marked correctly. Monitor, control and
maintain adequate stock levels, report and assist with the investigation of lost
instruments/ equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Dubase Tel No: (021) 938-4000
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
194
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/251 : TRADESMAN AID (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: NQF 3 (Grade 10) or equivalent.
Experience: Appropriate experience as a maintenance assistant / aid. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work overtime when needed and
perform relief duties. Capability to do strenuous physical labour. A valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to optimally
utilise allocated resources such as materials, tools and equipment. Appropriate
knowledge of the application of the requirements of the Machinery and
Occupational Health and Safety Act.
DUTIES : Complete and efficient execution of instructions which include, amongst other,
general maintenance. Assist with engineering projects, maintenance and
repairs, installations and alterations. Strict adherence to the Occupational
Health and Safety Act. Assist Assistant to Artisans and Artisans in the
performance of their duties. Exercise control over tools, equipment and
materials. Cleaning of Workshop and Plantrooms.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L Du Plessis Tel No: (044) 802-4488
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subject to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within George Regional Hospital for a
period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/252 : HOUSEHOLD AID
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy. Experience: Appropriate
health facility cleaning experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Ability to
lift/move heavy objects and working at heights requiring the use of a
stepladder. Willingness to work shifts, public holidays, weekends, overtime and
night duty. Relief in other departments when necessary. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication and interpersonal skills).
DUTIES : Maintenance of general cleanliness of clinical and non-clinical areas and
hygiene in line with OSH and IPC policies. Handling of general refuse and
medical waste in line with policies and procedures. Serve patient meals and
cleaning of crockery and cutlery in line with HACCP principles and food service
unit policies. Effective use, maintenance and safekeeping of supplies and
equipment. Attend in-service training and render support to the supervisor.
Handling of hospital linen i.e. soiled lined, dirty lined, clean linen, counting of
linen, packing linen room, etc.
ENQUIRIES : Ms RZ De Silva Tel No: (021) 808-6153
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be required to do a practical test. “The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within Stellenbosch Hospital, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.”
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
195
POST 43/253 : GROUNDSMAN
Garden Route District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Knysna CDC, Knysna/Bitou Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience: Appropriate
experience in cleaning and gardening of large institutions. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to
effectively multi-task, function independently and under pressure.
DUTIES : Maintaining the Hospital grounds and gardens. Removal of all types of rubble,
medical waste and general waste. Cleaning of work areas. Assistance to
supervisor. Handling and maintaining of gardening and cleaning equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PM Peters Tel No: (044) 302 - 8400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written assessment. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/254 : DENTIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (SESSIONAL) (SERVICE RENDERING-SPECIAL
NEEDS) (14 HOURS P/WEEK)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(Until 31 March 2028)
SALARY : Grade 1: R468 per hour
Grade 2: R550 per hour
Grade 3: R636 per hour
CENTRE : Oral Health Centres (Tygerberg/Mitchell’s Plain)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Dentist. Registration with the Professional Council: Registration with the
HPCSA as Dentist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Dentist
with the HPCSA in respect of SA-qualified employees. 1-year relevant
experience after registration as Dentist with a recognized foreign health
professional council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform community service, as necessary in South Africa. Grade
2: Minimum of 7 years’ appropriate experience as Dentist after registration with
the HPCSA as a Dentist in respect of SA-qualified employees. Minimum of 8
years’ relevant experience after registration as Dentist with a recognized
foreign health professional council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform community service, as necessary in South
Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 12 years’ appropriate experience as Dentist after
registration with the HPCSA as a Dentist in respect of SA-qualified employees.
Minimum of 13 years’ relevant experience after registration as Dentist with a
recognized foreign health professional council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service, as
necessary in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s
licence and willingness to travel to Tygerberg and Mitchell’s Plain Oral Health
Centre. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Special interest in special needs
patients and elderly patients. Adhere to all departmental requirements and
protocols. Excellent report writing, clinical documentation, recording keeping
and referral writing skills. Sound verbal and written communication skills. Good
computer skills (MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint) Comply with National Core
Standards and or ideal facility/clinic requirements as applicable and good time
management. Clinical therapeutic skills including assessment techniques,
treatment, discharge planning and follow up as needed. Ability to be flexible
and innovative in response to differing client needs.
DUTIES : Screening of patients on arrival and those referred to the Academic Oral Health
Centre. Record patient details. Liaising with the multidisciplinary team when
required. Assess, diagnose and treat patients in a holistic manner. Treating
patients under general anaesthetic and being familiar with general anaesthetic
protocols. Record keeping Responsible for compiling stats.
196
ENQUIRIES : Dr. CCA. Cloete Tel No: (021) 937-3092
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. Short listed candidates will be subjected to a
written and oral assessment. The pool of applicants will be considered for
vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/255 : DENTIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (SESSIONAL) (PAEDIATRIC DENTISTRY) (X10
POSTS) (20 SESSIONS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(3-Year Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R468 per hour
Grade 2: R550 per hour
Grade 3: R636 per hour
CENTRE : Oral Health Centre, Tygerberg/Mitchell’s Plain Platform (Maximum sessional
hours per week will not exceed 20 hours per appointee. Sessional allocation
will be discussed with candidates)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Dentist. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration with the
HPCSA as Dentist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Dentist
with the HPCSA in respect of SA-qualified employees. 1-year relevant
experience after registration as Dentist with a recognized foreign health
professional council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform community service, as necessary in South Africa. Grade
2: Minimum of 7 years’ appropriate experience as Dentist after registration with
the HPCSA as a Dentist in respect of SA-qualified employees. Minimum of 8
years’ relevant experience after registration as Dentist with a recognized
foreign health professional council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform community service, as necessary in South
Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 12 years’ appropriate experience as Dentist after
registration with the HPCSA as a Dentist in respect of SA-qualified employees.
Minimum of 13 years’ relevant experience after registration as Dentist with a
recognized foreign health professional council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service, as
necessary in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Driver’s
licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in
Paediatric Dentistry. Postgraduate qualification in Dentistry (i.e. Diploma or
Masters) Experience in teaching and training of undergraduate students in a
clinical environment at an Academic Institution. Ability to treat paediatric
patients under general anaesthesia and/or sedation.
DUTIES : Manage and treat paediatric patients’ dental needs in the clinic. Assess
students’ preparedness (theory and clinical). Ensure optimal and safe patient
care. Dental treatment under theatre/ sedation. Assist with paediatric
extractions at service rendering when required. Refer all patients appropriately
when required. Record keeping.
ENQUIRIES : Dr CW Peck Tel No: (021) 937-3076
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates will be subjected to a written and oral assessment. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
197
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be considered for
vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/256 : DENTIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (MAXILLOFACIAL RADIOLOGY) (SESSIONAL)
(16 & 14 HOURS PER WEEK) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(Contract until 30 November 2028)
SALARY : Grade 1: R468 per hour
Grade 2: R550 per hour
Grade 3: R636 per hour
CENTRE : Oral Health Centre, Tygerberg/Mitchell’s Plain Platform
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Dentist. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration with the
HPCSA as Dentist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Dentist
with the HPCSA in respect of SA-qualified employees. 1-year relevant
experience after registration as Dentist with a recognized foreign health
professional council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform community service, as necessary in South Africa. Grade
2: Minimum of 7 years’ appropriate experience as Dentist after registration with
the HPCSA as a Dentist in respect of SA-qualified employees. Minimum of 8
years’ relevant experience after registration as Dentist with a recognized
foreign health professional council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform community service, as necessary in South
Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 12 years’ appropriate experience as Dentist after
registration with the HPCSA as a Dentist in respect of SA-qualified employees
. Minimum of 13 years’ relevant experience after registration as Dentist with a
recognized foreign health professional council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service, as
necessary in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Driver’s
licence. Postgraduate qualification in Maxillofacial Radiology (i.e. Diploma or
Masters). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in a
Maxillofacial Radiology Department. Appropriate experience in teaching and
training of undergraduate students in a clinical environment at an Academic
Institution. Ability to apply advanced radiological knowledge and interpretation
skills to support diagnosis and patient management.
DUTIES : Interpret radiographs and Cone Beam Computed Tomography. Prepare written
diagnostic reports, consult with Clinicians. Conduct tutorials, case-based
learning. Supervise clinical sessions. Support student research. Ensure
accurate records, contribute to departmental stats.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Indermun Tel No: (021) 937-3161/3112
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
“Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals
who must apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will
be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of 3 months from the date of the advert, provided that the
job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same
as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
198
POST 43/257 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (PAEDIATRICS) (SESSIONAL) (3
HOURS PER WEEK)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(3 Year Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R646 per hour
Grade 2: R737 per hour
Grade 3: R853 per hour
CENTRE : Mowbray Maternity Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in
Paediatrics. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as
Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees) as
Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Inherent requirement of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to manage all neonatal cases comprehensively including ventilation of
tertiary level patients. Appropriate experience in bereavement and palliative
care counselling. Proven leadership abilities and experience in supervision of
staff and resources and proven experience in principles of planning, organizing
and implementation. Proven knowledge of public health policies, guidelines
and related prescript to manage resources effectively and research experience
as a primary investigator or research supervisor. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Assistance in and management of neonatal services at MMH, including
perinatal audit meetings, management decisions, patient counselling and
management referrals from the drainage area. Conduct ward rounds and
oversee the daily operations of the neonatal department. Clinical supervision
of doctors in training/direct staff supervision: especially NICU acute neonatal
emergencies and training on complex patients. Training of junior staff, and
under- and postgraduate students. Liaise with the community neonatal care
services rendered by the community-based health workers and department of
social development. Adhere to requirements for all people management and
financial matters.
ENQUIRIES : Dr A Daniels Tel No: (021) 659-5562
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including)individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”. The
pool of applicants will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided
that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/258 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (ORTHOPAEDICS) (15 SESSIONS)
(3 Year Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R646 per hour
Grade 2: R737 per hour
Grade 3: R853 per hour
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
199
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Orthopaedics. Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Orthopaedics.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Orthopaedics. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist in Orthopaedics. Grade 3: A minimum of 10
years appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the
HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a
foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Orthopaedics.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): SAOA Endorsed Limb Reconstruction
Fellowship (Minimum 1 Year). Tertiary Hospital experience in musculoskeletal
oncology surgery. Proven research experience. Appropriate experience in the
management of complex limb reconstruction and musculoskeletal tumour
surgery for example: Fracture Related Infection, Bone defect management,
Musculoskeletal tumour surgery, Deformity correction and limb lengthening
surgery, Megaprosthesis reconstruction and Complex tertiary trauma
reconstruction. Evidence of prior research and publications in the fields of
Orthopaedic Surgery and/or a research orientated degree or proof of
registration in a research orientated degree e.g. PhD. Evidence of previous
teaching of under- and postgraduate medical students in an academic
institution.
DUTIES : Clinical and Administrative Responsibilities of the Orthopaedic Tumor, Sepsis
and Reconstruction Unit. Provision of clinical service delivery at specialist level
across the full spectrum of limb reconstruction and musculoskeletal oncology
surgery at Tygerberg Hospital. Supervision of clinical and operative activities
of orthopaedic surgeons- in- training. Active participation in the undergraduate
and postgraduate programs of the Division of orthopaedics and the University
of Stellenbosch FMHS. Conducting and supervising research in the field of
Orthopaedics.
ENQUIRIES : Prof Jacques du Toit Tel No: (021) 938-9266
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
as Medical Specialist in Orthopaedics with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/259 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (ANAESTHESIOLOGY) (18
SESSIONS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(3 Year Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R646 per hour
Grade 2: R737 per hour
Grade 3: R853 per hour
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Registration with the Professions
Council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Anaesthesiology. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA
as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
(or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign
qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Grade 3: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in
200
Anaesthesiology. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to shifts as
required by the institution. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work in
a team and with all levels of staff and interest in developing an academic
career.
DUTIES : To deliver comprehensive anaesthesia and critical care services to patients in
theatre and in the intensive care unit at Victoria Hospital. This would include
the following roles: Pre-operative, intraoperative and post-operative
anaesthetic management of surgical patients from ASA1-5. Supervising junior
MOs and interns. Delivering critical care to surgical ICU patients. Teaching and
training. Management duties such as statistics, presentations and research.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Z Fullerton Tel No: (021) 799-1170, email:
zahnne.fullerton@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within department, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.” Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of
the interview. This concession is only applicable to health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration as Medical Specialist in Anaethesiology
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for a change in
registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/260 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (16 SESSIONS)
West Coast District
(Contract until 31 March 2027)
SALARY : Grade 1: R482 per hour
Grade 2: R550 per hour
Grade 3: R636 per hour
CENTRE : Swartland Hospital, Swartland Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professionals Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
a Medical Practitioner. Registration with the Professional Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of who is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Have a
valid driver’s licence. Ability to travel in the Sub District Work after hours as
needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Must be able to perform the full
spectrum of District level services. This includes Emergency and Inpatient Care
at a district hospital for the following disciplines: 1) Internal Medicine 2)
Paediatrics 3) Obstetrics and Gynaecology 4) General Surgery 5)
Orthopaedics 6) Psychiatry 7) ENT 8) Ophthalmology 9) Dermatology On the
primary health care platform, the candidate will be expected to manage chronic
diseases, HIV and TB cases. Must be able to handle all emergency cases as
required at District level.
201
DUTIES : Clinical Service Provision. Clinical Service Provision. Forensic Service
Provision. Service Management. Training and Development.
ENQUIRIES : Dr J Brownbridge Tel No: (022) 487-9200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Swartland Sub-district, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/261 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (SESSIONAL) (ALLERGOLOGY) (3
SESSIONS)
(12-Month Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R482 per hour
Grade 2: R550 per hour
Grade 3: R636 per hour
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with the Professional Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as a Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of who is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years relevant experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience
after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: Applicants must be willing to work morning
shifts (8am to 12pm / 9am to 1pm) as required. Applicants must be willing to
be flexible with workdays based on service requirements. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to work in a professional team. Post-internship
experience in general paediatrics under onsite supervision of a registered
paediatrician. Ability to achieve and maintain good interpersonal relations with
staff, patients and their families. Ability to provide a comprehensive paediatric
service to Allergy and clinical immunology patients Excellent report, clinical
note and referral writing skills. Experience with teamwork, planning, organizing
and coordination. Excellent interpersonal, administrative, communication,
analytical and problem-solving skills Display empathy for patients, promote
advocacy and facilitate holistic treatment. Good time management.
DUTIES : Provide a high-quality clinical service to patients and their families Expert
assessment and management at a tertiary health care level of a wide range of
problems of allergic conditions, including asthma, allergic rhinitis, eczema,
urticaria, drug allergy, food allergy and other rarer conditions. Conducting
specialist out-patient clinics in the Allergy Service at Red Cross War Memorial
Children’s Hospital. Participating in the teaching of undergraduate and post
graduate learners in allergy. Supervise junior medical staff to ensure quality of
202
care and good clinical outcomes. Interaction with (and supervision of where
necessary) nursing staff, allied professionals, and students. Informal teaching
and training of junior staff in the course of clinical work. Improve professional
competence by regular self-learning and reflection with the application of
current evidence.
ENQUIRIES : Prof M Levin Tel No: (021) 658-5305 or Email: michael.levin@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
POST 43/262 : CLEANER (SESSIONS) (25 SESSIONS)
Cape Winelands District
(Contract till 31 March 2026)
SALARY : R91.21 per hour
CENTRE : Brede Valley PHC, Brede Valley Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy. Experience: Appropriate
experience as a Cleaner in a health environment. Inherent requirement of the
job: Ability to lift/move heavy equipment and supplies and working at heights
requiring the use of a stepladder. The ability to do physical tasks, operate heavy
duty cleaning and household equipment. Rotate in different clinics according
to operational needs and requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to work effectively in a team, independently and unsupervised, to accept
accountability and responsibility. Ability to handle conflict and the ability to work
under pressure. Ability to operate machinery and equipment.
DUTIES : Responsible for cleaning, including sweeping, dusting, mopping, scrubbing,
polishing, refuse removal, cleaning of garbage bins daily, toilets, sluices and
drains, cleaning of windows and walls in the clinic. Ensure that cleaning
equipment are clean after usage and securely stored. Render assistance to the
supervisor with general housekeeping duties such as control of cleaning and
household equipment, care of linen and serving of patients. Adhere to safety
measures when handling waste. Attend in-service training appropriate to
service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. D Hartnick Tel No: (023) 348-1343
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within Breede Valley Sub District, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 05 December 2025
203