PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 10 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 14 MARCH 2025
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of
vacant posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is
not responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed
to the relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies,
knowledge and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department
in which the vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE
NEW Z83 WHICH IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15
(affirmative action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should
be applied. Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote
representativeness through the filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose
transfer/appointment will promote representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to
employment in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the
course please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENTS : DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONAL SERVICES: Kindly note the following
amendments were made in the Public Service Vacancy Circular 09 dated 07 March
2025: The closing date has been extended to 01 April 2025.
DEPARTMENT OF SPORT, ARTS AND CULTURE: Kindly note that the following
post of Parliamentary and Cabinet Support Officer was advertised in Public Service
Vacancy Circular 08 dated 28 February 2025, with Ref No: DSAC-11/02/2025. The
Centre for the post has been amended to Cape Town. The closing date has been
extended to 21 March 2025.
LIMPOPO: OFFICE OF THE PREMIER: Kindly note that the following three (3)
posts were advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 07 dated 21 February
2025, The closing date has been amended as follows (1) Head of Department:
Education (DoE) with Ref No: OTP/03/25/01; (2) Head of Department: Social
Development (DSD) with Ref No: OTP/03/25/02 and Head of Department:
Agriculture and Rural Development (DARD) with Ref No: OTP/03/25/03. The
closing date was 07 March 2025 and has been extended to the 20 March 2025.
2
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
DEFENCE A 04 - 07
HUMAN SETTLEMENTS B 08 - 10
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT C 11 - 14
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY D 15 - 24
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE E 25 - 37
PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE F 38 - 45
WATER AND SANITATION G 46 - 50
WOMEN, YOUTH AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES H 51 - 54
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
KWAZULU NATAL I 55 - 63
MPUMALANGA J 64 - 70
NORTH WEST K 71 - 74
WESTERN CAPE L 75 - 109
3
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025, (Applications received after the closing date and faxed
copies will not be considered).
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed form Z83 (obtainable
from any Public Service Department office i.e effective 01 January 2021
or on the DPSA web site link: https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/.
Should an application be received using incorrect application employment
form Z83, it will be disqualified, which must be originally signed and dated
by the applicant and which must be accompanied by a detailed CV only
(with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications,
competencies, knowledge & experience). Only shortlisted candidates will
be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other related
documents on or before the day of the interview which should not be older
than six months. Failure to comply with the above instructions will result
in applications being disqualified. Applicants applying for more than one
post must submit a separate form Z83 (as well as the documentation
mentioned above) in respect of each post being applied for. If an applicant
wishes to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing. Should an
application be received where an applicant applies for more than one post
on the same applications form, the application will only be considered for
the first post indicated on the application and not for any of the other posts.
Under no circumstances will photostat copies or faxed copies of
application documents be accepted. The successful candidates will be
subjected to Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship &
financial/asset record checks and qualification and employment
verification). Successful candidates will also be subjected to security
clearance processes. The level of appointments is dependent upon,
qualifications, relevant experience and research output. The shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to two (2) pre-entry assessments (practical
and ethical exercise) which will determine the candidate’s suitability.
Applicants who do not receive confirmation or feedback within 3 (three)
months after the closing date, please consider your application
unsuccessful. Due to the large volume of responses anticipated, receipt
of applications will not be acknowledged, and correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. For more information on the job
description(s) please contact the person indicated in the post details.
Successful candidates will be appointed on probation for the period of
twelve (12) months in terms of the prescribed rules.
OTHER POSTS
POST 10/01 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MEDICAL ADMINISTRATION:
COMPENSATION OCCUPATION INJURIES AND DISEASES ACT
(COIDA) REF NO: DHRMAINT/08/10/25
Chief Directorate Human Resource Management
Directorate: Human Resource Maintenance-Medical Administration
SALARY : R444 036 – R532 602 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bank of Lisbon Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF 4) or equivalent with National Diploma NQF 6 in
HRM/Public Administration with a minimum of three (3) to 5 (five) years’
experience in administration and supervisory roles. Special Requirements
(skills needed): Compensation Occupation Injuries and Diseases Act
(COIDA), Computer literate (MS Word, PowerPoint, how to access
Internet, MS Excel and mainframe). Good communication skills (verbal
and written) and customer orientation. Have supervisor’s experience.
4
Have excellent interpersonal and problem solving skills. Possession of
valid driver’s licence is recommended. The knowledge and understanding
of Compensation Occupation Injuries and Diseases Act (COIDA), Group
Life Insurance Scheme (GLIS) Policies and Medical administration
process for the regular force. Excellent telephone etiquette. Ability to
obtain a confidential security clearance within 12 months of being
appointed.
DUTIES : A successful candidate will be required to perform the following duties:
Administration of injuries and disease cases sustained by Defence Act
Personnel (DAP) and Public Service Act Personnel (PSAP) whilst on duty.
Administration of personnel losses and funerals and Group Life Insurance
Scheme (GLIS). Administration/ Approval of inclusion/re-inclusion of
dependants of Defence Act Personnel (DAP) for medical privileges.
Attend meetings as required. Inspection of all registers maintained by the
clerks. Compile and update post profiles and duty sheets for all post
incumbents on the structure of Medical Section. Assess and supervise
sub-ordinates’ performance with regard to strength and weaknesses in
order to recognize and reward good, and manage poor performance by
identifying relevant courses. Assist with career management with regard
to supporting and encouraging sub-ordinates to seek opportunities for
development and promotion and their nomination for courses. Nominate
all Medical Section’s staff for outstanding courses. Personal investigation
of critical enquiries and the drafting of draft replies for higher authority
signature. Complete bi-annual performance assessment for all
subordinates together with relevant reports.
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col D. Tshabalala Tel No: (012) 339 5333
APPILICATIONS : Department of Defence, Human Resources Management, Chief
Directorate HR Maintenance Medical section, Private Bag X976, Pretoria,
0001 or hand delivered at Department of Defence, Bank of Lisbon
Building, 400 Paul Kruger Street, Pretoria or email to:
Daniel.Tshabalala@dod.mil.za
NOTE : The Chief Directorate Human Resource Management (Directorate Human
Resource Maintenance) is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively (race, gender and
disability).
POST 10/02 : PERSONNEL OFFICIAL: RECRUITMENT REF NO:
DHRACQ/09/10/25/01
SALARY : R216 417 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : D HR Acquisition Regional Office, North West, Potchefstroom
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate (NQF Level 4 or equivalent). A recognised
qualification and experience in HR/administration will be an added
advantage. Special requirements (Skills needed): Language proficiency in
English (written and verbal). Typing skills, good communication skills.
Good interpersonal skill and organising skills. Knowledge in HR
Legislation policies, practices and procedures. Knowledge of MS Word,
Excel and Power Point. Ability to interpret or verify data on Persol system.
Demonstrate higher level of professionalism.
DUTIES : Distribute the Military Skills Development System (MSDS) application
forms during the recruitment process. Checking the competency of the
application forms. Registering of the application forms in the relevant
register book. Capturing of application forms on the PERSOL System.
Implement the recruitment plan and strategies as designed to fulfil the
SANDF mandate and goal. Communicate verbally and in writing with
Services, Division and broader public about recruitment related matters.
Coordinate and attend recruitment meetings. Attend to general enquiries
pertaining to recruitment within the department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A.P. Sepuru Tel No: (012) 339 5734/Ms T.H. Mothoagae Tel No:
(012) 339 5735.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Directorate Human Resource Acquisition, Private
Bag X976, Pretoria, 0001. May be hand delivered to Regional Office North
5
West, Army Support Base Recruitment Office, Corner Grobler Street
(R53) and Eleazer Road, Potchefstroom 2531. May be emailed to:
dhracq.northwest@gmail.com
POST 10/03 : PERSONNEL OFFICIAL: RECRUITMENT REF NO:
DHRACQ/09/10/25/02
SALARY : R216 417 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : D HR Acquisition Regional Office, Limpopo, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate (NQF Level 4 or equivalent). A recognised
qualification and experience in HR/administration will be an added
advantage. Special requirements (Skills needed): Language proficiency in
English (written and verbal). Typing skills, good communication skills.
Good interpersonal skill and organising skills. Knowledge in HR
Legislation policies, practices and procedures. Knowledge of MS Word,
Excel and Power Point. Ability to interpret or verify data on Persol system.
Demonstrate higher level of professionalism. Good interpersonal
relationship skills. Special requirements (Skills needed): Computer
competency in Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Power Point and Access).
Knowledge and an insight on Human Resource Legislation pertaining to
recruitment. Reasoning ability. Problem solving ability. Managerial skills.
Good interpersonal relationship skills. Ability to communicate verbally and
in writing.
DUTIES : Distribute the Military Skills Development System (MSDS) application
forms during the recruitment process. Checking the competency of the
application forms. Registering of the application forms in the relevant
register book. Capturing of application forms on the PERSOL System.
Implement the recruitment plan and strategies as designed to fulfil the
SANDF mandate and goal. Communicate verbally and in writing with
Services, Division and broader public about recruitment related matters.
Coordinate and attend recruitment meetings. Attend to general enquiries
pertaining to recruitment within the department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A.P. Sepuru Tel No: (012) 339 5734/Ms T.H. Mothoagae Tel No:
(012) 339 5735.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Directorate Human Resource Acquisition, Private
Bag X976, Pretoria, 0001. May be hand delivered to Regional Office
Limpopo D HR Acquisition, Army Support Base Polokwane Recruitment
Office, Gateway Drive (Next to Polokwane Airport), Polokwane, 0700.
May be emailed to: dhracq.limpopo@gmail.com
POST 10/04 : PERSONNEL OFFICIAL: RECRUITMENT REF NO:
DHRACQ/09/10/25/03
SALARY : R216 417 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : D HR Acquisition Regional Office, Free State, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate (NQF Level 4 or equivalent). A recognised
qualification and experience in HR/administration will be an added
advantage. Special requirements (Skills needed): Language proficiency in
English (written and verbal). Typing skills, good communication skills.
Good interpersonal skill and organising skills. Knowledge in HR
Legislation policies, practices and procedures. Knowledge of MS Word,
Excel and Power Point. Ability to interpret or verify data on Persol system.
Demonstrate higher level of professionalism. Good interpersonal
relationship skills. Special requirements (Skills needed): Computer
competency in Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Power Point and Access).
Knowledge and an insight on Human Resource Legislation pertaining to
recruitment. Reasoning ability. Problem solving ability. Managerial skills.
Good interpersonal relationship skills. Ability to communicate verbally and
in writing.
DUTIES : Distribute the Military Skills Development System (MSDS) application
forms during the recruitment process. Checking the competency of the
application forms. Registering of the application forms in the relevant
6
register book. Capturing of application forms on the PERSOL System.
Implement the recruitment plan and strategies as designed to fulfil the
SANDF mandate and goal. Communicate verbally and in writing with
Services, Division and broader public about recruitment related matters.
Coordinate and attend recruitment meetings. Attend to general enquiries
pertaining to recruitment within the department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A.P. Sepuru Tel No: (012) 339 5734/Ms T.H. Mothoagae Tel No:
(012) 339 5735.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Directorate Human Resource Acquisition, Private
Bag X976, Pretoria, 0001. May be hand delivered to Regional Office Free
State, Army Support Base Bloemfontein Recruitment Office, Pappa Brits
Street, Tempe, Bloemfontein, 9300. May be emailed to:
dhracq.freestate@gmail.com
7
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SETTLEMENTS
The Department of Human Settlements is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer. It is our
intention to promote representativity (race, gender & disability). The candidature of persons whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted to: The National Department of Human
Settlements, Private Bag X644, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-delivered to 260
Justice Mahomed Street, Sunnyside, Pretoria, 0001 or e-mail to
jobs@dhs.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025 at 16h00
NOTE : Please note that your personal information will be collected for the
purposes of the recruitment process only. By populating the Z83 form you
are consenting to the processing of your personal information. It will be
expected from the selected candidates to be available for the interviews
on a date, time and place as determined by the Department of Human
Settlements. Applicants must note that further checks will be conducted
once they are short-listed and that their appointment is subject to positive
outcomes on these checks, which include security clearance, qualification
verification and criminal records. If you apply for more than one position
in the Department, please submit separate application forms for each
post. Applications must be submitted on a new Z83 form, obtainable from
the Department of Public Service and Administration’s website or any
Public Service department and must be accompanied by a detailed CV.
Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of interview/s as directed by the Human Resources
representative. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Failure to submit the required documents will result in your
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to short-
listed candidates only. Please note that the all-inclusive remuneration
package consists of a basic salary, the state’s contribution to the
Government Employee’s Fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable
rules. As of 1st July 2006, all new appointments in the public service must
be part of the Government Employee Medical Scheme (GEMS) to qualify
for a Government Medical Subsidy. SMS posts: All shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant
technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be communicated
by the Department: Following the interview and technical exercise, the
selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment: The competency assessment will be testing
generic managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS
competency assessment tools. Prior to appointment, a candidate would
be required to complete the Nyukela Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to
Senior Management Services as endorsed by DPSA which is an online
course. The course is available on the NSG website under the name
Certificate for entry into the SMS and the full details can be sourced by
the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entry-programme. If you have not been contacted within four (4) months
after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. The Department of Human Settlements
reserves the right to cancel the filling/ not to fill a vacancy that was
advertised during any stage of the recruitment process.
8
OTHER POSTS
POST 10/05 : DEPUTY DIECTOR: SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS REF NO:
DOHS/22/2025
Branch: Director-General
Chief Directorate: Internal Audit, Risk Management and Special
Investigations
Directorate: Risk and Integrity Management
Sub-Directorate: Special Investigations
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive salary package.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Candidates must be in possession of a Gr 12 certificate, undergraduate
qualification (Diploma/Degree) in Law/ Policing / Forensic Investigations/
Auditing/ Criminology or any other relevant equivalent (NQF 6/7) as
recognized by SAQA. Registration with the Association of Certified Fraud
Examiners (ACFE) will be an added advantage. 3 -5 years’ experience at
entry level management (Assistant Director). Knowledge in forensic
investigations. Knowledge and understanding of legislation administered
by the Department such as Public Finance Management Act, Public
Administration Act and Regulations, Prevention and Combating of Corrupt
Activities Act, Protected Disclosure Act, Prevention of Organized Crime
Act, National Anti-Corruption strategy and Minimum Anti-Corruption
Capacity. Proficiency in verbal and written communication as well as
presentation skills. Policy analysis, formulation, and implementation skills.
Computer literacy and a valid driver’s license. The candidate will be
subjected to security vetting.
DUTIES : The appointee will be responsible for the following: Manage detection,
interventions, and reporting of corrupt activities in the Department and the
human settlements sector. Coordinate the detection and analysis on
existing and emerging trends of fraud and corruption within the human
settlements sector and report on findings thereof with recommendations.
Coordinate conducting of reviews for detection of fraud on payment of staff
Subsistence and Travel claims, supplier invoices on BAS (and other
internal fraud, corruption and maladministration matter) within the
Department and report on findings thereof recommendations. Coordinate
conducting of investigations of corruption on human settlements related
matters. Coordinate conducting of investigations on report allegations and
incidents on unethical conduct, fraud, corruption and maladministration in
the Department, and report on findings thereof with recommendations.
Coordinate provision of support and assistance to law enforcement
agencies in investigating allegations and reported cases of fraud,
corruption, and maladministration within the human settlements sector.
Coordinate maintenance of strategic stakeholder partnerships on the
investigations of Human Settlements related matters: Establish and
maintain relationships with relevant internal and external stakeholders in
investigating allegations and cases of fraud, corruption, and
maladministration. Provide support to Provinces, Metros, and human
settlements entities with investigations on allegations and reported cases
of human settlements related fraud, corruption, and maladministration.
Manage resources allocated to the Sub-Directorate: Provide any ad hoc
assistance in the administration of the Directorate including budget,
acquisition plan and procurement plan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Manyama Tel No: (012) 444-9118
NOTE : Male candidates and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 10/06 : PARTLIAMENT AND CABINET SUPPORT OFFICER REF NO:
DOHS/23/2025
Re-advert, Candidates who previously apply, need not re-apply.
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive salary package.
CENTRE : Pretoria
9
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/ Grade 12 or equivalent, undergraduate Diploma/ Degree in Public
Administration/ Management or any other relevant qualification (NQF level
6/7 as recognized by SAQA). 3 – 5 years’ experience at entry level
management (Assistant Director/ Middle management level). Knowledge
of Ministry operations will be an added advantage. Computer Literacy as
well as good communication skills (both written and verbal) is essential.
Proven management competencies. Broad knowledge and understanding
of the functional areas covered by the Minister’s portfolio. Working
knowledge of the political and parliamentary process in South Africa.
Proven Policy analysis and development experience. In addition,
applicants must have good planning, resource management skills, be a
team player, able to work under pressure and be willing to travel.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for: Monitoring events in the
Parliament/ the legislature to identify matters that have a bearing on the
portfolio of the Minister. Monitor events in Cabinet/ Executive Council to
identify matters that have a bearing on the portfolio of the Minister. Render
an efficient and effective Parliament service. Co-ordinate and control
movements between the Pretoria and Cape Town Offices and
Parliamentary sessions (where applicable). Knowledge of the relevant
Public Service and departmental prescripts/ policies and other documents
to ensure that the application thereof is understood correctly.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Manyama Tel No: (012) 444-9118
NOTE : Female candidates and People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 10/07 : ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT AND CO-ORDINATION OFFICER REF
NO: DOHS/24/2024
Re-advertisement, Candidates who previously apply, need not re-apply.
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive salary package.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/ Grade 12 or equivalent, undergraduate Diploma/ Degree in Public
Administration/ Management or any other relevant qualification (NQF level
6/7 as recognized by SAQA). 3 – 5 years’ experience at entry level
management (Assistant Director / Middle management level). Knowledge
of Ministry operations will be an added advantage. Computer Literacy as
well as good communication skills (both written and verbal) is essential.
Broad knowledge and understanding of the functional areas covered by
the Minister’s portfolio. Working knowledge of the political and
parliamentary process in South Africa. Proven Policy analysis and
development experience. In addition, applicants must have good
planning, resource management skills, be a team player, able to work
under pressure and be willing to travel.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for: Managing the
administrative and co-ordination activities within the office of the executive
authority. Liaising with internal and external role players with regard to
matters relating to the portfolio of the executive authority. Render a
Cabinet/executive council support service to the executive authority.
Supervise employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Manyama Tel No: (012) 444-9118
NOTE : Female candidates and People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
10
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
NOTE : Obtainable using Microsoft edge or the latest Chrome version or
alternatively the address specified in each post. The application must
include only completed and signed new Form Z83, obtainable from any
Public Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za, and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity Document, Senior
Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as a driver’s
license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted candidates
to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that do not
comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for
submission. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign
qualifications. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected
to a technical and competency assessment. A pre-entry certificate
obtained from National School of Government (NSG) is required before
appointment for all SMS positions. Candidate will complete a financial
disclosure form and also be required to undergo a security clearance.
Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must provide the Police Clearance
certificate from country of origin only when shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is
an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts the objectives
of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108
of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as defined by the
Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into
consideration. Reasonable accommodation shall be applied for People
with Disabilities including where driver’s license is a requirement.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do
not hear from us within 3 months of this advertisement, please accept that
your application has been unsuccessful. The department reserves the
right not to fill these positions. Women and people with disabilities are
encouraged to apply and preference will be given to the EE Target.
OTHER POSTS
POST 10/08 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTERPRETING SERVICES REF NO: 25/30/CA
SALARY : R849 702 – R1 000 908 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package).
The successful candidate will be required to sign a performance
agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification (NQF level 6)/ Degree as recognized by
SAQA in Legal Interpreting & Translation/ Language Practice/ BA in
Language/ Journalist or Linguistics; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in
Court Interpreting environment at management (Assistant Director) level;
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service, Financial Management and regulatory
framework/guidelines, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
Treasury Regulations, Departmental Financial Instructions, Public
Finance Management Act; Knowledge of Criminal, Civil and Family law
cases, Constitutional law cases, Court Operations. Skills and
Competencies: Applied strategic thinking; Applied technology; Budgeting
and financial management; Communication and information
management; Continuous improvement; Diversity management; Impact
and influence; Conflict management Planning and organising; Problem
solving and decision making; Project management; Computer literacy.
11
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Coordinate and manage court interpreting
services; Coordinate and manage the court interpreting services
Stakeholders; Coordinate and monitor the implementation of court
interpreting policies; Coordinate operational efficiency of court
interpreting; Manage human, financial and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. MD. Modibane Tel No: (012) 315 1668
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resources: Department of Justice and
Constitutional Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 or Physical
address: Application Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum
Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria.
POST 10/09 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MAINTENANCE SERVICES REF NO: 25/29/CA
SALARY : R849 702 – R1 000 908 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package).
The successful candidate will be required to sign a performance
agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification NQF level 7 in LLB Degree/ B Proc/ B Com
Law or B Juris; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in Administrative Law/
Civil Law/Criminal law within Justice System at management (Assistant
Director) level; Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service; Financial Management and regulatory
framework/guidelines, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
Treasury Regulations, Departmental Financial Instructions, Public
Finance Management Act; Knowledge and understanding of the
Constitutional law cases; Criminal, Civil and family cases, Court
Operations, Children’s Act and Maintenance Act; A valid driver’s license.
Skills and Competencies: Applied strategic thinking; Applied technology;
Budgeting and financial management; Communication and information
management; Continuous improvement; Diversity management; Impact
and influence; Conflict management; Planning and organising; Problem
solving and decision making; Project management; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Facilitate and develop the implementation of
Maintenance Services policy, procedure and framework; Facilitate the
monitoring and evaluation on implementation of maintenance services
procedures; Manage stakeholder relations; Manage human, finance and
other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M.D Modibane Tel No: (012) 315 1668
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resources: Department of Justice and
Constitutional Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 or Physical
address: Application Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum
Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria.
POST 10/10 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CRIMINAL ASSETS RECOVERY ACCOUNT
(CARA) AND PRESIDENT’S FUND REF NO: 25/25/FMS
SALARY : R444 036 – R523 056 per annum. The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 in Financial Management/Accounting as recognized by
SAQA; A minimum of 3 years relevant experience in Financial
environment at supervisory level; Knowledge and understanding of
Prevention of Organised Crime Act (POCA), Public Finance Management
Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations. Skills and Competencies:
Computer literacy (MS Word, PowerPoint, Outlook, Excel); Budgeting and
financial management; Concern for others; Change management;
Creative thinking; Service Delivery Innovation (SDI); Problem solving and
analysis; People management and empowerment; Client orientation and
customer focus; Communication; Honesty and integrity; Presentation and
facilitation skills.
12
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Administer allocated monies and property as
actioned by Cabinet; Monitor allocated monies to ensure effective use of
monies; Prepare annual reports and financial statements for the CARA
account and President’s Fund; Liaise with officials from other
Departments regarding proposed decisions of the CARA Committee;
Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A van Roos Tel No: (012) 315 1094
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resource: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 or Physical Address:
Application Box, First Floor, Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building,
329 Pretorius Building, Pretoria, 0001
POST 10/11 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: GUARDIAN’S FUND REF NO: 25/31/FMS
SALARY : R444 036 – R523 056 per annum. The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An (NQF level 7) in Financial Management/Financial Accounting as
recognized by SAQA; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in a Financial
Management/Accounting environment at supervisory level; Knowledge
and understanding of the Contract Management framework, Policy
Development; Supply Chain Management contract management
practices and National Treasury Regulations. Skills and Competencies:
Applied strategic thinking; Applied technology; Budgeting and financial
management; Communication and information management; Citizen
focus and responsiveness; Diversity Management; Impact and influence;
Managing interpersonal conflict and resolving problems; Planning and
organizing; Decision making; Project management; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide accounting and technical oversight
support; Facilitate system development and processes; Draft Financial
Statements and Annual Report that are aligned to Generally Recognised
Accounting Practice (GRAP). Perform general management
(administration) functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A Van Ross Tel No: (012) 315 1094
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resource: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 or Physical Address:
Application Box, First Floor, Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building,
329 Pretorius Building, Pretoria, 0001
POST 10/12 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: 24/94/LD
SALARY : R308 154 – R362 994 per annum. The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 5 in Secretarial Diploma or equivalent qualification of a legal
nature will be an advantage; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in
rendering a support service to Senior Management; Knowledge of
financial, provisioning and Human Resource administration procedures
and processes; Knowledge of relevant Public Service and Departmental
legislation/prescripts/policies and procedures; Knowledge of Office
Management; Knowledge of document tracking, storage and retrieval.
Skills and Competencies: Communication (verbal and written);
Organising skills; Computer skills; Presentation skills; Problem solving
and interpersonal relations; Ability to correctly interpret relevant
documentation; Ability to do research and analyse documents;
Intermediate typing skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provides a secretarial/receptionist support
service to the Deputy Director-General (Manager); Provides a clerical
support service to the Manager; Render administrative support services;
Provide support to manager regarding meetings; Provide budget
13
administrative support; Remains up to date with regard to
prescripts/policies and procedures applicable to the work terrain to ensure
efficient and effective support to the manage.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Sema Tel No: (012) 315 1333
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
Address: The Human Resource: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 or Physical Address:
Application Box, First Floor, Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building,
329 Pretorius Building, Pretoria.
14
ANNEXURE D
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY
The NPA is an equal opportunity employer. People with disabilities will be given preference and are
encouraged to apply. In the filling of vacancies, the objectives of Section 195(1)(i) of the Constitution
of the Republic of South Africa,1996, and in particular the Employment Equity Act,1998 (Act 55 of
1998) and the NPA Employment Equity Strategy 2022-2026, will take highest preference in selection
of suitable candidates.
APPLICATIONS : All applications must be submitted to the relevant Recruitment Response
E mails stated below.
CLOSING DATE : 01 April 2025
NOTE : Applicants must apply by submitting applications on the most recent Z83
form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA web
site link: https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ and a comprehensive
CV ONLY (with detailed experience information). Failure to do so will
result in your application being disqualified. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents on or before the day of the interview following
communication from Human Resources. Foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by SAQA (only when
shortlisted). It is the applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign
qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such evaluation
(only when shortlisted). Handwritten Z83 must be completed in BLOCK
LETTERS. If the Z83 is not completed as prescribed your application will
not be accepted. All applications must reach the NPA on/or before the
closing date. No late applications will be accepted/processed. Documents
should not be password protected and ZIP files will be blocked. The NPA
cannot be held responsible for server delays. All applications must reach
the NPA on/or before the closing date. No late applications will be
accepted/processed. The applicant’s attention is drawn to the fact that the
NPA uses an Electronic Response Handling System in terms of e-mailed
applications. Please DO NOT contact the NPA directly after you have e-
mailed your applications to enquire if your application(s) have been
received. If you have not received an acknowledgement of receipt within
one week after the closing date, then you can contact the NPA. The NPA
reserves the right not to fill any particular position. If you do not hear from
us within (6) six months from the closing date of the advert, please accept
that your application was unsuccessful. Successful candidates will be
subjected to a security clearance of at least confidential. Appointment to
this position will be provisional, pending the issue of security clearance.
Fingerprints will be taken on the day of the interview. The social media
accounts of shortlisted applicants may be accessed as part of the
verification process. A valid driver’s license will be a requirement where
applicable. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments which are, a practical exercise and an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment. SMS posts will be subjected to a technical
exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the
logistics of which will be communicated by the NPA. Following the
interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency-based
assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will test generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. A Pre-entry
certificate obtained from the National School of Government (NSG) is
required for all SMS applicants for Public Service Act positions in the NPA
(SMS pre-entry certificate to be submitted prior to appointment). NPA Act
appointments are exempted from the pre-entry certificate requirement.
This is a Public Service specific training programme. The name of the
course is Certificate for entry into the SMS. The full details can be sourced
from the link https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
15
programme/..Applicants are advised that from 1 January 2021 a new
application form for employment (Z83) is in use. The new application for
employment form can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies.
From 1 January 2021 should an application be received using the
incorrect (old) application for employment (Z83), it will not be considered.
NB: Applicants who are successful must please note that the NPA is not
in a position to pay resettlement costs. NB: All employees considered for
appointment to the Investigating Directorate Against Corruption will be
subject to a lifestyle audit and integrity vetting.
OTHER POSTS
POST 10/13 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 132 806 – R1 762 857 per annum (LP-9), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Pretoria Ref No: Recruit 2025/77
DPP: Mthatha Ref No: Recruit 2025/78 (Re-advert)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in
civil and/or criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998.
Five(5) years’ experience in legal practice will be an added advantage.
Strong interpersonal and communication skills. Decision making ability.
Computer literacy and knowledge of programs in MS Office.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
Represent the State in all courts. Prepare cases for court, including the
acquisition of additional evidence and draft charge sheets, indictments
and court documents. Present the State’s case in court, lead and cross
examine witnesses, address the court on, inter alia, conviction and
sentence. Attend to representations, prepare opinions and head of
arguments and argue cases in appropriate court. Appear in court in motion
application pertaining to criminal matters and in general conduct
prosecution on behalf of the state. Perform all duties related thereto in
accordance with the code of conduct policy and directives of the NPA.
Mentor and coach junior staff and quality check their work. Participate in
the performance assessment of staff being mentored.
ENQUIRIES : DPP: Pretoria Godfrey Ramakuela Tel No: (012) 351 6808
DPP: Mthatha Tulisa Sibindlana Tel No: (047) 501 2669
APPLICATIONS : DPP: Pretoria e mail: Recruit202577@npa.gov.za
DPP: Mthatha e mail: Recruit202578@npa.gov.za
POST 10/14 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE (ENVIRONMENTAL CRIME) REF NO:
RECRUIT 2025/79
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 132 806 – R1 762 857 per annum (LP-9), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Limpopo
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in
civil and/or criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998.
Five(5) years’ experience in legal practice will be an added advantage.
Knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Experience or knowledge in
environmental cases will be an added advantage. Ability to act
independently. Strong interpersonal and communication skills. Decision
making ability. Computer literacy and knowledge of programs in MS
Office.
16
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
Represent the State in all courts. Prepare cases for court, including the
acquisition of additional evidence and draft charge sheets, indictments
and court documents. Present the State’s case in court, lead and cross
examine witnesses, address the court on, inter alia, conviction and
sentence. Attend to representations, prepare opinions and head of
arguments and argue cases in appropriate court. Appear in court in motion
application pertaining to criminal matters and in general conduct
prosecution on behalf of the state. Perform all duties related thereto in
accordance with the code of conduct policy and directives of the NPA.
Mentor and coach junior staff and quality check their work. Participate in
the performance assessment of staff being mentored.
ENQUIRIES : Thuba Thubakgale Tel No: (015) 045 0285
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit202579@npa.gov.za
POST 10/15 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/80 (X2 POSTS)
Sexual Offences Community Affairs
SALARY : R1 132 806 – R1 762 857 per annum (LP-9), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight years post qualification legal experience. Right
of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of
1998. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. An appropriate legal qualification, as
prescribed by the minister of DOJ&CD in terms of section 16(3) of the
National Prosecution Authority Act no 32 of 1998. Extensive experience
in criminal and civil litigation as well as advocacy. Knowledge & expertise
of the GBVF mandate of the SOCA unit in the areas of Child Justice,
Sexual Offences, Maintenance, Trafficking in Persons, Domestic Violence
& all other GBV matters generally is required. Positive security clearance.
A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Manage the portfolios allocated to you by the Special Director. Develop
initiatives & interventions to improve the NPA’s management of GBVF at
all levels. Ensure National implementation of all GBVF initiatives &
interventions. Attend to all Representations related specifically to the
GBVF mandate as allocated by the SDPP. Research, develop & review
training material & implement training for all prosecutors and external
stakeholders on the GBVF mandate. Keep abreast with all National &
International GBVF legislation, case law (reported & unreported),
Protocols, and Research & trends & Develop Legal Opinions, directives,
training modules thereto. Ensure dissemination of aforementioned
information nationally. Manage, mentor & guide prosecutors, where
required, on the GBVF mandate. Render advice on matters relating to
GBVF generally. Provide Senior Management with legal opinions on
parliamentary reports & enquiries as & when required. Participate in the
development & amendment of current legislation on GBVF matters as &
when required. Design, develop & maintain an accurate data
management system relating to the civil & criminal aspects of GBVF
matters. Analyse trends based on the statistics & develop interventions to
be implemented with the approval of senior management. Develop, review
and participate in the drafting of policies, procedures and related
legislation in line with the SOCA mandate. Design, facilitate & implement
ongoing Public Awareness campaigns in respect of GBVF campaigns
generally. Promote partner integration, community involvement and
customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice
system. Formalise ongoing Stakeholder Cooperation & engagement in
respect of GBVF generally. Create & participate in GBVF fora provincially
& nationally. Implement Performance Management in terms of the NPA
policies. Institute and conduct criminal proceedings on behalf of the State,
to perform any act incidental thereto and to carry out the duties and
17
functions assigned to the prosecution under any Act and/or the Policy
Manual and/or any directives, inter alia, study case dockets, decide on the
institution of and conduct criminal proceedings, including proceedings of
an advanced or complex nature as & when requested by the SDPP. Study
appeals and reviews, prepare opinions and heads of argument and argue
GBVF cases as instructed by the SDPP. Perform all duties, including
administrative and those assigned to by a duly delegated authority, in
accordance with the Code of Conduct, policy and directives of the Public
Service & the National Prosecuting Authority. Perform other duties and
activities as requested by the SDPP in line with SOCA unit’s mandate.
Available to travel extensively when required.
ENQUIRIES : Sandra Reddy Tel No: (012) 845 6670
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit202580@npa.gov.za
POST 10/16 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/81
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R1 132 806 – R1 762 857 per annum (LP-9), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in
civil and/or criminal litigation. Admission as advocate or attorney will be
an added advantage. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. High level of
proficiency in prosecuting and presenting/arguing cases in court.
Experience in guiding criminal investigations and giving instructions in law
and statutory offences. Knowledge of asset forfeiture law. Interpersonal
skills. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Good advocacy,
well developed skills in legal research and legal drafting skills. Strong
computer skills and knowledge of programs in MS Word, Excel, Outlook
and PowerPoint. Written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work
independently. Willing to travel. Able to work extended hours.
DUTIES : Conduct prosecution of serious, complex and organised crime cases and
corruption matters. Advise the police on the investigation of serious,
complex organised crime cases and other matters. Conduct legal
research and keep up to date with legal developments. Draft charge
sheets and other court documents and represent the State in all courts.
Draft heads of arguments and argue appeals. Present cases in court, lead
witnesses, cross examine and address the court on conviction and
sentence. Appear in motion proceedings and also do appeals and
reviews. Generally, conduct prosecution on behalf of the State. Manage
performance of junior staff.
ENQUIRIES : Bonakele Jali Tel No: (012) 845 6395
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit202581@npa.gov.za
POST 10/17 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/82
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R1 132 806 – R1 762 857 per annum (LP-9), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Limpopo
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in
civil and/or criminal litigation. Admission as advocate or attorney will be
an added advantage. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. High level of
proficiency in prosecuting and presenting/arguing cases in court.
Experience in guiding criminal investigations and giving instructions in law
and statutory offences. Knowledge of asset forfeiture law. Interpersonal
skills. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Good advocacy,
well developed skills in legal research and legal drafting skills. Knowledge
18
of PFMA, MFMA and money laundering matters. Strong computer skills
and knowledge of programs in MS Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint.
Written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work independently.
Valid drivers licence.
DUTIES : Conduct prosecution of serious, complex and organised crime cases and
corruption matters. Advise the police on the investigation of serious,
complex organised crime cases and other matters. Conduct legal
research and keep up to date with legal developments. Draft charge
sheets and other court documents and represent the State in all courts.
Draft heads of arguments and argue appeals. Present cases in court, lead
witnesses, cross examine and address the court on conviction and
sentence. Appear in motion proceedings and also do appeals and
reviews. Generally, conduct prosecution on behalf of the State. Manage
performance of junior staff.
ENQUIRIES : Thuba Thubakgale Tel No: (015) 045 0285
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit202582@npa.gov.za
POST 10/18 : REGIONAL COURT CONTROL PROSECUTOR REF NO: RECRUIT
2025/83
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R979 059 - R1 588 383 per annum (Level SU-3), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : CPP: Odi (Mogwase)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least six (6) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Good management skills. Must have the
ability to act independently or within minimum supervision. Proficiency in
prosecuting, guiding investigation and giving instructions in complex or
more difficult common law and statutory offences in Regional and District
Court. Draft complex charge sheets and complex court documents. Good
management skills. Must manage, give guidance and train prosecutors.
DUTIES : Manage, train and give guidance to and train prosecutors. Study case
dockets, decide on the institution of and conduct criminal proceedings.
Maintenance matters and inquest of a general and more advanced nature
in the Regional and District Court. Prepare cases for court and draft
charge sheets and other proceedings for court. Present and assist
prosecutors to present the State’s case in court, to lead witnesses, cross
examine and address the court on inter alia, conviction and sentence, and
in general to conduct prosecutions on behalf of the State. Perform all
duties related thereto in accordance with the code of conduct, policy and
directives of the NPA. Assist the Senior Public Prosecutor with the
performance assessment of staff. Perform general administrative duties
of the office. Promote partner integration, community involvement and
customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice
system.
ENQUIRIES : Flora Kalakgosi Tel No: (018) 381 9041
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit202583@npa.gov.za
POST 10/19 : STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/84 (X2 POSTS)
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R884 268 - R1 459 071 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (Total cost
package)
CENTRE : DPP: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the
NPA Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’ post qualification legal
experience. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Well-developed skills in
legal research and legal drafting. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal
procedure. Proficiency in prosecution, competency in guiding
19
investigations, drafting charge sheets, indictments and court documents
and dealing with representations. Knowledge of and skills in general
prosecution. High level of proficiency in prosecuting and
presenting/arguing cases in court. Experience in guiding criminal
investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory offences.
Interpersonal skills. Written and verbal communication skills. Ability to
work independently with minimum supervision.
DUTIES : Study and guide the investigations in case dockets. Decide on the
institution of and conduct criminal proceedings. Draft charge sheets,
indictments and other court documents. Represent the State in all courts.
Prepare a case for court, including the acquisition of additional evidence
and draft charge sheets and indictments. Present the State’s case in
court, lead and cross examine witnesses, address the court on, inter alia,
conviction and sentence, study appeal and reviews. Attend to
representations, prepare opinions and heads of arguments and argue
cases in the appropriate court. Appear in court in motion application
pertaining to criminal matters and in general conduct prosecution on
behalf of the state. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with
the code of conduct policy and directives of the NPA. Promote partner
integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Godfrey Ramakuela Tel No: (012) 351 6808
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit202584@npa.gov.za
POST 10/20 : STATE ADVOCATE (STU) REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/85
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R884 268 - R1 459 071 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (Total cost
package)
CENTRE : DPP: Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the
NPA Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’ post qualification legal
experience. At least five (5) years relevant criminal court work experience
in advocacy and drafting. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility.
Extensive prosecutorial or litigation experience with regard to common law
offences such as fraud, theft, forgery and uttering, commercial crimes and
related matters. Proficiency in prosecuting, guiding investigations in
complex or more difficult matters, including commercial matters. Drafting
charge sheets, indictments and court documents, dealing with
representations. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets, make assessments thereof and decide on the
institution of prosecution. Deal with any representations. Guide
investigations in complex or more difficult tax matters, including
commercial matters. Prepare cases for court, including the acquisition of
additional evidence and draft charge sheets, indictments and court
documents. Present the State’s case in court, lead and cross examine
witnesses, address the court on inter alia, conviction and sentence.
Manage court and case flow management of cases independently. Study
and deal with appeals and reviews. Prepare opinions and heads of
argument for complex matters and argue cases in the appropriate court.
Appear in court in motion application pertaining to criminal matters and
general conduct prosecutions on behalf of the state. Mentor and guide
investigating officers, prosecutors and stakeholders. Assist in keeping
proper records, statistics and reports. Assist in high profile tax matters or
matters where an increased risk element is present. Manage any portfolio
assigned by the Deputy Director managing the STU. Consult on a regular
basis with all the relevant stakeholders, including SARS officials. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Tulisa Sibindlana Tel No: (047) 501 2669
20
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit202585@npa.gov.za
POST 10/21 : STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/86 (X2 POSTS)
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R884 268 - R1 459 071 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (Total cost
package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the
NPA Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’ post qualification legal
experience. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Well-developed skills in
legal research and legal drafting. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal
procedure. Proficiency in prosecution, competency in guiding
investigations, drafting charge sheets, indictments and court documents
and dealing with representations. Knowledge of and skills in general
prosecution. Good interpersonal, analytical, organisational and
communication skills. Ability to act independently or with minimum
supervision. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
Represent the State in all courts. Prepare a case for court, including the
acquisition of additional evidence, lead and cross examine witnesses,
address the court on inter alia, conviction and sentence. Study and deal
with appeals and reviews, attend to representations, prepare opinions and
heads of arguments. Conduct prosecution of serious, complex and
organised commercial crime and corruption matters. Appear in court in
motion applications pertaining to criminal matters and in general conduct
prosecution on behalf of the state. Perform all duties related thereto in
accordance with the code of conduct policy and directives of the NPA.
Identify and refer matters to AFU.
ENQUIRIES : Thuba Thubakgale Tel No: (015) 045 0285
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit202586@npa.gov.za
POST 10/22 : STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/87
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R884 268 - R1 459 071 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (Total cost
package)
CENTRE : DDPP: Durban (OCC)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the
NPA Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’ post qualification legal
experience. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. High level of proficiency
in prosecuting and presenting/arguing cases in court. Experience in
guiding criminal investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory
offences. Interpersonal skills. Knowledge of and or experience in the
litigation of the Prevention of Organised Crime Act (POCA) matters.
Written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Study and guide the investigations in case dockets. Decide on the
institution of and conduct criminal proceedings. Draft charge sheets,
indictments and other court documents. Represent the State in all courts.
Prepare a case for court, including the acquisition of additional evidence
and draft charge sheets and indictments. Present the State’s case in
court, lead and cross examine witnesses, address the court on, inter alia,
conviction and sentence, study appeal and reviews. Attend to
representations, prepare opinions and heads of arguments and argue
cases in the appropriate court. Appear in court in motion application
pertaining to criminal matters and in general conduct prosecution on
behalf of the state. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with
21
the code of conduct policy and directives of the NPA. Promote partner
integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Phiwayinkosi Nhlengethwa Tel No: (031) 334 5003
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit202587@npa.gov.za
POST 10/23 : STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/88
National Prosecutions Service
(Re-advert)
SALARY : R884 268 - R1 459 071 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (Total cost
package)
CENTRE : CPP: Ntuzuma
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the
NPA Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’ post qualification legal
experience in prosecution in Criminal and/or civil litigation. In depth and
extensive knowledge of the law and management in respect of Sexual
offences, Domestic Violence, Child Offenders and Trafficking in Person,
Maintenance matters. Demonstrate skill in community engagements and
consultation on criminal justice matters is critical. Extensive computer
skills will be an advantage. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of
appearance under any of the applicable laws or ability to obtain the right
of appearance in terms of the said laws. Positive security clearance. Valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Assist in prosecuting complex sexual offences in the Sexual Offences
Court. Tracking, monitoring and facilitation of cases through the Criminal
Justice System. Assist in managing the court rolls at specialist hybrid court
for Thuthuzela Care Centre reported cases and other sexual offences.
Secure the attendance of witnesses, investigating officers and accused in
custody at court. Ensure a reduction of turnaround time in the finalisation
of cases to nine (9) months as per unit’s strategy. Responsible for
prosecutor guided investigators of Thuthuzela Care Centre reported
cases and other related sexual offences matters. Help improve functional
relationships. Constant follow up with the relevant stake holders. Help
increase the conviction rate. Perform other duties and activities as
requested by Provincial Manager or Head of Unit. Assist in the setting up
of Thuthuzela Care Centre and maintain the functioning thereof.
Supervise, train and develop relevant role players including prosecutors
and police. Institute and conduct criminal proceedings on behalf of the
State. Perform any act incidental thereto and carry out the duties and
functions assigned to the prosecutor under any act and/or Policy Manual.
Study case dockets, make assessments thereof and decide on the
institution prosecution. Prepare cases for court, including the acquisition
of additional evidence and draft charge sheets, indictments and court
documents. Present the State’s case in court, lead and cross examine
witnesses, address the court on, inter alia, conviction and sentence.
ENQUIRIES : Phiwayinkosi Nhlengethwa Tel No: (031) 334 5003
APPLICATIONS : e-mail Recruit202588@npa.gov.za
POST 10/24 : REGIONAL COURT PROSECUTOR
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R597 753 - R1 374 714 per annum (Level LP-5 to LP-6), (excluding
benefits), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : CPP: Odi (Rustenburg) Ref No: Recruit 2025/89
CPP: Odi (Mogwase) Ref No: Recruit 2025/90
CPP: Mthatha Ref No: Recruit 2025/91
CPP: Mthatha (Bizana) Ref No: Recruit 2025/ 105
CPP: Mthatha (Bityi) Ref No: Recruit 2025/106
CPP: Pietermaritzburg Ref No: Recruit 2025/92
22
CPP: Polokwane (Lenyenye) Ref No: Recruit 2025/93
CPP: Modimolle Ref No: Recruit 2025/94
CPP: Polokwane Ref No: Recruit 2025/95
CPP: Polokwane(Tzaneen) Ref No: Recruit 2025/96
CPP: Port Shepstone (Ixopo) Ref No: Recruit 2025/97
CPP: Port Shepstone (Kokstad) Ref No: Recruit 2025/98
CPP: Ntuzuma (Verulam) Ref No: Recruit 2025/99
CPP: Ntuzuma (Pinetown) Ref No: Recruit 2025/100
CPP: Durban Ref No: Recruit 2025/101
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least four (4) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. The incumbent must have the ability to
act independently or with minimum supervision. Proficiency in
prosecuting. Experience in guiding investigations and giving instructions
in law and statutory offences in Regional court. Good interpersonal skills.
Good analytical skills. Good presentation skills. Good project
management skills. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets and other documents and represent the
State in all courts. Lead witnesses, cross-examine and address the court
on inter alia, conviction and sentence and in general to conduct
prosecutions on behalf of the state. Perform general administrative duties
of the office. Promote partner integration, community involvement and
customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice
system. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the Code of
Conduct, Policy, and Directives of the National Prosecuting Authority.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Odi (Rustenburg) & CPP: Odi (Mogwase) Flora Kalakgosi Tel No:
(018) 381 9041
CPP: Mthatha; CPP: Mthatha (Bizana) & CPP: Mthatha (Bityi) Tulisa
Sindlana Tel No: (047) 501 2669
CPP: Pietermaritzburg, Thabsile Radebe Tel No: (033) 392 8753
CPP: Polokwane (Lenyenye); CPP: Polokwane; CPP: Polokwane
(Tzaneen) & CPP: Modimolle, Thuba Thubakgale Tel No: (015) 045 0285
CPP: Port Shepstone (Ixopo); CPP: Port Shepstone (Kokstad); CPP:
Ntuzuma (Verulam); CPP: Ntuzuma (Pinetown) & CPP: Durban
Phiwayinkosi Nhlengethwa Tel No: (031) 334 5003
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Odi (Rustenburg) e-mail:Recruit202589@npa.gov.za
CPP: Odi (Mogwase) e-mail: Recruit202590@npa.gov.za
CPP: Mthatha e-mail: Recruit202591@npa.gov.za
CPP: Pietermaritzburg e-mail:Recruit202592@npa.gov.za
CPP: Polokwane (Lenyenye) e-mail:Recruit202593@npa.gov.za
CPP: Modimolle e-mail:Recruit202594@npa.gov.za
CPP: Polokwane e-mail:Recruit202595@npa.gov.za
CPP: Polokwane(Tzaneen) e-mail:Recruit202596@npa.gov.za
CPP: Port Shepstone (Ixopo) e-mail:Recruit202597@npa.gov.za
CPP: Port Shepstone (Kokstad) e-mail:Recruit202598@npa.gov.za
CPP: Ntuzuma (Verulam) e-mail:Recruit202599@npa.gov.za
CPP: Ntuzuma (Pinetown) e-mail:Recruit2025100@npa.gov.za
CPP: Durban e-mail:Recruit2025101@npa.gov.za
CPP: Mthatha (Bizana) e-mail:Recruit2025105@npa.gov.za
CPP: Mthatha (Bityi) e-mail:Recruit2025106@npa.gov.za
POST 10/25 : DISTRICT COURT CONTROL PROSECUTOR
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R597 753 - R1 374 714 per annum (Level SU-1 to SU-2), (excluding
benefits), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : CPP: Mthatha (Ntabankulu) Ref No: Recruit 2025/102 (Re-advert)
CPP: East London Ref No: Recruit 2025/103
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least four (4) years post qualification legal experience.
23
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently. Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Good management skills. Proficiency in
prosecuting, guiding investigations and giving instructions in reasonably
complex or more difficult common law and statutory offenses in the District
Court. Ability to draft charge sheets and complex court documents. Good
administration skills. Good management skills. Organisational skills.
Ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Manage, train and give guidance to Prosecutors. Study court dockets and
decide on the institution of and conduct criminal, proceedings of a general
and more advanced nature in both District and Regional Court. Prepare
cases for court and draft charge sheets and other proceedings for the
court. Present and assist Prosecutors to present the State’s case in court,
to lead witness, cross-examine and address the court on, inter alia,
conviction and sentence and in general conduct prosecutions on behalf of
the State. Perform all duties related thereof in accordance with the Code
of Conduct, Policy and Directives of the National Prosecuting Authority.
Assist the Senior Public Prosecutor with the performance assessment of
staff. Perform general administrative duties of the office. Promote partner
integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the justice system.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Mthatha (Ntabankulu) Tulisa Sibindlana Tel No: (047) 501 2669
CPP: East London Talita Raga Tel No: (040) 608 6800
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Mthatha (Ntabankulu) e-mail: Recruit2025102@npa.gov.za
CPP: East London e-mail: Recruit2025103@npa.gov.za
POST 10/26 : HEAD CONTROL PROSECUTOR 2 REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/104
National Prosecutions Service
Re-advert
SALARY : R597 753 - R1 374 714 per annum (Level SU-1 to SU-2), (excluding
benefits), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : CPP: Nelspruit (Mhala)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least four (4) years’ post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Proficiency in prosecuting, guiding
investigation and giving instructions in reasonably complex or more
difficult common law and statutory offences in the lower courts.
Proficiently drafting complex charge sheets and other complex court
documents. Must be able to act independently without constant
supervision and manage court and case flow independently. Good
management and administrative skills. General computer literacy with
excellent knowledge of Ms Word, PowerPoint, Excel ad Outlook. High
level of reliability. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Ability to identify
and handle confidential matters. Knowledge of relevant legislations,
policies, prescripts and procedures applicable in the public sector.
DUTIES : Manage, train, and give guidance to prosecutors. Study case dockets,
decide on the institution of and conduct criminal proceedings.
Maintenance matters and inquest of a general and more advanced nature
in the Regional Court and District Court. Prepare cases for court and draft
charge sheets and other proceedings for court, present and assist
prosecutors to present the State’s case in court, to lead witnesses, cross
examine and address the court on inter-alia, conviction, and sentence,
and in general to conduct prosecutions on behalf of the State. Perform all
duties related thereto in accordance with the Code of Conduct, Policy, and
Directives of the National Prosecuting Authority. Assist the Senior Public
Prosecutor with the performance assessment of staff. Manage, control
and attend to the administration of the office of the District Court. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice.
ENQUIRIES : Tebogo Mashile Tel No: (013) 045 0686
APPLICATIONS : e mail Recruit2025104@npa.gov.za
24
ANNEXURE E
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given
to Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office: Midrand/Constitutional Court: Quoting the relevant
reference number, direct your application to: The Director: Human
Resources, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X10, Marshalltown,
2107 or hand deliver applications to the Office of the Chief Justice, Human
Resource Management, 188, 14th Road, Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685.
Free State/Supreme Court of Appeal: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief
Justice, Private Bag X20612, Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand deliver
applications to the Free State High Court, Corner President Brand and
Fontein Street, Bloemfontein, 9301
Mpumalanga: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head: Office of the Chief Justice, Private
Bag X20051, Mbombela, 1211. Applications can also be hand delivered
to, Mpumalanga Division of the High Court, Office of the Chief Justice
Provincial Service Centre, 311 Samora Machel Drive, Mbombela, 1200.
Gauteng/Land Court/Pretoria/Johannesburg: Quoting the relevant
reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office
of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X7, Johannesburg, 2000. Applications
can also be hand delivered to the 12th floor, Cnr Pritchard and Kruis
Street, Johannesburg.
KwaZulu Natal, Durban/Pietermaritzburg: Quoting the relevant
reference number, direct your application to: Application can also be hand
delivered to Office of the Chief Justice, Human Resource Management,
1st Floor, CNR Somtseu & Stalwart, Simelane Streets, Durban, 4000.
North-West: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The OCJ Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735. Applications can also be hand
delivered to 22 Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mafikeng.
CLOSING DATE : 04 April 2025
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public
Service Department and should be accompanied by a recent
comprehensive CV only; contactable referees (telephone numbers and
email addresses must be indicated). Please send your documents in a
PDF and put them in one folder. Only shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other related
documents on or before the day of the interview following communication
from Human Resources. Each application form must be fully completed,
duly signed and initialed on both pages by the applicant. The application
must indicate the correct job title, the office where the position is
advertised and the reference number as stated in the advert. Failure by
the applicant to fully complete, sign and initial the application form will lead
to 40 disqualification of the application during the selection process.
Applications on the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should
you be in a possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied
by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Dual citizenship holders must provide the Police Clearance
certificate from the country of origin (when shortlisted all non - SA Citizens
will be required to submit a copy of proof of South African permanent
25
residence). Applications that do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements will not be considered. Suitable candidates will be subjected
to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, financial checks,
qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference checks and
employment verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months
after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to
make any appointment(s) to the advertised post(s). Applicants who do not
comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications
received late, will not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested
documents will result in the application not being considered during the
selection process. All shortlisted candidates for Senior Management
Service (SMS) posts will be subjected to a technical competency exercise
that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of
which will be communicated by the Department. Following the interview
and technical exercise, the selection committee will recommend
candidates to attend generic managerial competencies using the
mandated Department of Public Service and Administration (DPSA) SMS
competency assessment tools. Applicants could be required to provide
consent for access to their social media accounts. One of the minimum
entry requirements to the Senior Management Service is the Nyukela
Public Service SMS Pre-entry Programme (certificate) which is an online
course, endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG). For more
details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-pre-entry-programme. The
successful candidate will be required to complete such prior to
appointment. All successful candidates will be expected to enter into an
employment contract and a performance agreement within 3 months of
appointment, as well as be required to undergo a security clearance three
(3) months after appointment. The Office the Chief Justice complies with
the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA); Act
No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided to us for the
purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose of the
position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application
was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal
information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for
recruitment purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render
your application null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will
safeguard the security and confidentiality of all information you shared
during the recruitment process.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the post of Deputy Director: Information
Security with Ref No: 2025/19/OCJ advertised on Public Service Vacancy
Circular 09 dated 07 March2025 with a closing date 25 March 2025 has
been withdrawn. Apologies for any inconvenience caused.
MANAGAMENT ECHELON
POST 10/27 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: JUDICIAL EDUCATION SUPPORT REF NO:
2025/48/OCJ
SALARY : R1 436 022 - R1 716 933 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package),
consisting of 70% basic salary and 30% flexible portion that may be
structured in terms of the applicable rules. The successful candidate will
be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand (South African Judicial Education Institute)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate and a three-year Bachelor’s degree (NQF Level 7) in
Law, Management or Education at NQF level 7 or a post graduate diploma
in Law, Management or Education at NQF level 7 as recognized by SAQA.
A minimum of five (5) years’ working experience at senior management
level. Experience in management, legal, practice or academia.
26
Experience in the training environment. A valid driver’s license.
Knowledge of SAJEI Act and other relevant legislation. Knowledge of
online training platforms. Knowledge of the work of Judicial officers.
Knowledge of research methodologies. Ability to liaise with local and
international stakeholders. Good understanding of departmental
prescripts and frameworks, (e.g. departmental codes). Understanding of
legislation governing Court procedures, processes and policies. Skills and
Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership. Programme and
Project Management. Financial Management. Change Management.
Problem Solving and Analysis. People management and Empowerment.
Excellent skills in report writing. Advanced Computer Literacy (Excel,
Word and PowerPoint). Ability to operate/interface with technical systems.
Interpersonal skills. Organisational skills. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method
to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and
generic requirements.
DUTIES : Provide technical support to the CEO in fulfilling functions of the Institute
as listed in section 5 of the SAJEI Act. Ensure seamless implementation
of the Corporate Governance calendar. Lead and monitor the effective
implementation of the annual research agenda. Ensure timeous
achievement of quality research outputs. Ensure submission of
performance information reports to the CEO in compliance with applicable
prescripts and policies. Coordinate and monitor material development and
review. Manage effective implementation of annual training schedules.
Monitor compliance with prescripts applicable to Human resources,
Financial and Risk management. Facilitate the development and
implementation of SAJEI’s Performance and operational plans.
ENQUIRIES : Technical related enquiries: Dr G Moshoeu Tel No: (010) 493 2616
HR related enquiries: Ms LP Mpe/Mr SW Mekoa Tel No: (010) 493 2500
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/46/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
OTHER POSTS
POST 10/28 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATION REF NO: 2025/29/OCJ
SALARY : R849 702 – R1 000 908 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package. The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Constitutional Court: Braamfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate and an LLB degree or four (4) years recognised legal
qualification as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years
relevant legal experience. At least in research A minimum of three (3)
years research experience of which three years’ must be at Junior
Management level (ASD level). A minimum of three (3) years supervisory
experience in a legal environment. A valid driver’s license. BA/BCom Law
degree will serve as an advantage. Skills and Competencies: Proficiency
in English. Good communication skills (verbal and written). Administration
and organizational skills. Exceptional interpersonal skills. Budgeting and
financial management, Problem solving Ability to meet strict deadlines and
to work under pressure. Attention to detail. Customer service skills and
excellent typing skills including dictaphone typing. Confidential and time
management. Computer literacy (MS Word) and research capabilities.
Willingness to work outside normal working hours. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Lead and manage the transformation within the office. Encourage an
effective and efficient performing culture for Law Clerks. Provide overall
leadership by ensuring coordination as well effective functioning of the
unit. Develop and implement best practices, policies, procedures and
internal control systems. Facilitate the recruitment and selection of Law
27
Clerks program. Ensure drafting and placement of the advert. Ensure the
development and quality assurance of the master list. Ensure timeous
distribution to the Law Clerks Committee. Facilitate shortlisting and
interview process in consultation with the Justices. Ensure that personnel
suitability checks and verification of qualifications for recommended
candidates are conducted. Oversee the administration of Practice
Directions issued by the Chief Justice. Ensure compliance with court
processes and rules of the Constitutional Court. Ensure and support case
flow management after consultation with general office. Ensure proper
and effective communication with Director Court Operations. Modernise
research methodologies and/or technologies and ensure relevant
research material is at all times available. Disseminate relevant
information to the Law Clerks. Ensure implementation of training and
development initiatives of Law Clerks within the Constitutional Court.
Ensure the provision of orientation and induction programs within the unit.
Facilitate and coordinate training courses or programs for the law clerks
in consultation with the Law Clerk Committee. Ensure the development
Programme are implemented effectively. Conduct skills audit and
consolidate training needs. Conduct briefing and feedback sessions of the
law clerks Programme. Supervise and Develop Law Clerks. Ensure
general supervision of Law Clerks. Allocate duties and perform quality
control on the work delivered by officials. Develop and manage the
monthly leave plan and reporting. Advise and lead supervisees with
regard to all aspects of the work. Manage performance, conduct and
discipline of employees. Ensure that all employees are trained and
developed to be able to deliver work of the required standard efficiently
and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms. Z Sondlo Tel No: (011) 359 7400/7458
HR enquiries: Ms K Mokgatlhe Tel No: (011) 359 7400/ 7574
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/29/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 10/29 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: 2025/30/OCJ
SALARY : R376 413 - R443 403 per annum (Level 08). The successful candidate will
be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Land Court: Randburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 and three years (03) National Diploma in Public Administration
/ Administrative Management / Public Management/ equivalent
qualification at (NQF level 6). A minimum of two (2) years’ experience in
administration field and valid driver’s license. Knowledge of Risk
Management, Security, Facility and OHS will serve as added advantage.
All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as
part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability
based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Provide support to the senior managers with daily clerical tasks. Keep up
breast with the leave administration for the office. Provide support with the
compilation of monthly, quarterly reports and annual corporate calendar.
Prepare meeting agenda and attendance register Collate monthly and
quarterly reports. Monitor meetings attendance by Governance
Committees members. Respond to the queries of stakeholders. Ensure
general supervision of employees. Allocate duties and perform quality
control on the work delivered by officials. Manage leave of staff. Advise
and lead supervisees with regard to all aspects of the work. Manage
performance, conduct and discipline of employees. Ensure that all
employees are trained and developed to be able to deliver work of the
required standard efficiently and effectively. Develop, implement and
monitor work systems and processes to ensure efficient and effective
functioning. Formulate administration policies. Review office policies and
procedures Update existing protocols and office policies. Communication
skills (verbal & written), Problem solving skills, Good public relations skills,
28
Monitoring and analytical skills. Computer Literacy skills (MS Teams),
Planning and organizing skills, Report writing skills and Typing skills.
Knowledge of Understanding and experience of logistical arrangements
required for the effective functioning of governance structures, Knowledge
of clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate
computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge of the MS Office package,
with experience in word processing, Outlook, Power Point and Excel
Knowledge of Office Administration. Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing Public Service and knowledge of Batho
Pele principles. Manage and Monitor financial system i.e. JYP, JDAS, BAS
etc. Ensure compliance with the PFMA and Financial standard. Verify S&T
claims and Trip Authority for correctness before submission for approval.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms N Mhlambi Tel No: (010) 493 6316
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/30/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 10/30 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2025/31/OCJ (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R308 154 - R362 994 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will
be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Supreme Court of Appeal: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. A minimum of one-year secretarial experience. A valid driver’s
license. An LLB degree or a minimum of 20 modules completed towards
an LLB, BA Law or BCom Law degree will serve as an added advantage
(results must accompany the application). Secretarial experience in a
legal/court environment will serve as an added advantage. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to pass a typing test. Skills and Competencies:
Proficiency in English. Good communication skills (verbal and written).
Administration and organizational skills. Exceptional interpersonal skills.
Ability to meet strict deadlines and to work under pressure. Attention to
detail. Customer service skills. Excellent typing skills. Computer literacy
(MS Office). Research capabilities. Confidentiality and time management.
All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as
part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability
based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Provide general secretarial/administrative duties to the judge. Typing (or
formatting) of draft memoranda decisions, opinions or judgment entries
written by, or assigned by the judge. Manage and type correspondence,
judgments and orders for the judge (including Dictaphone typing). Arrange
and diarise appointments, meetings and official visits. Make travel and
accommodation arrangements. Store, keep and safeguard all case files
and update the case files with the order made by the judge. Update files
and documents and provide copies of documents to the registrar. Perform
digital recording of court proceedings on urgent cases after hours and
ensure the integrity of such recordings. Accompany the judge to court.
Manage the judge’s vehicle, logbook and the driving thereof. Compile data
and prepare reports and documents for the judge as necessary including
expense reports, financial disclosure statements and case management.
Arrange refreshments for the judge and his/her visitors and attend to their
needs. Manage the judge’s library and the updating of documentation.
Execute legal research as directed by the judge and comply with all
departmental prescripts, policies, procedures and guidelines.
ENQUIRIES : Technical related enquiries: Ms s. Collins Tel No: (051) 492 4623
HR related enquiries: Ms N. de la Rey Tel No: (051) 492 4523
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/31/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
29
POST 10/31 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2025/32/OCJ
SALARY : R308 154 - R362 994 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will
be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : North-West High Court: Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate. One (1) to three (3) years’ secretarial experience or as
an office assistant in a legal environment. A valid driver’s license. An LLB
degree or a minimum of 20 modules completed towards an LLB,
BA/BCom Law degree will serve as an added advantage and results must
accompany the application. Shortlisted candidates will be required to pass
a typing test and shall undertake pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment. Skills and Competencies: Proficiency in English. Good
communication skills (verbal and written). Administration and
organizational skills. Exceptional interpersonal skills. Ability to meet strict
deadlines and to work under pressure. Attention to detail. Customer
service skills and excellent typing skills including Dictaphone typing.
Confidentiality and time management. Computer literacy (MS Word) and
research capabilities. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-
entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine
the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements.
DUTIES : Typing (or formatting) of draft memorandum decisions, opinions or
judgment entries written by or assigned by the judge. Provide general
secretarial/administrative duties to the judge. Manage and type
correspondence, judgments and orders for the judge (including
Dictaphone typing). Arrange and diarize appointments, meetings and
official visits and make travel and accommodation arrangements.
Safeguarding of all case files and the endorsement of case files with an
order made by the judge. Update files and documents and provide copies
of documents to the Registrar. Perform digital recording of court
proceedings on urgent court applications (after hours) and circuit court,
and ensure integrity of such recordings. Store, keep and file court records
safely. After a case has been completed and the opinion, decision or
judgment entry released, return case file to the Registrar. Accompany the
judge to the court and circuit courts. Cooperate with judges, supervisors
and co-workers as necessary to ensure the smooth and efficient operation
of the court. Management of the judge’s vehicle, logbook and driving
thereof. Compile data and prepare reports and documents for assigned
judges as necessary including expense reports, continuing legal hours,
financial disclosure statements and case management. Arrange reception
for the Judge and his/her visitors and attend to their needs. Management
of the Judge’s library and updating of loose-leaf publications. Will be
required to work with other Judges should there be a need. Capture
statistics, Execute legal research as directed by the Judge and comply
with Departmental prescripts, policies, procedures and guidelines.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Mr O Sebapatso Tel No: (018) 397 7064/ 7000
HR related enquiries: Ms KE Zwane Tel No: (018) 397 7114/ 7064
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/32/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 10/32 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2025/33/OCJ
SALARY : R308 154 - R362 994 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will
be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal Local Division High Court: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Grade twelve (12), one (1) to three (3) years’ Secretarial experience or as
an Office Assistant, a valid driver’s license, an LLB Degree or a minimum
of 20 modules completed towards an LLB, BA or Bachelor Law Degree
will serve as an added advantage and results must accompany the
application, shortlisted candidates will be required to pass a typing test.
Skills and Competencies: Proficiency in English. Good communication
30
skills (verbal and written). Administration and organizational skills.
Exceptional interpersonal skills, ability to meet strict deadlines and to work
under pressure, attention to details, customer care service skills and
excellent typing skills, confidentiality and time management. Computer
literacy (MS Word) and research capabilities All shortlisted candidates
shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment
method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's
technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Provide general secretarial/administrative duties to the Judge. Typing (or
format) of draft memorandum decision, opinions or judgement entries
written by or assigned by Judge. Provide general
secretarial/administrative duties to the Judge. Manage and type
correspondence, judgements and orders for the Judge (including
dictaphone typing). Arrange and diarize appointments, meetings and
official visits and make travel and accommodation arrangements.
Safeguarding of all case files and the endorsement of case files with an
order made by Judge. Update files and documents and provide copies of
documents to the Registrar. Perform digital recording of court proceedings
on urgent court cases after hours or on circuit court and ensure integrity
of such recordings. Store, keep and file court records safely. Accompany
the Judge to the court. Compile court statistics daily. Management of
Judge’s vehicle, logbook and driving thereof. Compile data and prepare
reports and documents for assigned Judges as necessary; including
expense reports, continuing legal hours, financial disclosure statements
and case management. Arrange refreshments for the Judge and his or her
visitors and attend to their needs. Management of Judge’s library and
updating of documentation. Execute legal research as directed by the
Judge and comply with departmental prescripts, policies, procedures and
guidelines.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms K Marais Tel No: (031) 492 5562
HR enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493 1723
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/33/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 10/33 : SENIOR HUMAN RESOURCE OFFICER REF NO: 2025/34/OCJ
SALARY : R308 154 - R362 994 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will
be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Service Centre
REQUIREMENTS : A three (3) years’ Degree or National Diploma in HRM. At least three (3)
years functional experience in Human Resource Management within the
Public Service. Extensive knowledge of PERSAL system. (Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit PERSAL certificates/results). A valid
code B drivers’ license. Supervisory experience in HR will be an added
advantage. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy, knowledge of the
relevant Human Resource Management Legislation/ Directives,
knowledge of PERSAL system. Good communication skills (written and
verbal), good interpersonal and public relation skills, good administration
and organizational skills. Customer Service Skills, time management and
confidentiality. Supervisory and leadership skills. Ability to work under
pressure. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Supervise, plan, and coordinate the activities of the HR Officers to
contribute to the rendering of a professional human resource
management service eg, Personnel development, Performance
management , Discipline and ensure quality of work, supervise the
implementation and maintenance of human resource administration
practices concerning service benefits(Leave, Housing, medical Aid, Injury
on duty, termination, long service recognition, overtime, relocation,
pension, allowances, secretariat function on interviews, absorption,
31
probation reports, Human Resource management practices, inform guide
and advice the implementation of HR Management practices, approve
transactions on PERSAL according to delegations. Prepare reports on
Human Administration issues and statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Technical/HR enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493 1723
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/34/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 10/34 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ASSETS REF NO: 2025/35/OCJ
SALARY : R216 417 - R254 928 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will
be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate with no experience required or a three-year tertiary
qualification (NQF level 6) as recognized by SAQA in Financial
Accounting/ Financial Management/Internal Auditing/ Cost and
Management Accounting. A minimum of 1 - 2 years working experience in
Asset Management will be an added advantage. A valid driver ‘s license.
Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Treasury Regulations, National Treasury Asset Management
Framework, Modified Cash Accounting Standards. Knowledge of the
procurement directives and procedures. Computer literacy.
Communication skills, both written and verbal. Ability to work in a team.
Planning and organizing skills. Independent and focused. Problem
solving, decision making, and Innovative. Willingness to travel is essential.
All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as
part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability
based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Conduct asset verification for departmental owned and leased assets.
Regular update of the Asset register and lease register. Barcode newly
acquired assets. Quarterly reconciliation of asset verified against the
asset register. Reconcile the asset expenditure against the assets
register. Maintain the register for new asset additions. Update the lease
register with newly concluded contracts or extended ones. Facilitate the
disposal of unserviceable, redundant, obsolete and lost Maintain a
register for all lost assets supported by relevant supporting documents.
Assist in resolving audit queries and ensure completeness and accuracy
of the asset register. Assist with leased assets & disposal related
enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries, Mr P Mahumane Tel No: (010) 493 2646
HR related enquiries, Ms S Tshidino Tel No: (010) 493 8771
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/35/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 10/35 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: LEGAL REF NO: 2025/36/OCJ
SALARY : R216 417 - R254 928 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will
be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Service Centre, (Stationed at Pietermaritzburg)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate or equivalent qualification, An LLB Degree or an
equivalent qualification will serve as an added advantage. A minimum of
one (1)) year’ experience will serve as an added advantage Skills and
Competencies: Knowledge of Public Services Legislation, Prescripts and
Regulations. Research skills communication skills (verbal and written).
Minute taking skills. Decision making and time, management skills. Good
reporting skills. Creative and analytical thinking skills. Computer literacy.
All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as
part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability
based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
32
DUTIES : Conduct Legal Research for the Regional Court President/Chief
Magistrate Provide Administrative functions to the Chief Magistrate.
Compilation of statistics. Case Flow management. Assisting Regional
Court Registrar and members of the public. Provide administrative support
in general as requested by the Court Manager and supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : HR related enquiries: Ms N Naidoo / Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493
1723
Technical related enquiries: Mr M Zondi Tel No: (034) 492 0269 /034 492
0288
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/36/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 10/36 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (DCRS) REF NO: 2025/37/OCJ
SALARY : R216 417 - R254 928 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will
be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Matric Certificate or equivalent qualification; Computer Certificate (MS
Office). Good Communication skill (written and Verbal) Good
Administration and Organizational skills; Customer service skills and
ability to work under pressure; good interpersonal and public relations
skills; The following will serve as an added advantage: Experience in
general administration or Court related functions with regard to court
recordings and/or case flow management and a valid driver’s license. The
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a typing test or a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment methods to determine the candidate’s
suitability based on the post technical and generic requirements. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as
part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability
based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Operate the recording machine and recording of court proceedings ensure
integrity of such documents. Preparing and setting up the recording
machine and make sure that the recording machine is on before court
starts, make sure that the microphones is functioning properly. Provide
administrative support in circuit courts. Collecting statistics. Report
malfunctions on the machines; Make sure the voices are audible; Export
Cases. Keep record of all requests made transcriptions. Provide
administrative support in general on court performance and case flow
management.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms T Nzimande Tel No: (010)494 9238
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/37/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 10/37 : CUSTOMER SERVICE OFFICER REF NO: 2025/38/OCJ
SALARY : R216 417 - R254 928 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will
be required to sign a performance agreement
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade twelve (12) or NQF Level 4 qualification, the following will service
as an added advantage, a three (3) year National Diploma and a minimum
of 6 Months / Call Centre/Customer Enquiries. Skills and Competencies.
Public Service Regulations 2016, data capturing, Communication Skills,
Customer focused, Telephone etiquette, Computer literacy (Excel, Word
and PowerPoint), Ability to perform under pressure, Excellent
interpersonal skills, Ability to work independently. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements.
33
DUTIES : Render switchboard services. Maintain and control visitor register at the
Court front desk. Provide access to the daily Court roll. Provide client
liaison services within the office.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms R Bramdaw Tel No: (010) 494 8486
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/38/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 10/38 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: 2025/39/OCJ
SALARY : R216 417 - R254 928 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will
be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal Division of the High Court: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, computer literacy and experience in Clerical/ administration
functions will be an added advantage. Skills and Competencies: Good
communication skills (written and verbal), good interpersonal and public
relations skills, good administration and organizational skills and customer
service skills and ability to work under pressure. All shortlisted candidates
shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment
method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's
technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Render efficient and effective support services to the court, assist the
Registrar with compilation of Court rolls (Opposed Motion and Trails
Rolls), allocation of dates in a court diary for the various rolls. Checking
court files for compliance of the Practice Directive before dates are
allocated, accepting of filing for the matters on the roll and attending to the
filing in court files, assisting litigants and in person litigants with drawing
of their files under the court rolls dates for perusal and indexing prior to
closing the roll. Advising and guiding litigants on the process to obtain
dates on the rolls, closing and publishing of gte court roll. Facilitating and
processing requests for preference via the Judge President’s Office. Co-
ordinating of the dairy in respect of the various roll with the JP’s office to
ensure that there are sufficient Judges/Courts. Updating of spreadsheets
and collating of statistics.
ENQUIRIES : HR related enquiries: Ms N Naidoo / Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493
1723
Technical related enquiries: Mr M Zondi Tel No: (034) 492 0269 /034 492
0288
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/39/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 10/39 : REGISTRAR’S CLERK REF NO: 202/40/OCJ
SALARY : R216 417 – R254 928 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate
will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal Division of the High Court: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Matric Certificate or equivalent qualification. A minimum of one year’
relevant experience will be an added advantage. Understanding of appeal
process and petition procedures will be an added advantage. Appropriate
experience in general administration or court related functions will serve
as an added 24 advantage. A valid driver’s license will be an added
advantage. Understanding of confidentiality in Government. Skills and
Competencies: Good administration and organising skills. Excellent
communication skills (written and verbal). Computer literacy (MS Office)
Good interpersonal and public relation skills. Ability to work under
pressure and solve problems. Numerical skills. Attention to detail and
Customer service skills orientated. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method
to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and
generic requirements. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-
34
entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine
the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements.
DUTIES : Rendering effective and efficient case flow management support service
to the Court. Attend to all stakeholders’ enquiries and correspondences.
Ensure proper filing and safekeeping of all court records. Proper
Administration of all appeal and petition processes. Ensuring proper
receipt, processing, Administration and filing of all appeals and applicants
for Leave to appeal. Perform general administrative duties
ENQUIRIES : Technical/HR enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493 1723
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/46/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 10/40 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (DCRS) REF NO: 2025/41/OCJ
SALARY : R216 417 - R254 928 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will
be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : North-West Division of The High Court
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate or equivalent qualification. A minimum of one-year
relevant experience will be an added advantage. A valid Driver’s license.
Skills and Competencies: Job Knowledge. Good Communication skills
(verbal and written). Interpersonal relations skills. Flexibility. Team work.
Planning and organization skills. Computer literacy (MS Office). All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as
part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability
based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Perform digital recording of court proceedings locally and at circuit courts,
and ensure integrity of such documents. Maintenance of criminal record
books and charge sheets, writing and tracing of summonses and writing
of witness fees book. Completion and issuing of committal warrant of
arrest. Provide administrative support in general court and case flow
management. Completion of case documents (charge sheet) and other
court documents. Document scanning and data capturing. Provide any
other administrative support as required by the judiciary, court manager
and or supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Mr O Sebapatso Tel No: (018) 397 7064/ 7000
HR related enquiries: Ms KE Zwane Tel No: (018) 397 7114/ 7064
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/40/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 10/41 : DATA CAPTURER REF NO: 2025/42/OCJ (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R183 279 - R215 892 per annum. The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade twelve (12) or NQF Level 4 qualification, Computer literacy
knowledge of clerical duties and understanding of legal framework
governing the public service. Skills and competencies. Good
communication skills (written and verbal) Good interpersonal relations,
customer service, interpersonal skills, Problem solving skills. Customer
service and attention to detail. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a
pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and
generic requirements.
DUTIES : Provide administration support services Capture and update data from
available records into the required formats e.g. databases, table and
spreadsheet, Validate and review data (for quality purposes) to ensure
correctness, completeness and consistency, Compile spreadsheets, and
update routine statistics information/ reports and registers, Receive,
register and track records or documents submitted for further processing.
35
Capture routine transactions on computer such as the transfer of
information from manual records to electronic records, Continuous
updating of information on computer for reporting purposes and retrieving
information required Make regular backups of data, ensure records and
files are properly sorted and secured, Provide information to the
component.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Mr D Ramanyai Tel No: (010) 494 8489
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/41/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 10/42 : ASSISTANT LIBRARIAN REF NO: 2025/43/OCJ
SALARY : R183 279 – R215 892 per annum (Level 04) The successful candidate will
be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade (12). Skills and Competencies Good written and oral
communication skills. Computer literacy (Microsoft office). Customer
services skills. Interpersonal relations skills. Planning skills. Organising
and control. Able to work under pressure. Ability to multi-task. Problem
solving skills. Good interpersonal relations. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method
to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and
generic requirements.
DUTIES : Assist with management and control of Library and its resources in line
with the library code and other applicable prescripts. Assist with ordering
of library material approved by the library committee. Assist in classifying,
cataloguing and indexing library material. Update loose-leaf publications.
Conducting information searches on the electronic catalogue and other
information databases and online informational retrieval resources.
Upload received judgments on the Central Case Law Repository. Collect
and deliver books from/to judge’s chambers. Assist with shelving of
publications and shelve reading. Conduct asset verification on library
books. Attend to queries relating to asset verification. Process received
standing orders and mail. Co-ordinate and prepare binding of all journals
and law reports. Update and manage library registers. Operate library
machines. Assist with compiling of reports on library matters.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms L Madisha Tel No: (010) 494 8466
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted via email at 2025/42/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity
POST 10/43 : TYPIST REF NO: 2025/44/OCJ
SALARY : R183 279 - R215 892 per annum (Level 04). The successful candidate will
be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate or equivalent qualification. A minimum typing speed of 35
wpm. Shortlisted candidates will be required to pass a typing test. A valid
Driver’s license will serve as an advantage. Skills and Competencies
Computer literacy (MS Word). Good communication skills (written and
verbal). Good interpersonal relations, planning and organization skills.
Good problem solving skills. Accuracy and attention to details. Ability to
work under pressure. Good time keeping. Telephone etiquette. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as
part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability
based on the post's technical and generic requirements. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements.
36
DUTIES : Typing of appeals, reviews, reports, minutes, circulars, notice of set
downs, witness statements, taxing master reports, affidavits,
memorandums and court orders. Relief administrative personnel where
necessary. Filling, opening files and making appointments. Dealing with
public queries and other administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Technical/HR related enquires: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/43/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 10/44 : USHER MESSENGER (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R155 148 - R182 757 per annum (Level 03). The successful candidate will
be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of the High Court: Johannesburg Ref No: 2025/ 45/OCJ
Land Court: Randburg Ref No: 2025/46/OCJ
REQUIREMENTS : Grade (10) (AET/ABET Level 2 certificate).). Skills and competencies,
Computer literacy and basic software (outlook, Excel and word) Good
Communication skills (written and verbal) Good interpersonal relations,
customer service, interpersonal skills, conflict Management, work ethic,
and motivation, Professional appearance and conduct Self-Management.
All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as
part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability
based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Render efficient and effective support to the court. Collecting and
delivering documents from or addressed to Judge and the Chief Registrar.
Collecting, delivering and distributing post and documents within the court
building. Processing of electronic court files. Assist in court when needed.
Render assistance to witness and public when needed. Ushering visitors
within the Office of the Registrars.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms R Bramdaw Tel No: (010) 494 8486
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/44/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 10/45 : HANDYMAN REF NO: 2025/47/OCJ
SALARY : R155 148 - R182 757 per annum (Level 03) The successful candidate will
be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of High Court, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade twelve (12) and qualification in plumbing, electrical or carpentry will
be added as advantage. Skill and competencies, occupational Health and
Safety Act, Knowledge on how to operate hand and power tools,
knowledge of building infrastructure layouts, Computer literacy and basic
software (outlook, Excel and word) Behavioural competences,
Communication skills, Team participation, Reliability innovative. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as
part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability
based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Executive minor general building maintenance, attend to minor plumbing
electrical, capacity and handyman, conduct routine weekly and monthly
inspections of the building, Report unauthorized movement of equipment,
Report deliberate damage to property and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms R Bramdaw Tel No: (010) 494 8486
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/45/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity.
37
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The Department of Public Works and Infrastructure is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. The intention is to promote representatively in the Public Service through the filling of
these posts and with persons whose appointment will promote representatively, will receive
preference. An indication by candidates in this regard will facilitate the processing of applications. If
no suitable candidates from the unrepresented groups can be recruited, candidates from the
represented groups will be considered. People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
CLOSING DATE : 04 April 2025 at 16H00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed Z83 application form
(obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA website
link: https:/www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/, which must be signed,
initialled and dated by the applicant, and must be accompanied by a
detailed curriculum vitae (CV) only. Candidates are not required to submit
certified copies of qualifications and related documents on application.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualification and other related documents on or before the date of
interview, which should not be older than six months. Should an
application be submitted using incorrect/old Z83 application form, such an
application will be disqualified. Further take note of the following on
completion of Z83 application form: PART A and PART B must be fully
completed. PART C - PART G: Noting that there is a limited space
provided applicants may refer to CV or indicate. This will be acceptable
as long as the CV has been attached and provides the required
information. Page 1 of the Z83 application form must be initialled and page
2 signed and dated by the applicant. Failure to comply with the above
instructions may result in an application being disqualified. Applicants
applying for more than one advertised post must submit separate Z83
application forms and CVs in respect to each post being applied for.
Should an application be received where an applicant has applied for
more than one posts on the same Z83 application form, the applicant will
be considered for the first post indicated on the Z83 application form only.
Applications will be received via post/courier services, hand deliveries or
email. Late applications will not be considered. Regulation 57 (c) and 67
(9) of the Public Service Regulations 2016, as amended, requires the
executive authority to ensure that he or she is fully satisfied of the claims
being made and the finalisation of Personnel Suitability Checks in order
to verify claims and check the candidate for purpose of being fit and proper
for employment, respectively. Shortlisted candidates must be willing to
undergo normal vetting and verification processes. Note: It is the
responsibility of all applicants to ensure that foreign qualifications are
evaluated by SAQA. Due to large volume of responses anticipated, receipt
of applications will not be acknowledged, and correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. Should you not have heard from us
within three months from the closing date, please regard your application
as unsuccessful. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms of the
Directive on Human Resource Management and Development on Public
Service Professionalisation Volume 1 a requirement for appointment into
SMS posts is the successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-
Entry programme as endorsed by the National School of Governance
(NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for
entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below
link: https:www.thensg.gov.za/training –course /sms-pre-entry
programme/.Note: For emailed applications, please submit a Single
document or One Attachment per application to the email address
designated for the specific position. Kindly note that the emailed
applications and attachments should not exceed 15MB. It remains the
38
candidate’s responsibility to ensure that their application is successfully
submitted.
OTHER POSTS
POST 10/46 : CHIEF ENGINEER: ELECTRICAL (GRADE A) REF NO: 2025/01
SALARY : R1 200 426 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to
be structured in accordance with the rules of the OSD)
CENTRE : Gqeberha Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : An Engineering Degree (B Engineering / BSc Engineering) or relevant
qualification, six (6) years’ post qualification experience required as a
Professional Engineer and compulsory registration with ECSA as a
Professional Engineer. Must have Computer Literacy and a Valid Driver’s
License. Willingness to adapt work schedule in accordance with office
requirements. Knowledge of Electrical schedule in accordance with office
requirements. Knowledge of Electrical Engineering best practice and
Project Management must have extensive knowledge of all electrical
engineering aspects of building and construction environment. Applicable
knowledge of the PFMA, OHSA, SCM, Contract Management Act.
Knowledge of and experience in working in a High-Performance Centre
environment to manage project delivery and must have experience on
how to use dashboards to track project progress. Experience in
development implementation and oversight of recovery plan when
projects are lagging. Decision making skills, team leadership, creativity,
self-management, customer focus and responsiveness, planning and
organizing, conflict management, problem solving and analysis, people
management, change management and innovation skills. Strong verbal
and written communication skills. Good analytical skills.
DUTIES : Provide technical lead in proposal preparations. Define technical lead in
proposal resources requirements for successful work execution. Perform
final review and approvals or audits on new engineering designs
according to design principle or theory. Co-ordinate design efforts and
integration across disciplines to ensure seamless integration with current
technology. Pioneering of new engineering services and management
methods. Manage the execution maintenance strategy through the
provision of appropriate structures, systems and resources. Set
engineering maintenance standards, specifications and services levels
according to organizational objectives to ensure optimum operational
availability. Identify areas for technological advancement and maintaining
excellent engineering standards. Maximise team performance using
standard processes. Monitor maintenance efficiencies according to
organizational goals to direct or redirect engineering services for
attainment of organizational objectives. Allocate, control, monitor and
report on all resources. Compile risk logs and manage significant risk
according to sound risk management practice and organizational
requirements. Provide technical consulting services for the operation on
engineering related matters to minimize possible engineering risks.
Ensure an effective interface with other departmental staff maintained.
Allocate, control and monitor expenditure according to budget to ensure
efficient cash flow management. Mentor, train, develop candidates and
related technical and administrative personnel to promote skills/
knowledge transfer and adherence to sound engineering principles and
code practice. Provide general supervision of employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S. Jikeka Tel No: (041) 408 2074
APPLICATIONS : Gqeberha Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X3913, North End, Port
Elizabeth, 6056. Hand delivery: Room 430, Corner. Hancock & Robert
Street, North End, Port Elizabeth, 6056. Or email to: RecruitPE25-
01@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms PT Buswa
39
POST 10/47 : CHIEF ENGINEER: MECHANICAL (GRADE A) REF NO: 2025/02
(Re-advertisement for Ref No: 2024/71, PSVC 27 of 2024, Applicants who
previously applied are encouraged to re-apply)
SALARY : R1 200 426 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to
be structured in accordance with the rules of the OSD)
CENTRE : Cape Town Office Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : An Engineering degree (B Eng/ BSC (Eng) or relevant qualification; 6
years post qualification experience as an Mechanical Engineer in the
Building Services Environment; compulsory registration with ECSA as
professional Engineer. Extensive knowledge of all Mechanical
engineering aspects of the building and construction environment; Public
Finance Management Act; Occupational Health and Safety Act; Supply
Chain Management; Contract Management. Ability to undertake critical
review/analysis and provide technical advice; Ability to maintain integrity
of confidential information; Financial administration; Effective verbal
communication; Advanced technical report writing, Numeracy; Computer
Literacy; Planning and Organising; Relationship management;
Programme and project management; Interpersonal and diplomacy skills;
Problem solving; Decision making; Motivational skills; Conflict resolution;
Negotiation skills. Analytical thinking; Innovative; Creative; Solution
orientated; Ability to work under stressful situations; Ability to
communicate at all levels; People oriented; Trustworthy; Assertive; Hard-
working; Ability to work independently. Drivers’ license; Prepared to travel;
willing to adapt to working schedule in accordance with office
requirements.
DUTIES : Engineering design and analysis effectiveness; Perform final review and
approvals or audits on new engineering designs according to design
principles or theory; Co-ordinate design efforts and integration across
disciplines to ensure seamless integration with current technology;
Pioneering of new engineering practices and management methods.
Maintain engineering operational effectiveness; Manage the execution of
maintenance strategy through the provision of appropriate structures,
systems and resources; Set engineering maintenance standards,
specifications and service levels according to organizational objectives to
ensure optimum operational availability; Monitor maintenance efficiencies
according to organizational goals to direct or redirect engineering services
for the attainment of organizational objectives. Manage significant projects
risk according to sound risk management practice and organizational
requirements; Provide technical consulting services for the operation on
engineering related matters to minimize possible engineering risks;
Manage and implement knowledge sharing initiatives e.g. short-term
assignments and secondments within and across operations, in support
of individual development plans, operational requirements and return on
investment; Continuously monitor the exchange and protection of
information between operations and individuals to ensure effective
knowledge management according to departmental objectives. Financial
Management; Manage the operational maintenance & capital projects
portfolios for the operation to ensure effective resourcing according to
organizational needs and objectives; Facilitate the compilation of
innovation proposals to ensure validity and adherence to organizational
principles; People management; Manage the development, motivation
and utilization of human resources for the discipline to ensure competent
knowledge base for the continued success of engineering services
according to organizational needs and requirements; Manage
subordinates’ key performance areas by setting and monitoring
performance standards and taking actions to correct deviations to achieve
departmental objectives. Conduct quality control over the work of
consultants and contractors during the execution phase of projects. Assist
project managers in resolving technical disputes arising at different stages
of projects. Review and audit final consultants payments. Accept
responsibility for the development, implementation, review and regular
40
updating of standardised mechanical engineering practice manuals for the
Department. Undertake detail design, documentation and implementation
of minor in-house projects. Engage with client departments and
stakeholders on technical matters. Provide mentorship and supervision to
candidate engineers, technologists and technicians. Comply with
Engineering Services requirements to ensure uniform best practices
across the department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. T. Kolele Tel No: (021) 402 2063
APPLICATIONS : Cape Town Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X9027, Cape Town, 8000. Or
Hand Deliver at Ground floor, Customs House Building, Lower
Heerengracht Street, Cape Town. Or email to: RecruitCPT25-
01@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : MS. C Rossouw
POST 10/48 : CHIEF CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGEMENT (GRADE A) REF
NO: 2025/03 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 200 426 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to
be structured in accordance with the rules of the OSD)
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A National Higher Diploma (Built Environment Field)/ B-Tech (Built
Environment Field)/ Honours Degree in any Built environment field with a
minimum of six (6) years post qualification experience. A valid driver’s
license. Compulsory registration with the SACPCMP as a Professional
Construction Project Manager. Knowledge of programme and project
management, project design and analysis, legal and operational
compliance, as well as the creation of high performance culture.
Communication, problem solving, analytical, decision making and conflict
management skills also critical.
DUTIES : Monitor the performance of project managers under his/her supervision.
Mentor, develop and offer technical support to improve performance.
Manage construction projects on his/her own, ranging from large scale
capital projects to maintenance projects and service contracts. Ensure
that the needs of the clients are well interpreted into manageable scopes
of work. Procure the services of built environment professionals through
stipulated supply chain management process. Coordinate the work of
various professionals to ensure the required design and documentation
quality as well as delivery is in accordance with the project execution
plans. Coordinate all internal resources required to ensure the bidding
process for appointment of contractors. Ensure that appointed consultants
manage the quality of work within their professional scope and
responsibility. Ensure that contractors timeously receive relevant
specifications and details to contracts. Adjudicate all applications of
variation orders and extensions of time, and make recommendations to
the approving authority within the Department. Process all interim monthly
payments as per conditions of contract and in line with the Government’s
commitment to pay invoices timeously. Prepare and submit project
information to be filled to the Head of Directorate. Secure all required
funding for the projects through internal set processes. Ensure that project
information is filled appropriately for easy access during audit. Cultivate a
culture for good working relationships with fellow colleagues within the
Department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Kolele Tel No: (021) 402 2063
APPLICATIONS : Cape Town Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X9027, Cape Town, 8000. Or
Hand Deliver at Ground floor, Customs House Building, Lower
Heerengracht Street, Cape Town. Or email to: RecruitCPT25-
02@dpw.gov.za.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. C Rossouw
NOTE : People with disabilities are encouraged to apply
41
POST 10/49 : CHIEF ARCHITECT: PROJECTS (GRADE A) REF NO: 2025/04
SALARY : R1 042 170 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to
be structured in accordance with the rules of the OSD)
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : B degree in Architecture or relevant qualification. Six years post
qualification architectural experience required. Compulsory registration
with SACAP as a professional Architect. Valid driver’s license. Knowledge:
Architectural design, principles and analysis. Be acquainted with and have
exposure in: development, implementation, oversight of recovery plans
when projects are lagging as well as the use of dashboards to track project
progress. Computer-aided engineering applications. Knowledge Of:
Occupational Health and Safety Act. Public Finance Management Act.
Skills: advanced technical report writing, ability to undertake critical
review/analysis and provide technical advice, financial administration.
Effective verbal communication and negotiation skills. Personal Attributes:
analytical, solution orientated, ability to work under stressful situations and
to communicate at all levels. Ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Architectural design and analysis effectiveness. Perform final review and
approval or audits on architectural designs according to design principles
or theory. Co-ordinate design effort and integration across discipline to
ensure seamless integration with current technology. Maintain
engineering operational effectiveness. Manage the execution of
architectural strategy through the provision of appropriate structures,
systems and resources. Set architectural standards, specifications and
services levels according to organizational objectives to ensure optimum
operational availability. Monitor and maintain efficiencies according to
organizational goals to direct or redirect architectural services for the
attainment of organizational objectives. Ensure the availability and
management of funds to meet the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF) objectives within the engineering environment. Management the
operational capital project portfolio for the operation to ensure effective
resourcing according to organizational needs and objectives. Manage the
commercial value add of the discipline-related programmes and projects.
Allocate, control and monitor expenditure according to budget to ensure
efficient cash flow management. Allocate, monitor and control resources.
Compile risk logs and manage significant risk according to sound risk
management. Provide technical consulting services for the operation of
architectural related matters to minimize possible architectural risks.
Manage and implement knowledge sharing initiative e.g. short-term
assignments and secondments within and across operations, in support
of individual development plans. Continuously monitor the exchange and
protection of information between operations and individuals to ensure
effective knowledge management according to departmental objectives.
Assess the work of support for development. Identify on-job trainee
requirements. Train and develop trainee cost engineer on the job and
through formalized training programmes. Coach and mentor newly
appointed personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Kolele Tel No: (021) 402 2063
APPLICATIONS : Cape Town Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X9027, Cape Town, 8000. Or
Hand Deliver at Ground floor, Customs House Building, Lower
Heerengracht Street, Cape Town. Or email to: RecruitCPT25-
03@dpw.gov.za.
FOR ATTENTION : MS. C Rossouw
NOTE : People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 10/50 : CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER (GARDE A) REF NO: 2025/05
(X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R833 499 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the OSD)
42
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A National Higher Diploma (Built Environment Field) with a minimum of
four years (4) and six (6) months certified experience, B-Tech (Built
Environment field) with a minimum of four (4) years certified managerial
experience, Honours Degree in any Built environment field with a
minimum of three (3) years’ experience, Compulsory registration with the
South African Council for the Project and Construction Management
Professions (SACPCMP) as a Professional Construction Manager. A valid
driver’s license. Computer literacy, Knowledge and understanding of the
following Acts: Public Finance Management Act, Occupational Health and
Safety Act as well as Building Regulations and Environmental
Conservation Act, Knowledge and understanding of the Government
Procurement System, good planning, financial and budget skills, Sound
analytical and good written and verbal communication skills; Knowledge
and understanding of the JBCC and GCC form of contract.
DUTIES : Contribute to project initiation, scope definition and scope change control
for envisaged projects. Full project management function, cost, quality
and time control. Manage project cost estimates and control changes in
line with allocated budgets. Plan and attend project meetings during the
project phases. Assist with the compilation of projects documentation to
support project processes. Implement project administration processes
according to Government requirements. Ensure implementation of
procurement activities and adherence thereof to Government policies.
Provide assistance in implementing and assuring that project execution is
in accordance with the approved project norms and time schedules.
Support the project environment and activities to ensure that project
objectives are delivered timeously. Manage and engage in multi-
disciplinary construction teams regarding the construction/maintenance of
facilities; Ensure that construction projects are implemented and executed
as envisaged in the Acquisition/procurement plan and that high quality
projects are delivered within time, cost and quality framework.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Kolele Tel No: (021) 402 2063
APPLICATIONS : Cape Town Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, National
Dept of Public Works, Private Bag X9027, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
delivered to Ground-floor, Customs House Building, Foreshore, Lower
Heerengracht Street, Cape Town. Or email to: RecruitCPT25-
04@dpw.gov.za.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms C Rossouw
NOTE : People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 10/51 : CHIEF ARTISAN (GRADE A): ELECTRICAL/ MECHANICAL:
WORKSHOP REF NO: 2025/06
SALARY : R455 223 per annum, (OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Cape Town regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in Electrical/ Mechanical. Ten (10) years
post qualification Experience required as an Artisan/Artisan Foreman.
Valid driver’s license. Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act
85 of 1993 and relevant Regulations. Must have the understanding of
Technical/Engineering drawings. Must be computer literate.
DUTIES : The successful candidate must be able to compile material quantities per
project, will be required to maintain all Government Buildings including
new work to buildings, must be willing to work overtime if and when
required, and construct progress reports on projects and
monitor/Train/mentor Artisans, Assistants and learners regularly. Maintain
good housekeeping in the Workshop and manage equipment, tools and
machinery used as per OHS Act 85 of 1993. The job involves a lot of
travelling. It will be expected of the incumbent to climb ladders for
inspection and maintenance on the government building/adherence
requirement of the job. The incumbent must have knowledge of all work
shop equipment and knowledge of relevant trades.
43
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T Mudau at (082) 777 3368/ Mr. M. Gazi at (082) 889 0792/ Mr.
M.Stephens at (082) 376 6005
APPLICATIONS : Cape Town Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X9027, Cape Town, 8000. Or
Hand Deliver at Ground floor, Customs House Building, Lower
Heerengracht Street, Cape Town. Or email to: RecruitCPT25-
05@dpw.gov.za.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. C Rossouw
NOTE : People with disabilities are encouraged to apply
POST 10/52 : ARTISAN PAINTER: WORKSHOP (GRADE A) REF NO: 2025/07 (X2
POSTS)
(Re-advertisement for Ref No: 2024/87, PSVC 33 of 2024, Applicants who
previously applied are encouraged to re-apply)
SALARY : R230 898 per annum, (OSD Salary package)
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in Painting. A valid driver`s License.
Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act 85, of 1993 and
Regulations. It is expected of an official to have a general knowledge to
their respective Trades. Must have General knowledge of tools,
equipment and machinery in the workshop.
DUTIES : The successful candidate must be able to compile material quantities per
project, will be required to maintain all Government Buildings including
new work to buildings, must be willing to work overtime if and when
required, and compile progress reports on projects and monitor Artisan
assistants and Learners. Report directly to Artisan Superintendent. Must
have vast knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act 85 of 1993.
It will be expected of the incumbent to participate in various expeditions
including other Islands (Marion, Gough & Antarctica) & Robben Island.
The successful candidate must be prepared to climb ladders for
inspection, work in confined spaces, dust, heights and excessive heat.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. E Ryklief at (066) 185 0207
APPLICATIONS : Cape Town Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X9027, Cape Town, 8000. Or
Hand Deliver at Ground floor, Customs House Building, Lower
Heerengracht Street, Cape Town. Or email to: RecruitCPT25-
07@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. C Rossouw
POST 10/53 : ARTISAN PLUMBING: WORKSHOP (GRADE A) REF NO: 2025/08
SALARY : R230 898 per annum, (OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in Plumbing. A valid driver`s License
(B1/ Higher). Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act 85, of
1993 and Regulations. It is expected of an official to have a general
knowledge to their respective Trades. Must have General knowledge of
tools, equipment and machinery in the workshop.
DUTIES : The successful candidate must be able to compile material quantities per
project, will be required to maintain all Government Buildings including
new work to buildings, must be willing to work overtime if and when
required, and compile progress reports on projects and monitor Artisan
assistants and Learners. Report directly to Artisan Superintendent. Must
have vast knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act 85 of 1993.
It will be expected of the incumbent to participate in various expeditions
including other Islands (Marion, Gough & Antarctica) & Robben Island.
The successful candidate must be prepared to climb ladders for
inspection, work in confined spaces, dust, heights and excessive heat.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. WM Samsodien Tel No: (021) 402 2153 or Mr T Mudua Tel No: (021)
402 2333
44
APPLICATIONS : Cape Town Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X9027, Cape Town, 8000. Or
Hand Deliver at Ground floor, Customs House Building, Lower
Heerengracht Street, Foreshore, Cape Town. Or email to: RecruitCPT25-
08@dpw.gov.za.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. C Rossouw
POST 10/54 : ARTISAN BRICKLAYER: WORKSHOP (GRADE A) REF NO: 2025/09
SALARY : R230 898 per annum, (OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in Bricklaying. A valid driver`s License.
Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act 85, of 1993 and
Regulations. It is expected of an official to have a general knowledge to
their respective Trades. Must have General knowledge of tools,
equipment and machinery in the workshop.
DUTIES : The successful candidate must be able to compile material quantities per
project, will be required to maintain all Government Buildings including
new work to buildings, must be willing to work overtime if and when
required, and compile progress reports on projects and monitor Artisan
assistants and Learners. Report directly to Artisan Superintendent. Must
have vast knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act 85 of 1993.
It will be expected of the incumbent to participate in various expeditions
including other Islands (Marion, Gough & Antarctica) & Robben Island.
The successful candidate must be prepared to climb ladders for
inspection, work in confined spaces, dust, heights and excessive heat.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Stephens Tel No: (021) 402 2334; Mr. M Jumba Tel No: (021) 402
2338; Mr. Mudau Tel No: (021) 402 2333
APPLICATIONS : Cape Town Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X9027, Cape Town, 8000. Or
Hand Deliver at Ground floor, Customs House Building, Lower
Heerengracht Street, Cape Town. Or email to: RecruitCPT25-
09@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. C Rossouw
POST 10/55 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION: PAINTER (GRADE A) REF NO: 2025/10
SALARY : R230 898 per annum, (OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Regional office
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in Painting. A valid driver’s license.
Knowledge in the field of water reticulation, repairs and maintenance to
valve chambers and burst pipes. Also have knowledge in bricklaying,
carpentry and painting. Must be willing to work overtime and stand by.
Ability to manage people. An understanding of the Performance
management System. Computer literacy. Good communication skills
(Verbal and Written). Negotiation skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be in charge of Building workshop as well
as the building related services. Administer leave, overtime and transport
registers. Report to Head of workshop.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Mashinini Tel No: (051) 408 734
APPLICATIONS : Bloemfontein Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, P/Bag X20605, Bloemfontein, 9300 or Hand
Delivered to 18 President Brandt Street, Bloemfontein, 9300. Or email to:
RecruitBLOEM25-01@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr D Manus
45
ANNEXURE G
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to the
address specified on each post. Applications must be submitted using the
newly implemented Z83 form obtainable on the Department of Water and
Sanitations website, under career opportunities or the DPSA website,
under vacancies in the Public Service (point 4) and should be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV with full particulars of the
applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge &
experience). All required information on the Z83 application form must be
provided. Other related documentation such as copies of qualifications,
identity document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany the
application when applying for a post as such documentation must only be
produced by shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with
DPSA circular 19 of 2022. With reference to applicants bearing
professional or occupational registration, fields provided in Part B of the
Z83 must be completed as these fields are regarded as compulsory and
such details must also be included in the applicants CV. For posts
requiring a driver’s license, annotate such details on CV. Failure to
complete or disclose all required information will automatically disqualify
the applicant. No late, applications will be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to suitability checks (SAQA verification,
reference checks criminal and credit checks). SAQA evaluation certificate
must accompany foreign qualification/s (only when shortlisted).
Applications that do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements
will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates pertaining to Senior
Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a technical and
competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained from the
National School of government is required prior to the appointment.
Candidates will be required to complete a financial disclosure form and
undergo a security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must
provide a police clearance certificate from country of origin (only when
shortlisted). The Department of Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity
employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i)
of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996) the
Employment Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act,
1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of the
Department will be taken into consideration. Correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not hear from us within
three (3) months of this advertisement, please accept that your application
has been unsuccessful. Faxed applications will not be considered. The
department reserves the right not to fill these positions. Women and
persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference will be
given to the EE Targets.
OTHER POSTS
POST 10/56 : SCIENTIST MANAGER GRADE A REF NO: 310325/01
Branch: Water Resource Management
Dir: Resource Quality Information Services
Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied must reapply
SALARY : R1 042 170 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria (Roodeplaat)
REQUIREMENTS : An MSc degree or relevant qualification in Numerical, Earth or Natural
Science. Six (6) years post BSc Natural Scientific experience. Compulsory
registration with the South African Council for Natural Scientific
Professions (SACNASP) as a Professional Natural Scientist. The
disclosure of a valid unexpired driver's licence. A certification in
46
information systems analysis, design, and development, backed by
relevant experience. Working knowledge of National Water Act, 1998 (Act
No 36 of 1998), related legislation policies. Computer literacy. Knowledge
of PFMA and Occupational Health and Safety Act. Planning and
organising, people management, conflict management, negotiation,
change management skills. Mentoring of candidate scientists. Experience
in design, development and maintenance of water resources information
systems. Experience in information systems project management and
financial management skills. Good communication, presentation, and
networking skills. Ability to review technical and scientific reports and
provide recommendations. Technical report writing skills. Ability to provide
technical and scientific support to Department of Water and Sanitation
(DWS) units and other government departments. Professional Judgment.
The ability to work independently, to interact with internal/external
stakeholders, Professional Service Providers (PSPs) and planning
partners in the water sector. Working knowledge of research and
development. Computer aided scientist applications. Creation of high-
performance culture. Sound administrative skills and a demonstrated
commitment to service delivery.
DUTIES : Provide leadership and management to the Sub-directorate: Resource
Quality Information. Lead the analysis, design, development and
maintenance of water quality information databases and systems. Lead,
coordinate and develop methodology for the analysis and generation of
water resource quality data, information and knowledge products.
Develop and implement water resource quality information dissemination
tools. Lead and coordinate technical reporting and publication of water
resource quality information, through reports, publications and websites.
Review scientific documents and publications on water resource quality
information. Lead and coordinate training of the DWS officials and the
DWS entities on the use of water resource quality information databases
and systems. Compile technical, scientific, performance reports, project
plan and reports, audit reports, risk reports, operational plan, demand
management plan and procurement plan.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Masilela Tel No: (012) 808 9619
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria): Please email your application quoting the relevant
reference number on the subject line to: RecruitHO10@dws.gov.za or
hand deliver to: Delta Continental Building, Corner of Visagie and Bosman
Street, Pretoria, 0001 or post to: Private Bag X350, Pretoria, 0001.
FOR ATTENTION : Recruitment and Selection Unit
POST 10/57 : SCIENTIST PRODUCTION GRADE A - C REF NO: 310325/02
Branch: Regulation Compliance and Enforcement
Dir: Water Resources Regulations
SALARY : R721 476 – R1 084 368 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package),
(Offer will be based on proven years of experience)
CENTRE : Head Office Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Science degree (BSc) (Hon) in Natural Science or relevant qualification.
Three (3) years post qualification natural scientific experience.
Compulsory registration with the South African Council for Natural
Scientific Professions (SACNASP) as a Professional Natural Scientist.
The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Sound knowledge of
integrated water resource management and water resource protection.
Excellent knowledge and understanding of the water sector i.e. related
policies, regulations, principles, guidelines, tools and procedures as well
as policy development implementation and monitoring other relevant
legislation such as the Minerals and Petroleum Resources Development
Act, 2002 (Act 28 of 2002) and the Natural Environmental Management:
Waste Act: 2008 (Act 28 of 2008). Ability to work in a multidisciplinary team
and to adapt to a dynamic environment. Ability to take initiatives and work
independently. Scientific presentation and exercising professional
judgement. Technical report writing. Facilitation skills and the ability to
47
interact with key stakeholders in the water sector, National Departments
as well as Provincial and Local Government. Excellent communication
skills including verbal, report writing, presentation and computer skills as
well as innovative thinking and analytical / Problem-solving skills. Sound
strategic planning and project management skills. The incumbent must be
willing to travel extensively nationally and willingness to work irregular
hours.
DUTIES : Develop and monitor implementation of regulatory tools, strategies,
protocols, guidelines and standard operating procedures for water
resource regulation and protection. Promote and continuously improve
regulatory tools. The oversight and consolidation of provincial resource
quality reports, the co-ordination and determination of workable solutions
to minimise large scale quantity/quality impact on water resources.
Management of personnel and resources in the sub-directorate. Provide
assistance and support to the regional offices of the department on water
resources regulation and protection and be involved in the management
of projects relevant to the directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs RN Mazwi Tel No: (012) 336 7554
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria): Please email your application quoting the relevant
reference number on the subject line to: RecruitHO10@dws.gov.za or
hand deliver to: Delta Continental Building, Corner of Visagie and Bosman
Street, Pretoria, 0001 or post to: Private Bag X350, Pretoria, 0001.
FOR ATTENTION : Recruitment and Selection Unit
POST 10/58 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN GRADE A REF NO:
310325/03
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R522 741 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Pretoria (Central Operations)
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Electrical / Electronic Engineering or relevant
qualification. Six (6) years post qualification technical
(Electrical/Electronic Engineering) experience. Compulsory registration
with the Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional
Engineering Technician. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s
license. Proven experience in Project Management, Technical design and
Analytical skills. Computer-aided engineering applications. Knowledge of
legal compliance. Technical report writing. Problem solving, decision
making, teamwork, creativity, customer focus, good communication,
computer and people management skills.
DUTIES : Monitor electrical / electronic services to the Government Water Schemes
and Water Users Associations. Manage administrative and related
functions e.g. Monitor the implementation of Capital and Operational
funded projects through conducting site inspections, site meetings,
compilation and submission of progress reports. Familiarity with PLC and
SCADA systems. Research and development of technologies to enhance
electrical / electronic designs and existing operations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Sayed Tel No: (012) 741 7307
APPLICATIONS : Central Operations (Pretoria): Please email your application quoting the
relevant reference number on the subject line to: CETP@dws.gov.za or
hand deliver to: Praetor Forum Building, 267 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Pretoria,
0001 or post to: The Department of Water and Sanitation, Private Bag
X273, Pretoria, 0001.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr Lucky Manganyi
NOTE : NB: Candidates will be required to complete a practical and theoretical
test.
48
POST 10/59 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN PRODUCTION GRADE A-C REF NO:
310325/04 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management Head Office
Dir: Engineering Services
SALARY : R371 253 – R556 080 per annum, (OSD), (Offer will be based on proven
years of experience)
CENTRE : Head Office Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Civil Engineering. Three (3) years post qualification
technical civil engineering experience. Compulsory registration with the
Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional
Engineering Technician. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s
license. Experience in technical design and analysis. Extensive
computer-aided design (CAD) and related engineering application
experience. Excellent communication skills (both written and verbal), good
report writing and presentation skills. Sound interpersonal skills as well as
the ability to work in a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Provide technical services and support in a design drawing office
environment. Produce and edit civil engineering designs and drawings.
Work independently as well as in teams assisting engineers and
technologists. Promote safety in line with statutory and regulatory
requirements. Ensure quality of technical designs and drawings in line
with standards and specifications. Compile and submit reports as
required. Provide guidance and mentorship for Graduate trainees and
candidate technicians. Continuous professional development to keep up
with new technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on
engineering technology to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant
bodies/council on engineering related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. V Monene Tel No: (012) 336 7842 or Mr Dudley Johnson Tel No: (012)
336 8201
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria): Please email your application quoting the relevant
reference number on the subject line to: RecruitHO10@dws.gov.za or
hand deliver to: Delta Continental Building, Corner of Visagie and Bosman
Street, Pretoria, 0001 or post to: Private Bag X350, Pretoria, 0001.
FOR ATTENTION : Recruitment and Selection Unit
POST 10/60 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A - C REF NO:
310325/05
Branch: Regulation Compliance and Enforcement
Dir: Water Use Licencing
Sd: Agriculture & Stream Flow Reduction
SALARY : R325 917 – R 556 080 per annum, (OSD), (Offer will be based on proven
years of experience)
CENTRE : Head Office Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Environmental Management or Natural Sciences.
Experience in water services management or regulation will be an added
advantage. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license.
Understanding of the Department’s role and policy with respect to water
resource management. Knowledge of National Water Act 36 of 1998,
Water Service Act 108 of 1997, related policies and guidelines.
Understanding the principles of Integrated Water Resource Management.
Knowledge and understanding of the sector: relevant legislation (CARA,
NEMA and MPRDA) together with related policies, regulations, principles,
guidelines, tools and procedures and policy development, implementation
and monitoring. Computer skills (MS Office, Excel and PowerPoint). Good
communication skills both verbal and written. Good presentation and
report writing skills. Ability to provide technical and scientific support to
other Departments within Water and Sanitation functions. Ability to travel
to provinces and country wide. Ability and willingness to work abnormal
hours. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to organize stakeholders’
engagements and interact with communities in official events.
49
DUTIES : Provide support and guidance to the Department’s components and water
management institutions in processing of water use authorization
applications from all water use sectors. Maintain relationships with
stakeholders and coordinate engagements within the department and
broader water sector. Provide technical advice to water use authorization
related enquiries. Development, implementation and review of regulatory
tools for water use authorisation. Develop, update, maintain and provide
training on policies, legislation, protocols and guidelines for water use
authorisation. Participate in the assessment of water resource
management research needs for the directorate. Participate in water use
authorization appeals and litigation process. Participate in engagements
with other Departments responsible for permitting within the broader
environmental sector. Compile reports and make presentations internally
and externally.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Khosa Tel No: (012) 336 7496
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria): Please email your application quoting the relevant
reference number on the subject line to: RecruitHO10@dws.gov.za or
hand deliver to: Delta Continental Building, Corner of Visagie and Bosman
Street, Pretoria, 0001 or post to: Private Bag X350, Pretoria, 0001.
FOR ATTENTION : Recruitment and Selection Unit
50
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF WOMEN, YOUTH AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
The mandate of the Department is to lead on socio-economic transformation and implementation of
the empowerment and participation of women, youth and persons with disabilities through
mainstreaming, advocacy, monitoring and evaluation.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are urged to choose/ utilise one of the methods provided
below: you may forward your application, quoting reference, addressed
to: The Director-General, Department of Women, Youth and Persons with
Disabilities, Private Bag X931, Pretoria, 0001. Alternatively, applications
may also be hand delivered to 268 Lilian Ngoyi Street, Fedsure Forum
Building, 1st floor, Pretoria CBD. Another option is to submit application
through email as a single scanned document/one PDF attachment to the
email addresses specified for each position (kindly note that the emailed
applications and attachments should not exceed 15mb). General
enquiries may be brought to the attention of Mr Zuko Bebula Tel No: (012)
359 0417/ Mr Joseph Mahlangu Tel No: (012) 359 0238
CLOSING DATE : 04 April 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on new Z83 form, which can be
downloaded from: http://www.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applications
submitted on the old application for employment (Z83) will not be
considered. All fields in the Z83 application form must be completed in full,
in a manner that allows a selection committee to assess the quality of a
candidate based on the information provided in the form. It is therefore
prudent that fields be completed by applicants and signed, noting the
importance of the declaration. South African applicants need not to
provide passport numbers. Candidate must respond “Yes“ or “No“ to the
question whether you are conducting business with the state. If “Yes”,
details thereof only shortlisted candidates will submit Declaration form for
conducting business with the state when shortlisted to the application. It
is acceptable for applicant to indicate “not applicable” or leave a blank to
the question “In the event that you are employed in the Public Service, will
you immediately relinquish such business interest?” Applicants are not
required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents
but must submit the completed and signed Z83 and detailed Curricula
Vitae. The communication from HR of the Department regarding the
requirement for certified document will be limited to shortlisted candidates.
Therefore, only shortlisted candidate for a post will be required to submit
certified documents on or before the day of the interview following
communication from HR. Non-RSA citizens/permanent resident permit
holders must submit a copy only when shortlisted. Should you be in
possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Should you not hear from the Department within three (3) months
of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your application
to be unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to fill and/or
make an appointment to any of the advertised posts. Short-listed
candidates may be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job as part of the selection process, the
logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. Successful
candidates shall be required to enter into performance agreement within
three (3) months of assuming their duties in the Department, and within
one (1) month of the date of their appointment conclude the prescribed
contract of employment. Designated employees shall be required to
disclose their financial interest within 30 days after assumption of duty.
Appointments will only be made on the first notch of the advertised salary
level. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to personal security
vetting. Note that in terms of the Protection of Personal Information Act,
2021, the Department will ensure the protection of applicants ‘personal
information and only collect, use and retain applicants’ personal
information for the purposes of recruitment and selection processes. The
51
Department shall safeguard such personal information against access by
unauthorised persons, unlawful disclosure, or breaches. The Department
is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of these posts, the
objectives of section 195 of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa
and the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act 55 of 1998) will be taken into
consideration and preference will be given to Women, Youth and Persons
with Disabilities
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 10/61 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: MONITORING, EVALUATION,
RESEARCH AND COORDINATION REF NO: DWYPD/007/2025
SALARY : R1 741 770 per annum (Level 15), full inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate, appropriate
post graduate qualification (NQF level 8) as recognised by SAQA in Social
Science, Development Science or relevant qualifications; and (NQF level
9) and above qualification will be an added advantage; Certificate of
Successful completion of the National School of Government’s SMS Pre-
Entry Programme prior appointment. A minimum of 8 years’ experience at
a senior managerial level. Proven experience in activism in the gender,
youth and disability activisms; development, review and implementation
of legislation and policies on socio-economic transformation, participation
and empowerment of women, youth and persons with disabilities;
stakeholder management at executive and community levels;
management of gender-, youth- and disability-responsive planning,
budgeting, monitoring evaluation and audit. Intimate knowledge of the
legislative framework and regulatory requirement related to gender, youth
and disability empowerment and participation; policy formulation,
interpretation and implementation within government; socio-economic
policy framework; international commitments and instruments relevant to
gender, youth and disability advocacy and mainstreaming; mandate and
strategic objectives of the Department.
DUTIES : Provide transversal services in relation to Research, Knowledge
Management, Internation Relations; Stakeholder Management and
Monitoring and Evaluation for Women, Youth and Persons with
Disabilities. Ensure research and knowledge management on the
transformation and rights of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities;
develop and implement a research strategy on transformation and rights
of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities; establish and manage a
centralised evidence-based knowledge hub on Women, Youth and
Persons with Disabilities transformation issues. Manage and coordinate
the provision of international relations, stakeholder participation and
capacity building for Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities; manage
the provision of international relations promoting the rights of Women,
Youth and Persons with Disabilities; manage and coordinate stakeholder
participation in programmes promoting the rights of Women, Youth and
Persons with Disabilities; coordinate capacity building on mainstreaming
for Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities. Ensure effective
government-wide monitoring and evaluation of policy priorities towards
the transformation and empowerment of Women, Youth and Persons with
Disabilities; monitor the implementation of key priorities and government-
wide interventions towards the transformation and empowerment of
Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities; evaluate the effectiveness
and impact achieved towards the transformation and empowerment of
Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities. Management of the Branch:
Monitoring, Evaluation, Research and Coordination: effective, efficient
and economic management of the Budget Programme and respective
Sub Programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Mbhazima Shiviti Tel No: (012) 359 0262
APPLICATIONS : Recruitment03@dwypd.gov.za
52
NOTE : Preference will be given to Women and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 10/62 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS, STAKEHOLDER
MANAGEMENT AND CAPACITY BUILDING REF NO:
DWYPD/008/2025
SALARY : R1 436 002 per annum (Level 14), fully inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate and an
appropriate undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in Information
Management/Social Sciences, Development Science as recognised by
SAQA; Certificate of Successful completion of National School of the
Government’s SMS Pre-Entry Programme prior appointment; A minimum
of 5 years’ experience at a senior managerial level. Proven experience in
activism in the gender, youth and disabilities sectors; government policies
and programmes analysis and consolidation; governance matters related
to gender, youth and persons with disabilities; international relations,
outreach programmes, stakeholder management at executive and
community levels. Intimate knowledge of the legislative framework and
regulatory requirements related to gender, youth and disability
empowerment and participation; policy formulation, interpretation and
implementation within government; international commitments and
instruments relevant to gender, youth and disability advocacy and
mainstreaming; mandate and strategic objectives of the Department.
DUTIES : To manage and coordinate the provision of international relations,
stakeholder participation and capacity building for Women, Youth and
Persons with Disabilities. Manage the provision of international relations
promoting the rights of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities;
promote alignment of national laws, legislation and policies to global,
regional and sub-regional instruments to advance global integration;
coordinate reporting on South Africa’s compliance with and performance
in relation to national, international, regional and continental
commitments; facilitate the establishment of mutually beneficial bilateral
relations with strategic countries; manage and promote participation of
Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities in bilateral and multilateral
platforms to influence global agenda and decision-making. Manage and
coordinate stakeholder participation in programmes promoting the rights
of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities; manage and coordinate
inter-governmental relations to advance the rights of Women, Youth and
Persons with Disabilities; develop interactive platforms for Women, Youth
and Persons with Disabilities to articulate their concerns, needs and
challenges; engage other stakeholders on socio-economic transformation
and implementation of rights of Women, Youth and Persons with
Disabilities; coordinate case management and establish referral and
follow-up mechanisms; develop and maintain stakeholder databases;
coordinate National Machineries for Women, Youth and Persons with
Disabilities; provide technical support and advisory services to
stakeholders across all spheres of Government on transformation and
rights of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities; coordinate capacity
building on mainstreaming for Women, Youth and Persons with
Disabilities. Management of the Sub Programme: manage the human and
financial resources of the Chief Directorate; manage and report the
strategic performance; manage risk mitigation and implement internal
control systems.
ENQUIRIES : Mbhazima Shiviti Tel No: (012) 359 0262
APPLICATIONS : Recruitment01@dwypd.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Women and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 10/63 : DIRECTOR: SECURITY AND WORK ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT
REF NO: DWYPD/009/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), fully inclusive remuneration package
53
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate and an
appropriate Bachelor’s degree (NQF level 7) in Security Administration/
Management/Policing as recognised by SAQA; Certificate of Successful
completion of National School of the Government’s SMS Pre-Entry
Programme prior appointment; Registration with PSIRA will be added
advantage. A minimum of 5 years experience at a middle/senior
managerial level. Knowledge of Legislative framework on security and the
MISS document, Provisions of the Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA) Public service Act and Regulations, Employment Equity Act,
Departmental policies and applicable protocols; Departmental
governance framework and mandate, Security Management, SA
legislative framework especially the National Strategic Intelligence Act of
1994 as amended, Occupational Health and Safety, Regulations and
SHERQ, Department’s Strategic objectives.
DUTIES : Manage the leasing, allocation, maintenance, refurbishment and
renovation of offices in the Department; manage the implementation of
lease contract and ensure proper documentation, engage with the
Department of Public Works and Infrastructure and other service
providers on issues pertaining to facilities, plan and manage office
allocation and inter-office movement, respond to emergency and systems
failures, plan and manage the cleaning, maintenance, refurbishment and
renovations and fleet management; Ensure compliance with
environmental health and safety standards in the Department; conduct
health and safety awareness campaigns, ensure that evacuation drills are
conducted annually, develop and implement healthy safety policies,
ensure that health and safety equipment and clothing is allocated to safety
officers, ensure the appointment and training of the OHS Committee
members in line with Occupational Health and Safety Act, 1993 (Act 85 of
4993) as amended, develop and implement the Contingency Plan for
evacuation purposes; Manage the provision of physical and information
security in the Department; ensure the implementation of the Minimum
Information Security, Standards document, ensure the implementation of
access and egress and egress control, ensure effective implementation of
protection information measures, ensure the security screening and
vetting of personnel, contractors and consultants, engage SAPS and
State Security Agency on physical and information security appraisals,
ensure the application of Technical Surveillance Counter Measures
(TSCM) in relevant offices, ensure the establishment and appointment of
the security committee members, manage the Service Level Agreement
(SLA) with appointed service provider; Oversee wate disposal, cleaning,
parking and fleet management in the Department; Coordination of security
cluster during Departmental event; ensure the application for the
categorization of the event by SAPS, application to SSA for accreditation
and security screening of service provider and ensure that the Department
appoints qualified Health Inspector for events.
ENQUIRIES : Mbhazima Shiviti Tel No: (012) 359 0262
APPLICATIONS : Recruitment04@dwypd.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Women and Persons with Disabilities.
54
ANNEXURE I
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Agriculture and Rural Development is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer and is committed to the promotion of diversity and equity in employment. Women and
people living with disabilities are highly encouraged to apply. The Department of Agriculture and
Rural Development reserves the right not to fill any advertised post. Invited candidates will attend
interviews at their own cost due to budgetary constraints.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-
Recruitment Applicants may also submit their completed and signed Z83
application forms and CV’s directly to the following email addresses:
kznjobssouth@kzndard.gov.za for reference numbers starting with SSC
OR kznjobsnorth@kzndard.gov.za for reference numbers starting with
NSC. All applications must be addressed to the Head of Department and
for reference numbers starting with SSC may be hand delivered or
couriered to 4 Pin Oak Avenue, Hilton, 3245. Applications may also be
posted to Private Bag X6005, Hilton, 3245. All applications for reference
numbers starting with NSC may be hand delivered or couriered to Lot no.
11634, Corner of Via Verbena and Loop Street, Veldenvlei, Richards Bay,
3900. Applications may also be posted to Private Bag X1048, Richards
Bay, 3900. Applicants are discouraged from sending applications through
registered mail because the Department will not be responsible for non-
collection of these applications.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
NOTE : For all SMS posts, appointments will be subject to submission of the pre-
entry certificate into the SMS obtainable from the National School of
Governance. The recommended candidate will be subjected to a
competency assessment, the signing of a mutually agreed performance
agreement, security clearance and will be required to disclose financial
interest. system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applications submitted
electronically will be taken as a final application and may not be amended
or supplemented in any way after the closing date indicated in the
advertisement. Applicants using the manual application process must
submit their applications on the prescribed form Z83 (Please Use The
New Z83 Form Which Is Effective From 01 January 2021) obtainable from
any Public Service Department or at www.dpsa.gov.za and all
applications must be accompanied by a comprehensive CV. Applicants
must ensure that the Z83 application form is completed in full, duly signed
and initialled, as failure to do so may lead to disqualification of the
application during the selection process. Only shortlisted candidates will
be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other
related/supporting documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from Human Resources. Applicants may
also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS)
where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or receiving
your hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online
Application Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). No late applications will be
accepted. Failure to comply with the above instructions will result in the
disqualification of your application. If you have not been contacted within
three (3) months after the closing date of the advertisement, please accept
that your application was unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 10/64 : DISTRICT DIRECTOR: HARRY GWALA DISTRICT REF NO:
SSC01/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive salary SMS package
55
CENTRE : Harry Gwala District - Ixopo
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification in Agriculture and a valid driver’s license.
Experience: 5 years of experience at a middle/senior managerial level in
the agricultural extension and advisory services and related environment.
Knowledge: RSA Constitution, White Paper on Agriculture for KZN, Norms
and Standards for Extension and Advisory Services, Strategy for Agrarian
Transformation in KZN, Agricultural Extension and Advisory Principles,
Scientific Agricultural Production Methods, Agricultural Policy Action Plan,
National Development Plan, Provincial Growth and Development Plan,
Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations PFMA, Labour Relations
Act, EPMDS, Community Development, Public Participation, Community
Outreach, Project Management Principles, Social Dynamics of KZN
Communities, Service Delivery Frameworks and Treasury Regulations.
Skills: Language, listening, presentation, analytical thinking, interpersonal
relations, computer, strategic planning, organizational, research,
leadership, facilitation, project management, financial management, time
management, report writing, problem solving, communication, conflict
management, change management, self-disciplined and ability to work
under pressure with minimum supervision, people management,
relationship management and decision making.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of Agricultural Extension and Advisory Services.
Manage District agricultural projects. Manage the provision of all
agricultural specific interventions and engineering support. Contribute to
the development of policies and manage the implementation thereof.
Manage the provision of administration support to the district, including
support to the Veterinary Services. Manage the resources of the
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr LL Jongisa Tel No: (033) 355 9299
OTHER POSTS
POST 10/65 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EXTENSION AND ADVISORY SERVICES REF
NO: SSC07/2025
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive salary MMS package
CENTRE : UGu District - Ray Nkonyeni Local Office
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 08 four (04) year B.Sc in Agriculture degree OR a Bachelor
in Agriculture plus an Honours in Agriculture (NQF level 08) OR a National
Diploma plus a B.Tech in Agriculture (NQF level 07), compulsory
registration with SACNASP and a valid driver’s licence. Experience: 8 –
10 years’ experience in an Agricultural Environment. Knowledge: RSA
Constitution, White Paper on Agriculture in KZN, Norms and Standards
for Advisory Services, Strategy for Agrarian Transformation in KZN,
Agricultural Extension and Advisory Principles, Scientific Agricultural
Production Methods, Agricultural Policy Action Plan, National
Development Plan, Provincial Growth and Development Plan, Public
Service Act, Public Service Regulations, PFMA, Treasury Regulations,
Labour Relations Act, EPMDS, community development, public
participation, community outreach, project management principles, social
dynamics of KZN communities and service delivery frameworks. Skills:
Planning and organizing, team leadership, problem solving and analysis,
creativity and innovation, decision making, customer focus and
responsiveness, communication, presentation, public speaking, computer
literacy, management, social facilitation, conflict management, analytical
and data analysis, scientific methodology and models, research and
development, scientific editing and review, project management,
professional judgement and computer aided scientific applications.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of agricultural extension and advisory services.
Manage the implementation of local agricultural projects. Implement
agricultural specific interventions. Promote partnerships and cooperation
56
with relevant role players. Develop policies and strategies aimed at
improving service delivery. Manage resources of the office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MP Gwala Tel No: (039) 682 2045
POST 10/66 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER (MR5) REF NO: SSC22/2025 (X2
POSTS)
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R440 412 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office - Cedara
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB degree and admission as an attorney, and a valid driver’s licence.
Experience: 8 years’ appropriate post qualification legal experience.
Knowledge: RSA Constitution, Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, PFMA, Departmental Business Processes, Human
Resource Management Policies and Procedures, Legal Procedures,
Batho Pele Handbook, Promotion of Access to Information Act, Promotion
of Administrative Justice Act, Protection of Personal Information Act,
Labour Relations Act, Change Management, Computer operation/Office
automation, Law of Contract, Civil Law and Labour Law. Skills: Contract
drafting, legislative drafting, financial management, litigation
management, people management, problem solving, time management,
decision making, planning, leadership, project planning, conflict
management, written and verbal communication, interpersonal relations,
organising, policy analysis and development, motivational, computer,
report writing, influencing, monitoring, analysis, well-developed research
skills, ability to work independently, negotiation and dispute resolution,
presentation, strategy management and policy formulation, collect data
and information, analyse and translate information into knowledge for the
provision of legal advice.
DUTIES : Negotiating, drafting and legal editing service to the Department in respect
of contracts, legal tenders and agreements. Render a legal advisory and
legal support service to the Department. Assisting in legal actions by and
against the Department. Capacitating components on essential
legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Seegobin Tel No: (033) 355 9118
POST 10/67 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN GRADE A/B/C
SALARY : Grade A: R371 253 per annum, (OSD)
Grade B: R419 325 per annum, (OSD)
Grade C: R472 812 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Ugu District: Ref No: SSC39/2025 (X1 Post)
King Cetshwayo District Ref No: NSC21/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 06 National Diploma in Engineering in Civil
Engineering/Quantity Surveying/Land Surveying, compulsory registration
with ECSA as an Engineering Technician (not as a Candidate) and a valid
driver’s license. Experience: 3 years’ post qualification technical
(engineering) experience. Knowledge: Legal compliance, Engineering
norms and standards, technical design and analysis, computer-aided
engineering applications. Skills: Technical skills: project management,
technical design and analysis, research and development, computer-
aided engineering applications, technical report writing and technical
consulting. Generic skills: problem solving and analysis, decision making,
teamwork, creativity, customer focus and responsiveness,
communication, computer, people management, planning and organising
and change management.
DUTIES : Render technical services to the district. Provide technical assistance in
the implementation of projects. Provide advice and guidance. Research
and development. Perform administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MP Gwala (Ugu) Tel No: (039) 682 2045
Mr S Shandu (King Cetshwayo) Tel No: (035) 780 6700
57
POST 10/68 : FARM FOREMAN REF NO: NSC17/2025
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R216 417 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Makhathini Research Farm
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate (Matric) and a valid driver’s license. Experience: 1-
year experience within a farming environment. Knowledge: Basic farming
activities and of health and safety measures. Skills: Use of basic farm
hand tools, cleaning, operating equipment, communication, listening,
reading and time management.
DUTIES : Oversee the implementation of routing activities in respect of research and
crop production. Ensure execution of routine activities in respect of
livestock production and breeding. Perform general routine activities e.g.
cleaning of farm building facilities, disposal of waste material, alien weed
control etc. Execute general routing activities in respect of infrastructure
e.g. maintenance/repair roads, canals, dams drinking troughs, fencing,
etc.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Magawana Tel No: (033) 355 9258
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representivity in all occupational categories in the department.
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be forwarded to: The Human Resources Management
Office, Greys Hospital Private Bag X9001, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or email
to Malinee.chandul@kznhealth.gov.za/
Khazimula.goba@kznhealth.gov.za.
FOR ATTENTION : Mrs M Chandulal
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
NOTE : Directions to Candidates: Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must
submit the new Z83 form and a detailed curriculum vitae only.
OTHER POSTS
POST 10/69 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST- (GENERAL SURGERY) (GRADE 1,2,3) REF
NO: GS 8/25 (X1 POST)
Component: General Surgery
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 271 901 per annum
Grade 2: R1 451 214 per annum
Grade 3: R1 680 780 per annum
All-inclusive package consists of 70% basic salary and 30% flexible
portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable rules, Plus
Commuted Overtime which is subject to the needs of the department.
Incumbents will have to sign the commuted overtime contract form
annually.
CENTRE : Greys Hospital, Pietermaritzburg Metropolitan Hospitals Complex
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate MBChB or equivalent qualification in the Health Science
Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in
General Surgery, which must include an FCS (SA) and MMED completion
and adequate time in a general surgery registrar program. Applicants
awaiting registration with the HPCSA as a specialist general surgeon can
apply and will require registration as a specialist before commencing
employment in the post Current registration (2024-2025) with HPCSA for
Independent Practice Certificate of registration as a Specialist General
Surgeon and for Independent Practice on commencing employment in the
post. Grade 1: Not applicable; Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist Grade 2: 5 Years appropriate experience as a Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in the
58
relevant discipline. Grade 3: 10 Years appropriate experience as a
Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in the relevant discipline. Only shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit proof of all documents, certificate of service endorsed
by HR Department. Knowledge, Skills, Attributes and Abilities: Knowledge
of appropriate specialist level procedures and protocols within the field of
general surgery Specialist will be required to run the Breast, Endocrine and
Renal Surgery Unit. Sound knowledge of Human Resource management.
Financial Management – monitoring of expenditure, Essential Drug List,
Management functions – policy analysis and implementation, strategic
management, project management, information management, total
quality management and improvement, legal aspects, patient care and
service delivery, applicable mandatory requirements and Acts,
Regulations, Protocols and Guidelines used in Health Services.
DUTIES : Participate in the delivery of in-patient and out-patient general surgery
service esp. breast and endocrine service within the Pietermaritzburg
Metropolitan Hospitals Complex based at Grey’s hospital Management of
patients requiring general surgery Assisting in the management of the
surgical database Function as the intern curator when required Inter-
disciplinary coordination of the management of general surgery patients
Supervision of the surgical trainees and interns rotating through the unit
Ensuring the highest standards of clinical, professional, and ethical
behaviour Undertake teaching of interns, undergraduate medical
students, postgraduate general surgery trainees, and allied health care
personnel Conduct, assist, and stimulate research within the ethical
guidelines of the Health Care Act Promote education in cancer
prevention. Develop management protocols for the general surgery
service in accordance with the Hospital and Department policies;
Provide appropriate surgical care to general surgery patients; Responsible
for the Breast, Endocrine and Renal Surgical Unit Maintain the effective and
efficient utilisation of human resources in respect of : overseeing and
supervising general surgery staff in the execution of their duties; training
staff and promoting ongoing staff development in accordance with their
individual and departmental development needs; recruiting and selecting
staff in accordance with government prescripts; assessing performance of
general surgery staff; allocating general surgery personnel to respective
wards and call roster Provide measures and guidance on quality
assurance to comply with set quality standards; Incumbent to provide
general surgery outreach services in the Pietermaritzburg
Metropolitan Hospitals Complex and Area 2 Foster collaboration with
other hospitals within and outside the district; Exercise cost control over
the activities of the department in line with the allocated budget; Participate
in all academic and clinical meetings of the general surgery Department;
Participate in departmental research activities Accept responsibility for
continuous professional development to keep up to date with new
developments in the field of expertise and related fields. Any other duties
as assigned by the Head of Department.
ENQUIRIES : Dr R Sathiram Tel No: (033) 897 3379
NOTE : The Employment Equity Target for this post is: African Male and African
Female.
POST 10/70 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING: (SPECIALTY)-ORTHOPAEDICS/
OPHTHALMOLOGY REF NO: GS 7/25
Component: Nursing
SALARY : R715 977 per annum. Plus 13th Cheque, Medical Aid (Optional), Home
Owners Allowance, Employee must meet the prescribed requirements
CENTRE : Greys Hospital, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate Degree / Diploma in General Nursing A Post Basic
Qualification in Orthopaedic Nursing Science or Ophthalmology Nursing
Science with a duration of at least one (1) year) accredited with the SANC
Current Registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025 SANC
59
receipt) A minimum of 10 years appropriate / recognizable experience
after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing
At least 6 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate
/recognizable experience in the specific speciality after obtaining the 1-
year post-basic qualification in the Orthopaedic Nursing Science or
Ophthalmology Nursing Science. At least three (3) years of the period
referred above must be appropriate / recognisable experience at
Management level. (Eg from the level of an Operational Manager). Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit proof of all documents,
certificate of service endorsed by HR Department. Knowledge, Skills,
Attributes And Abilities: Knowledge of nursing care processes and
procedures, nursing statutes, and other relevant legal frameworks such
as: Nursing act, Occupational health and safety act, Patients’ rights
charter, Bathe Pele principles, Public service regulations, Labor relations
act, Disciplinary codes and procedures, Grievance procedure, Financial
and budgetary knowledge pertaining to the relevant resources under
management Insight into procedures and policies pertaining to nursing
care. Leadership, organizational, decision making and problem-solving
abilities within the limit of the public sector and institutional policy
framework Interpersonal skills including public relations, negotiating,
conflict handling and counselling skills. Computer skills in basic programs.
DUTIES : Plan, organize and monitor objectives of Orthopaedics/Ophthalmology
and Surgical units. Manage and provide therapeutic environment for staff,
patients and the public accessing health care services at Grey’s hospital
Demonstrate effective communication to patients, families,
multidisciplinary team members and other stake holders within the
hospital Ensure that high quality nursing care is rendered to all clients
accessing Orthopaedics/ Ophthalmology and Surgical health services at
Grey’s Hospital, taking into consideration safety risks assessments and
patient safety incidents prevention and reporting. Manage the utilization
and supervision of all resources, taking into consideration cost
containment measures. Manage, coordinate and plan the provision of
effective training and research, focusing on the program ms aimed at the
improvement of Orthopaedics/Ophthalmology and Surgical services in the
nursing units. Manage staff performance by implementing the
performance management system of the department of health. Manage
and instill discipline, professionalism and work ethics among employees.
Develop strategies which will ensure compliance to quality care, infection
prevention and control (IPC) programs e.g. Ideal hospital realization and
maintenance (IHRM) and Norms and Standards (N&S). Maintain a
constructive working environment with the multi-disciplinary team
members. Provide effective support to Nursing services e.g. assist with
relief duties to nursing management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr F.S. Matibela Tel No: (033) 897 3331
NOTE : The Employment Equity Target for this post is: African Male and African
Female.
POST 10/71 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING REF NO: GS 6/25 (X1 POST)
(Specialty)- Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Science
Component: Nursing
SALARY : R656 964 per annum. Plus 13th cheque, medical aid (optional),
Homeowners allowance (employee must meet the prescribed
requirements)
CENTRE : Greys Hospital, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate Degree/Diploma in General Nursing and Midwifery 1
Year Post–basic Nursing qualification in Advanced Midwifery and
Neonatal Nursing Science Current registration with the South African
Nursing Council ( 2025 SANC receipt) A minimum of 9 years appropriate
experience in Nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the
SANC in General Nursing of which 5 years of the period referred to above
must be appropriate/recognizable experience after obtaining the one year
60
post basic qualification in Advanced Midwifery and NeoNatal Nursing
Science Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit proof of all
documents and Certificate of Service endorsed by Human Resources The
Employment Equity Target For This Post Is: African Male, African Female
Knowledge, Skills, Attributes And Abilities Knowledge of nursing care
processes and procedures, nursing statutes, and other relevant legal
frameworks such as: Nursing act, Occupational health and safety act,
Patients’ rights charter, Bathe Pele principles, Public service regulations,
Labor relations act, Disciplinary codes and procedures, Grievance
procedure, Financial and budgetary knowledge pertaining to the relevant
resources under management Insight into procedures and policies
pertaining to nursing care. Leadership, organizational, decision making
and problem-solving abilities within the limit of the public sector and
institutional policy framework Interpersonal skills including public
relations, negotiating, conflict handling and counselling skills. Computer
skills in basic programs.
DUTIES : Assist in planning/organizing and monitoring of objectives of the obstetrics
and Gynaecology unit. Manage and provide therapeutic environment for
staff, patients and the public accessing health care services at Grey’s
hospital Demonstrate effective communication to patients, families,
multidisciplinary team members and other stake holders within the
hospital Ensure that high quality nursing care is rendered to all clients
accessing maternal and child health services at Grey’s Hospital, taking
into consideration safety risks assessments and patient safety incidents
prevention and reporting. Manage the utilization and supervision of all
resources, taking into consideration cost containment measures. Manage,
coordinate and plan the provision of effective training and research,
focusing on the programs aimed at the improvement Maternal and Child
care nursing. Manage and instill discipline, professionalism and work
ethics among employees. Develop strategies which will ensure
compliance to quality care, infection prevention and control (IPC)
programs e.g. Ideal hospital realization and maintenance (IHRM) and
Norms and Standards (N&S). Maintain a constructive working
environment with the multi-disciplinary team members. Provide effective
support to Nursing services e.g. assist with relief duties to nursing
management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr F.S. Matibela Tel No: (033) 897 3331
POST 10/72 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST- (GENERAL SURGERY) (GRADE 1,2,3) REF
NO: GS 9/25 (X2 POSTS)
Sessional Posts – 10 Hours Per Session
Component: General Surgery
SALARY : Grade 1: R318 240 per annum
Grade 2: R362 960 per annum
Grade 3: R420 680 per annum
CENTRE : Greys Hospital, Pietermaritzburg Metropolitan Hospitals Complex
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate MBChB or equivalent qualification in the Health Science
Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in
General Surgery, which must include an FCS (SA) and MMED completion
and adequate time in a general surgery registrar program. Applicants
awaiting registration with the HPCSA as a specialist general surgeon can
apply and will require registration as a specialist before commencing
employment in the post Current registration (2024-2025) with HPCSA for
Independent Practice. Certificate of registration as a Specialist General
Surgeon and for Independent Practice on commencing employment in the
post. Grade 1: Experience: Not applicable; Registration with the HPCSA
as a Medical Specialist Grade 2: Experience: 5 Years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in the relevant discipline. Grade 3: Experience: 10
Years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Specialist after registration
61
with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in the relevant discipline. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit proof of all documents,
certificate of service endorsed by HR Department. Knowledge, Skills,
Attributes and Abilities: Knowledge of appropriate specialist level
procedures and protocols within the field of general surgery Specialist will
be required to run the Breast, Endocrine and Renal Surgery Unit. Sound
knowledge of Human Resource management. Financial Management –
monitoring of expenditure, Essential Drug List, Management functions –
policy analysis and implementation, strategic management, project
management, information management, total quality management and
improvement, legal aspects, patient care and service delivery, applicable
mandatory requirements and Acts, Regulations, Protocols and Guidelines
used in Health Services.
DUTIES : Participate in the delivery of in-patient and out-patient general surgery
service esp. breast and endocrine service within the Pietermaritzburg
Metropolitan Hospitals Complex based at Grey’s hospital Management of
patients requiring general surgery Assisting in the management of the
surgical database Inter-disciplinary coordination of the management of
general surgery patients Supervision of the surgical trainees and interns
rotating through the unit Ensuring the highest standards of clinical,
professional, and ethical behaviour Undertake teaching of interns,
undergraduate medical students, postgraduate general surgery trainees,
and allied health care personnel Conduct, assist, and stimulate research
within the ethical guidelines of the Health Care Act Develop
management protocols for the general surgery service in accordance
with the Hospital and Department policies; Provide appropriate surgical
care to general surgery patients; Position will be in the Breast, Endocrine
and Renal Surgical Unit Maintain the effective and efficient utilisation of
human resources in respect of : overseeing and supervising general
surgery staff in the execution of their duties; training staff and promoting
ongoing staff development in accordance with their individual and
departmental development needs; recruiting and selecting staff in
accordance with government prescripts; assessing performance of general
surgery staff; allocating general surgery personnel to respective wards and
call roster Provide measures and guidance on quality assurance to comply
with set quality standards; Exercise cost control over the activities of the
department in line with the allocated budget; Accept responsibility for
continuous professional development to keep up to date with new
developments in the field of expertise and related fields. Any other duties
as assigned by the Head of Department.
ENQUIRIES : Dr R Sathiram Tel No: (033) 897 3379
NOTE : The Employment Equity Target for this post is: African Male and African
Female.
DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY
The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Provincial Treasury is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer and preference will be given to previously disadvantaged groups.
APPLICATIONS : KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Treasury, P O Box 3613, Pietermaritzburg,
3200 or 145 Chief Albert Luthuli Road, Pietermaritzburg, 3200.
Applications can also be submitted via the e-services system, please
assess this site eservices.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms L Mthimunye
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
NOTE : The new Z83 form must be used effective 1st January 2021 and can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies.The Z83 must be
accompanied by a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted
applicants will be contacted and requested to submit their supporting
documents. The Department will also conduct reference checks with HR
of current /previous employer(s) besides the references provided on CV.
Candidates will be subjected security screening and a technical
assessment. Under no circumstances will be faxed, emailed and late
62
applications be accepted. The Department discourages applications that
are registered and will not be held responsible for applications sent via
registered mail which are not collected from the post office. It is the
responsibility of the applicant to ensure that the application reaches the
Department timeously. Should you not hear from the Department within 3
months of the closing date, please regard your application as
unsuccessful. Regrettably, due to excessive budget cuts, the department
is not in a position to meet any travel and subsistence costs relating to
recruitment processes, or relocation and resettlement costs for successful
candidates. Preferences: African Males, African Females and people with
disabilities who meet the requirements.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 10/73 : TECHNICAL ADVISOR: TRANSVERSAL FINANCIAL SYSTEMS REF
NO: KZNPT 25/12
(3 Year Fixed Term Contract)
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum, (all-inclusive annual package)
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate Information Technology Systems qualification (NQF
level 7). A post graduate qualification preferably in Information
Technology Systems (NQF level 8) will be an added advantage. A
minimum of 5 years’ senior management experience in the Information
Technology Systems environment dealing with Provincial and National
Financial and related systems. Knowledge and experience in project
management of IT projects is also a requirement (from conceptualization,
implementation and monitoring significant provincial IT projects).
Knowledge of solutions and systems for enhanced data analytics. Driver’s
license is required. The Nyukela SMS pre-entry certificate is a
requirement for appointment. Skills, Knowledge, and Competencies:
Knowledge of PFMA and Treasury Regulations, Supply chain
management practices and instructions, strategic planning and analytical
skills. Advanced knowledge of BAS, PERSAL, Hardcat, LOGIS and the
Biometric Access Control systems. Proficiency in project management,
report writing, and in MS packages i.e. word, excel and power point.
DUTIES : Provide technical advisory services on all transversal Financial
Information Technology Systems (FITS) support offered by KZN
Provincial Treasury to the KZN Provincial Administration. Ensure the
continuous enhancement of the transversal FITS to improve systems
efficiency. Provide technical advisory services on the implementation of
new and advanced FITS solutions for the province and the department to
ensure value for money and enhance business efficiencies. Provide
technical advisory services on the performance of all external FITS
services providers. Prepare and submit periodic reports to the Head of
KZN Treasury. Conduct research and propose progressive development
on FITS. Developing data analytical capability to enhance financial
reporting and the implementation of a provincial SCM system.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Coetzee Tel No: (033) 897 4583
63
ANNEXURE J
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
It is the strategic intent of the Department to promote employment equity in terms of race, gender
and disability through the filling of these posts with candidates whose transfer, promotion or
appointment will promote equitable representativity in line with the numeric targets as contained in
the departmental Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : Fully completed and signed Z83 employment application form, quoting
reference number should be addressed to the Head: Economic
Development and Tourism. Applications can be hand delivered to
Nokuthula Simelane Building, 1st Floor, No 7 Government Boulevard,
Riverside Park, Extension 02 Mbombela 1201 or alternatively applications
emailed to the respective email address provided for each post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025 at 16h00
NOTE : It is compulsory to fill all fields on the New Amended Z83 Form
(No.81/971431) as prescribed with effect from 01 January 2021, which
must be signed, initialled and dated. The form is obtainable at any National
or Provincial Department(s), www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp.
Applicants must indicate the Post, Reference Number on the Z83 Form
application. The new Z83 Form must be accompanied by a recent updated
curriculum vitae with full personal details, experience, including three (3)
names of contactable referees and it is the applicant’s responsibility to
have all foreign qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of
such evaluation report (only when shortlisted).DPSA Circular 19 of 2022
paragraph 2.1.5 states that Part E, F and G :Noting that there is limited
space provided applicants often indicate “refer to Curriculum Vitae or see
as attached”, this is acceptable as long as the CV has been attached and
provides the required information. If the information is not provided in the
CV, the applicant may be disqualified. The question related to conditions
that prevent re-appointment under Part F must be answered. Applications
received after closing date will not be accepted. Only shortlisted
candidates for the post will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of the interviews. It will be expected of candidate(s) to
be available for interview process on a date, time and place as determined
by the Department. Shortlisted candidate(s) will be required to undergo
personal suitability checks, which include criminal records, citizenship,
financial credits/assets, qualifications verification and previous
employment background/reference checks will be verified. Candidates will
be subject to security screening and vetting. Candidates on MMS posts
will be subjected to a competence assessment. Applicants must disclose
if /he is not a Director/Shareholder of a company or conducting any
business with Organ of State and whether is performing any additional
remunerative work outside his/her normal duties. The successful
candidate will enter into an Annual Performance Agreement, and annually
disclose his/her financial interest. If you have not been contacted within
three (3) months after the closing date, please accept that your application
was unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to make
appointment. SMS Posts: The requirements for appointment at Senior
Management Service level include the successful completion of Senior
Management Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School
of Government, which can be accessed using the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.
Candidates must provide proof of successful completion of the course
prior to appointment. Following the interview and technical exercise(s), the
selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Core
competencies: Strategic capacity and leadership. People management
64
and empowerment. Advanced programme and project management.
Change management. Financial management. Process Competencies:
Knowledge management. Service Delivery Innovation. Advance problem
solving and analysis. Client orientation and customer focus. Advanced
communication skills (written and verbal). The successful candidate will
be appointed subject to positive results of a pre-employment screening
process, which includes criminal records, and verification of educational
qualification certificates. Candidates requiring additional information
regarding advertised post must direct their enquiries to the relevant
person indicated. Communication and correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 10/74 : DIRECTOR: ECONOMIC EMPOWERNMENT REF NO: DEDT
2024/25/24
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), total cost to employer that consists of
basic salary, state contribution to Government Employee Pension Fund
and flexible portion that an employee may structure according to personal
needs.
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate SAQA recognized NQF level seven (07) tertiary
qualification in Economics/Business Management or equivalent
qualification with five (05) years relevant work experience at a
middle/senior managerial level. A postgraduate qualification will be an
added advantage. Proven experience in Government policies and
programmes. Sound knowledge and experience in small businesses and
Women Empowerment Legislative Frameworks, Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) and Project Management. Knowledge and
skills: Computer skills (Microsoft Office Package), Good communication
(written and verbal), Interpersonal Relations & Facilitation skills,
Stakeholder networking, Organizational and Presentation skills. Ability to
work independently as well as in a team under extreme pressure. Strong
Project and team management skills. Strong oral and written
communication skills, including report writing. Knowledge of Government
budgeting processes. Competencies: A preferable candidate must
competently display these competencies: strategic capability, leadership,
programme and project management, financial and management,
knowledge management, service delivery innovation, problem solving and
analysis, people management and empowerment, client orientation,
customer focus and communication, honesty and integrity.
DUTIES : Designing, implementing and monitoring programs aimed at enhancing
the economic capabilities of individuals and communities often focussing
on marginalized groups by facilitating access to skills training, business
development support and network opportunities to promote sustainable
economic development in the green economy, mining, agriculture, tourism
and manufacturing. Facilitate the implementation of all economic
empowerment charters in all the sectors of our provincial economy.
Support the initiative to establish partnership within mining. Support MSI
Training and incubation programme. Oversee and report on the
implementation of policies, programmes, mechanisms and interventions
that promote women, youth, black owned businesses and persons with
disabilities. Manage/ strengthen and input on policies and programme that
mainstream the social transformation and economic empowerment of
women, youth and persons with disabilities in South Africa. Management
of governance within Economic Empowerment Directorate. Initiate and
implement programmes that support the revitalization of rural and
township economy. Identification of black owned companies participating
in the green economy, mining value chain, tourism sector and
manufacturing sector and link them with relevant stakeholders to get the
appropriate support and funding. Identify and profile black owned
65
companies in the province and develop a database of all empowered
initiative. Management of all resources within the Directorate and handle
all Auditor General queries and findings.
ENQUIRIES : Ms IN Phiri Tel No: (013) 766 4467
APPLICATIONS : Email to recruitmentdedt1@mpg.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 10/75 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TRADE DEVELOPMENT AND PROMOTION
REF NO: DEDT 2024/25/25
SALARY : R1 003 890 per annum (Level 12), total cost to the employer, consisting
of basic salary, state contribution to Government Employee Pension Fund
and flexible potion that an employee may structure according to personal
needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate SAQA recognized NQF level seven (07) tertiary
qualification in Economics and Business Administration with three (3)
years relevant work experience at junior management level. Knowledge
of the legal framework in the following areas but not limited to Public
Finance Management, International Trade and Promotion. Work
experience in export and training of emerging businesses. Understanding
of the South African economy, economic data and the ability to draw
inference from them. Understanding of the National and Provincial
sectors. Ability to interact with industry key players across sectors. The
successful candidate must be able to display the following competencies:
strong analytical capabilities report writing, leadership, programme and
project management, financial management, service delivery innovation,
problem solving and analysis, people management and empowerment,
client orientation, communication, honesty and integrity, advanced
computer skills and valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage the development and the implementation of export, investment
promotion policies and strategies. Manage the implementation of bi-lateral
trade agreements. Facilitate and coordinate trade and commerce
activities to support industry development. Liaise with all spheres of
government and all stakeholders on trade and investment related
initiatives. Manage the co-ordination of both domestic and international
trade exhibition and give advice on Export Marketing and Investment
Assistance (EMIA) schemes available within the DTIC and any other
exporter’s schemes. Management of governance within the sub-
directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LP Mabaso Tel No: (013) 766 4424
APPLICATIONS : Email to recruitmentdedt3@mpg.gov.za
POST 10/76 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CONSUMER EDUCATOR REF NO: DEDT
2024/25/26
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11), total cost to the employer, consisting of
basic salary, state contribution to Government Employee Pension Fund
and flexible potion that an employee may structure according to personal
needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate SAQA recognized NQF level seven (07) tertiary
qualification in Economics or Business Management with three (3) years
relevant work experience at junior management level. Knowledge of the
legal framework, Public Finance Management, understanding of the
South African economy, Knowledge of the legal framework, Public
Finance Management Act 01, 1999 and other relevant prescripts.
Knowledge of the Mpumalanga Economic Regulator, 2017. Liquor Act 59
of 2003, Mpumalanga Consumer Affairs Regulations, Mpumalanga
Consumer Protection Act 68 of 2008. Economic data and the ability to
draw inference from them, understanding of the National and Provincial
66
sectors. Ability to interact with industry key players across sectors. The
successful candidate must be able to display the following competencies:
strong analytical capabilities report writing, leadership, programme and
project management, financial management, service delivery innovation,
problem solving and analysis, people management and empowerment,
client orientation, communication, honesty and integrity, advanced
computer skills and valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Lead a team of Consumer Educators in conducting workshops,
roadshows, consumer aware campaigns, radio interviews and liaise with
affected bodies. Disseminate consumer related information. Collect and
collate data to determine the impact of education and awareness
programmes. Review and update provincial consumer related policies and
legislations. Management of staff within the sub-directorate. Manage
budget within the sub-directorate. Attend provincial and national
consumer protection meetings.
ENQUIRIES Mr SJ Xaba Tel No: (013) 766 4164
APPLICATIONS : Email to recruitmentdedt2@mpg.gov.za
POST 10/77 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT PROMOTION
REF NO: DEDT 2024/25/27
SALARY : R552 081 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Head Office: Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate SAQA recognized NQF level seven (06) tertiary
qualification in Economics and Business Administration with three (3) to
five (5) years relevant work experience in the field. Knowledge of the legal
framework, Public Finance Management, International Trade and
Promotion, work experience in export and training of emerging
businesses, understanding of the South African economy, economic data
and the ability to draw inference from them, understanding of the National
and Provincial sectors. Ability to interact with industry key players across
sectors. The successful candidate must be able to display the following
competencies: strong analytical capabilities report writing, leadership,
programme and project management, financial management, service
delivery innovation, problem solving and analysis, people management
and empowerment, client orientation, communication, honesty and
integrity, advanced computer skills and valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Assist and provide support in the development and the implementation of
export, investment promotion policies and strategies. Promote all
opportunities. Lead the implementation of bi-lateral trade agreements.
Facilitate and coordinate trade and commerce activities to support
industry development. Liaise with all spheres of government and all
stakeholders on trade and investment related initiatives. Provide support
in the coordination of both domestic and international and trade
exhibitions. Provide inputs in the preparation of awareness workshops for
trade and investment sessions. Supervising staff as assigned including
prioritizing and assigning work.
ENQUIRIES : Ms FP Sibiya Tel No: (013) 766 4490
APPLICATIONS : Email to recruitmentdedt4@mpg.gov.za
POST 10/78 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS REF NO: DEDT
2024/25/28
SALARY : R552 081 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Head Office: Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate SAQA recognized NQF level seven (06) tertiary
qualification in Economics, post graduate qualification in Economics will
be an advantage, with at least two (2) to three (03) years relevant work
experience as economist/economic researcher. Practical knowledge and
experience in economic research. Demonstrate good knowledge and
work experience in the application of quantitative and qualitative research
methodologies, as well as research report writing. Advanced competency
67
in computer skills (especially MS Word, Excel and Power Point), as well
as very good written and verbal/presentation communication skills. Good
planning, organizing, leadership, teamwork, project management,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Knowledge of relevant
government legislation such as the Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Public Finance Management Act and Treasury regulations,
Basic Accounting System, Government Budget Processes, as well as the
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, good governance and Batho
Pele principles. The successful candidate must be able to display the
following competencies: strong analytical capabilities report writing,
leadership, programme and project management, financial management,
service delivery innovation, problem solving and analysis, people
management and empowerment, client orientation, communication,
honesty and integrity, advanced computer skills and valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Assist to conduct socio-economic research to inform the provincial
planning, policy and Budget processes and thereby contributing to an
inclusive, diversified and growing economy. Assist to conduct and co-
ordinate economic research to analyse, amongst others, the impact of
economic developments and economic policy on the provincial economy,
the performance of various economic industries in Mpumalanga and the
state of various provincial socio-economic indicators. Assist to compile
and manage socio-economic data/information of municipalities in the
province through profiling, research reports, forums and consultations.
Participate in economic research planning and identification of relevant
research topics, in line with the mandate of the Department. Render an
economic analysis service and advice to relevant stakeholders, building
partnerships; participate in research forums and co-ordination in the
province. Disseminate economic data/information and research findings
to relevant decision-making forums and stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms FP Sibiya Tel No: (013) 766 4490
APPLICATIONS : recruitmentdedt4@mpg.gov.za
POST 10/79 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HR PLANNING AND PMDS REF NO: DEDT
2024/2025/29
SALARY : R552 081 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate SAQA recognized NQF level 6 tertiary qualification in
human resource management or equivalent qualification with five (05)
relevant work experience. Post establishment administration, employment
equity and performance management. Knowledge of the government
frameworks, PERSAL system, performance management and
development system, human resource and related prescripts with verbal
and written communication skills, computer literacy i.e. Microsoft word,
excel, PowerPoint, ability to manage conflict and to work under pressure
and ability to analyse, interpret and apply legislation, policies and
prescripts.
DUTIES : Administer human resource planning, employment equity; compile human
resource cost per head, posts establishment, policy development and
performance management and development system in the department.
Provide support and guidance with regarding to human resource planning
process and manage the posts establishment of the approved post
structure i.e. the creation or abolishment of posts. Administer performance
contracting and reviews, annual performance assessments and
performance management database. Provide advices, conduct
educational, and awareness on human resource planning, performance
management and development system and related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Mabuza Tel No: (013) 766 4140
APPLICATIONS : Email to recruitmentdedt6@mpg.gov.za
68
POST 10/80 : BUSINESS ADVISOR: ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DEDT
2025/25/30
SALARY : R376 413 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District Office, Ermelo
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate SAQA recognized NQF level 6 tertiary qualification in
Economics or Business Management or relevant qualification (Degree or
Diploma). Experience in the field of business/enterprise development and
CIPC services is recommended. Skills and knowledge in presentation,
problem solving, client relation, good communication, computer, and must
be able to work in teams. The official must be willing to work under
pressure. A driver’s license is critical for the job.
DUTIES : Develop and support Enterprises in the Province. Interact with
Departments, agencies that are involved in Enterprise development both
national and provincial including Municipalities. Facilitate funding of
MSME`s and Cooperatives in order to start or grow their businesses.
Facilitate non- financial support for Cooperatives and MSME`s. The
official is to assist in the review, development and implementation of
policies and legislative prescript, business registration and strategies that
seeks to develop, support, and govern MSME and Cooperatives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LP Mabaso Tel No: (013) 766 4424
APPLICATIONS : Email to recruitmentdedt3@mpg.gov.za
POST 10/81 : BUSINESS ADVISOR: ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT REF NO: DEDT
2024/25/31
SALARY : R376 413 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Ehlanzen District Office-Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate SAQA recognized NQF level 6 tertiary qualification in
Economics/ Business Management or equivalent qualification with two
(02) years relevant work experience. Knowledge of BBBEE Act, BBBEE
Codes of Good Practice, Sector Charters, Employment Equity Act,
Provincial & National Macro-economic policies. Good verbal and written
communication skills, Analytical skills and Presentation skills. Advanced
Computer skills and valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Facilitate the establishment of BEE firms in the beneficiation chain.
Monitor the implementation of BBBEE codes of good practice and Sector
codes in all sectors of the provincial economy. Facilitate procurement by
government and private sector from BEE establishments. Support the
activities of the Provincial BBBEE Advisory Committee. Facilitate
establishment of database for BEE companies. Advise both private and
public sector stakeholders on BEE.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Ndlala Tel No: (013) 766 4472
APPLICATIONS : Email to recruitmentdedt5@mpg.gov.za
POST 10/82 : TRADE ADVISOR: TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DEDT
2024/25/32
SALARY : R376 413 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District Office-Ermelo
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate SAQA recognized NQF level 6 tertiary qualification in
Economics or Business Management or relevant qualification. Excellent
written and verbal communication skills, good interpersonal skills,
analytical skills, report writing and good computer skills.
DUTIES : Assist in conducting capacity building on trade matters. Assist in
identifying new export markets in and outside South Africa. Assist in
identifying gaps in the export market. Make inputs to the reviewing trade
and investment policies and strategies, assistance to emerging and
current provincial exporters on export matters and the export awareness
programme. Provide support activities of ad-hoc projects i.e. water,
bottling plant, Mkhondo Agri-hub.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LP Mabaso Tel No: (013) 766 4424
69
APPLICATIONS : Email to recruitmentdedt3@mpg.gov.za
POST 10/83 : CONSUMER EDUCATOR REF NO: DEDT 2024/25/33
SALARY : R376 413 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate SAQA recognized NQF level six (06) tertiary qualification
in Law Business Management or equivalent qualification with two (02)
years relevant work experience. Knowledge of National Consumer
Protection Act 68 of 2008 and Mpumalanga Consumer Affairs Act 06 of
1998. Presentation, investigative and analytical skills, computer literacy
and valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Implement educational and awareness programmes to ensure protection
of consumers and to create a conducive environment for just and fair
trade. Conduct educational and awareness workshops on consumer
related matters through radio slots, road shows, workshops and social
media platforms. Collate, monitor and evaluate questionnaires/data to
assess the impact of education and awareness programmes. Conduct
constant research on consumer related matters and trends.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Mabuza Tel No: (013) 766 4140
APPLICATIONS : Email to recruitmentdedt6@mpg.gov.za
POST 10/84 : ASSET CONTROLLER REF NO: DEDT 2024/25/34
SALARY : R376 413 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, an appropriate SAQA recognized NQF level six (06) tertiary
qualification in Financial Management/ Supply Chain Management/
Purchasing / Logistics / Public Administration / Finance /Accounting /
Economics / Internal Audit with a minimum of two (2) years experience in
Asset Management environment. Valid Driver's License. Knowledge of
Basic Accounting System (BAS), GRAP and LOGIS. Computer literacy
with sound knowledge of the MS Office suite preferably Excel.
Demonstrate leadership/ interpersonal relationship and asset
management skills. Good client service orientation skills.
DUTIES : Ensure that assets are properly accounted for in the Asset Register and
complies with National Treasury Guidelines. Update new additions,
movements, transfers and disposals. Reconcile BAS with the Asset
Register on monthly basis. Monitor all entries made on the Asset Register
as per minimum requirements. Retiring of all losses and disposed assets
in the register. Update inventory lists. Ensure that asset policies,
procedures and guidelines are implemented and ensure compliance
thereof. Ensure that the Department’s asset requirements are included in
the budget. Perform quarterly asset count. Conduct bi –annual physical
verification of movable assets and reconcile against the Asset Register.
Implement and manage registers for Finance Leases. Verify the existence
of Finance Leases and prepare monthly reconciliation between BAS and
amortization tables versus the Finance Leases register. Ensure
reconciling items are cleared. Ensure proper annual reporting and
reconciliations. Quality assurance of asset management processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Ndlala Tel No: (013) 766 4370
APPLICATIONS : Email to recruitmentdedt5@mpg.gov.za
70
ANNEXURE K
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHWEST
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SETTLEMENTS
APPLICATIONS : Completed applications should be forwarded to the Director: Human
Resource Management: Department of Human Settlements,
hsjobs@nwpg.gov.za, 2735, hand deliver to Cnr Provident Drive and
University Drive, West wing 2nd floor Garona Building, Mmabatho.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2024, Time (16H00)
NOTE : Directions to Applicants: Applications must be submitted on the prescribed
form, new Z83 (properly completed), obtainable from any Public Service
office. A comprehensive CV with competencies, experience and with full
names addresses and telephone numbers of at least three referees.
Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents on applications, however shortlisted candidates must
submit other relevant documents to HR on or before the day of the
interview and must be certified. Please note: It is a responsibility of a
person in possession of a foreign qualification to furnish the Department
with an evaluation certificate from South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA) (only when shortlisted) Applications should be forwarded in time
to the Department, since applications received after the closing date
indicated below will, as a rule, not be accepted. It will be expected of
candidates to be available for interviews on a date and time and at a place
as determined by the Department. Please note if you have not heard from
us within three (03) months after the closing, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. NB: Senior Management Pre-entry
Programme Certificate: No applicant shall be recommended for
appointment without producing a Certificate of completion for the Nyukela
Programme (SMS Pre - Entry Programme) offered by the National School
of Government which can be accessed via this link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za. Successful SMS Shortlisted candidates will
be subjected to a technical assessment and the selected interviewed
candidates will undertake a two-day competency assessment at a venue
and date determined by the Department. The competency assessment
test generic managerial competencies using mandated DPSA SMS
competency assessment tool. Appointment of successful candidate (s)
will be strictly subject to the Personnel Suitability Checks results/outcome
prior to appointment. Failure to comply with the above requirements will
result in the disqualification of the application. The applicants should state
the applicable reference number with the relevant post. Candidates
requiring additional information regarding the advertised post must direct
their enquiries to the relevant person indicated on enquiries. Directions
on How to Fill in the New Z83 Form NB: Candidate should note the
following information on the new Z83 application form: Part A: All fields
must be completed in full. Part B: All fields must be completed in full
except when: Passport number: South African applicants need not provide
passport numbers An applicant has responded “No” to the question “Are
you conducting business with the State? or are you a Director of a Public
or Private company conducting business with the state? If yes (provide
details)”, then it is acceptable for an applicant to indicate not applicable or
leave blank to the question, “in the event that you are employed in the
Public Service, will you immediately relinquish such business interest?” “If
your profession or occupation requires official registration, provide date
and particulars of registration” – Some applicants may not be in
possession of such therefore it is acceptable if left blank or if not applicable
is indicated. Part C: All fields must be completed Part D: All fields must be
completed Part E, F, G: Noting that there is limited space provided
applicants often indicate “refer to Curriculum Vitae (CV) or see attached”,
this is acceptable as long as the CV has been attached and provides the
required information. If the information is not provided in the CV, the
applicant may be disqualified. It must be noted that a CV is an extension
71
of the application of employment Z83, and applicants are accountable for
the information that is provided therein. The questions related to
conditions that prevent reappointment under part F must be answered.
Declaration must be completed and signed. The North-West Department
of Human Settlements is an Affirmative Action Employer with the intention
of promoting representatively (race, gender and disability) through the
filling of these posts. The posts are open for everyone, but preference will
be given to people with disabilities and women in SMS. NB: The
department reserves the right not to make appointments. Correspondence
will be limited to short-listed candidates only.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 10/85 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO: H/S 10/ 24/25
Component: Chief Directorate Corporate Services
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum (Level 14). The inclusive remuneration Package
consist of the Basic Salary, contribution to Government Employee
Pension Fund, Medical Fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable
rules. The successful candidate must enter a performance agreement and
sign employee contract.
CENTRE : Head Office (Mmabatho)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade12 Degree (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Human
Resource /Management/ Industrial Psychology/ (Business/ Public)
Administration/ Law/ Communications. Minimum five (5) years’ relevant
experience at Senior Management/Director level in corporate services
functions A valid driver’s license. Extensive Travelling. Nyukela certificate
will be required at the time of appointment Competencies/ Knowledge and
skills: Public Service Corporate Services prescripts, Government
Priorities. PFMA, Treasury Regulations, PSA, PSR Labour relations,
Reporting Procedures, Information Systems, Regulations and
Amendments, SA Constitution, Employment Equity Act of 1998,
Interpreting and Evaluating Information. Strategic Capability and
Leadership Project and Programme management Financial management
Change management People management and empowerment.
Communication, Computer Literacy, Problem Solving and conflict
management and Negotiation, Tact and Diplomacy, Teamwork and
discipline.
DUTIES : Oversee Management of Information Communication and Technology
services. Oversee provision of Human Resources and Utilization
Management. Oversee Management of Security and Work environment
services. Oversee implementation of Strategic Management, Monitoring
and Evaluation services. Oversee Provision of Legal Services, Manage
Audit and Management Queries. Management of Staff Performance and
ad hoc tasks as delegated by HOD.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MK Mahlobo Tel No: (018) 388 2899
POST 10/86 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN SETTLEMENTS PROJECT MANAGEMENT: DR
KENNETH KAUNDA DISTRICT REF NO: H/S 11/ 24/25
Component: Housing Development
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13). The inclusive remuneration Package
consist of the Basic Salary, contribution to Government Employee
Pension Fund, Medical Fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable
rules. The successful candidate must enter a performance agreement and
sign employee contract.
CENTRE : Head Office (Mmabatho)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade 12; Degree / Postgraduate (NQF Level 7) as recognised by
SAQA in Project Construction Management/Built Environment/Civil
Engineering studies. Minimum 5 years’ relevant experience at
middle/senior managerial level. Nyukela Certificate will be required at the
time of appointment. A valid driver’s License. Extensive Travelling.
72
Competencies/Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of the Constitution of
RSA 1996, applicable Construction and Public service legislation and
regulatory requirements. In-depth understanding of the build environment.
Strategic Capability and Leadership Project and Programme
management Financial management Change management People
management and empowerment. Construction knowledge and legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Knowledge of Government supply
chain bid management process. In-depth knowledge and application of
Human Settlements process and procedures. Good interpersonal skills.
Ability to manage relations with stakeholders.
DUTIES : Overall management of the regional budget. Ensure on-time procurement
of projects in the region. Oversee and direct construction projects from
conception to completion. Manage project cost overruns daily and ensure
a balance between project non-financial and financial performance.
Coordinate and supervise construction inspectors. Select tools, materials,
and equipment and track inventory. Meet contractual conditions of
performance. Review regional/ District work performance on progress
daily. Ensure adherence to all health and safety standards and report
issues. Prepare internal and external reports on regional performance.
Plan to prevent problems and resolve any emerging ones. Undertake
contract reviews on a regular basis and take necessary consequence
management where performance is not satisfactory. Analyse, manage,
and mitigate risks. Manage office and technical staff and resolve any staff
problems. Respond to service delivery issues related to projects
implemented in the region. Management of Intergovernmental relations
between key stakeholders in the built industry and three spheres of
government.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. V Bidi Tel No: (018) 388 5510
OTHER POSTS
POST 10/87 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STATUTORY BODIES SECRETARIAT
SERVICES REF NO: H/S 12/ 24/25
Component: Statutory Bodies Secretariat Support Services
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11). The inclusive remuneration Package
consist of the Basic Salary, contribution to Government Employee
Pension Fund, Medical Fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable
rules. The successful candidate must enter a performance agreement and
sign employee contract.
CENTRE : Head Office (Mmabatho)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade 12; Degree /B-Tech / Advanced Diploma (NQF 7) in Public
Administration/Public Management or other related qualifications, 3 – 5
years’ experience as Assistant Director in the related field. A valid Divers
Licence. Extensive Travelling. Competencies/ Knowledge and skills:
Knowledge of Human Settlements/ Rental Tribunal and Public Service
Administration Legislation, Policies and Frameworks. Applied Strategic
Thinking Applying Technology Budgeting and Financial Management
Communication and Information Management Continuous Improvement
Citizen Focus and Responsiveness Developing Others Diversity
Management Impact and Influence Managing Interpersonal Conflict and
Resolving Problems Networking and Building Bonds Planning and
Organising Problem Solving and Decision Making Project Management
Team Leadership. Client Orientation and Customer Care. Strong MS
Excel skills, strong presentation skills.
DUTIES : Provide secretariat support to the Rental Tribunal and other statutory
bodies. Manage complaints in respect of residential rental properties.
Develop and implement a marketing and media strategy for the Rental
Tribunal and other statutory bodies. Manage the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms HH Du Plessis Tel No: (018) 388 3863/ 0836937203
73
POST 10/88 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TRANSFORMATION & KNOWLEDGE
MANAGEMENT REF NO: H/S 13/ 24/25
Component: Strategic Planning Monitoring and Evaluation
SALARY : R849 702 per annum (Level 11). The inclusive remuneration Package
consist of the Basic Salary, contribution to Government Employee
Pension Fund, Medical Fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable
rules. The successful candidate must enter a performance agreement and
sign employee contract.
CENTRE : Head Office (Mmabatho)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent; National Diploma / B Tech/
Degree in Industrial Psychology/ Management Services, Operations
Management or related field. Three (3) years’ experience as Assistant
Director. Valid driver’s license. Extensive Travelling.
Competencies/Knowledge and skills: Change Management Strategies
and methodologies, In-depth knowledge of Batho Pele Principles and
implementation, Policy and Procedure Formulation, Public Service
Prescripts, In-depth knowledge of the Operations Management
Framework (OMF), Computer literacy, Policy analysis and interpretation,
Presentation and report writing skills, Verbal and written communication
skill, Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Coordinate Batho Pele initiatives in the organisation. Coordinate the
implementation of Transformation programmes. Coordinate the
development and implementation Change Management Strategies.
Coordinate Service Delivery Improvement Plans and Service Delivery
Charter. Coordinate the development of the Service Delivery Model.
Coordinate Knowledge Management programmes in the department.
Institutionalise knowledge management capabilities in the Department.
Plan, organise, Coordinates and manage all activities related to the
design, development and implementation of performance data. Promote
and facilitate the compliance to PAIA, POPIA and PAJA. Manage the sub-
Directorate’s resources and Supervise employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr ME Magakwe Tel No: (018) 388 2272
74
ANNEXURE L
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair
treatment in employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on
a date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that
excess personnel will receive preference.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the advert for the Post 09/302:
Ophthalmology Technician Grade 1 To 2: Ophthalmology (Contract Post)
Salary: Grade 1: R 255 078 per annum, Grade 2: R 297 441 per annum
plus 37% in lieu of service benefits. And Experience: Two years of in-
service training on ophthalmic specialised equipment after obtaining Level
1 Ophthalmic Assistant course. advertised in the Public Service Vacancy
09 dated 07 March 2025, with Ref No: Post 3/313 has been amended.
And Kindly note that the advert for the Post 09/323: Tradesman Aid
Central Karoo District Salary: R155 148 per annum, Centre: Laingsburg
Hospital, advertised in the Public Service Vacancy 09 dated 07 March
2025, with Ref No: Post 3/323 has been cancelled.
OTHER POSTS
POST 10/89 : HEAD CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) CRITICAL CARE)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 976 070 per annum, (A portion of the package can be
structured according to the individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as a Medical Specialist in Critical Care (Adult). Experience: A minimum of
3 years appropriate experience as a Medical Specialist after registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Critical Care (Adult).
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as
a Medical Specialist in Critical Care (Adult). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): PhD will be a recommendation. Experience as
examiner/convener in the CMSA Certificate in Critical Care examination.
Appropriate independent research experience. Appropriate experience in
undergraduate and post-graduate teaching. Appropriate experience as a
Medical Specialist in Critical Care in an academic environment with
managerial experience. Excellent interpersonal /relationship building
skills. Good communication skills. Successful post-graduate supervision
(minimum Master’s level). Ability to work in a team.
DUTIES : Overall governance, including Clinical Governance, of the general adult
critical care services. Overall strategic and operational management of the
general adult Critical Care services of the hospital (medical and surgical).
Development, implementation and monitoring of critical care clinical
protocols and guidelines. Manage resource planning, provision and
utilisation in the general critical care services. Govern access to the
general critical care services and its resources. Deliver clinical service in
Critical Care, including commuted overtime. Liaise with hospital
management and clinicians to ensure quality Critical Care services in the
whole Tygerberg drainage area. -Ensure an outreach program to
healthcare facilities in the Tygerberg drainage area. Academic
responsibility for teaching and learning at under- and post-graduate level,
including the faculty’s distributed training platform. Ensure research and
innovation in priority areas. Active participation in relevant provincial
critical care governance structure & advise PGWC: Health on critical care
matters.
75
ENQUIRIES : Prof S Chetty Tel No: (021) 938-9226 or Dr M Mukosi Tel No: (021) 938-
413
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/90 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3
(Forensic Pathology)
Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 271 901per annum
Grade 2: R1 451 214 per annum
Grade 3: R1 680 780 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, Observatory Forensic Pathology
Institute
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as a Medical Specialist in Forensic Pathology. Registration with the
professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist
in Forensic Pathology. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver's
license. Will be required to perform routine service autopsies. Will be
required to deliver expert testimony in court proceedings. Will be required
to perform work duties outside normal working hours and away from base
of employment. Availability to travel to regional facilities to offer a service
for limited periods. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Forensic Pathology. Grade 2: A
minimum of 5 years' appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of foreign qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in
Forensic Pathology. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years' appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist in Forensic Pathology after registration
with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees) as Medical Specialist on Forensic
Pathology. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Above-average computer
and software literacy. Above-average ability to communicate clearly and
discreetly in person and in writing. Knowledge of the functioning of a
Forensic Pathology Department. Ability to teach Medical students,
Forensic Pathology Officers and Medical Staff. Good interpersonal skills
including effective service delivery within a group situation at all levels of
authority. Working knowledge of the legislation, policies, and code of
conduct pertaining to Forensic Pathology practice. Research ability.
Exposure to post-mortems, autopsy work, and dissection. Creativity and
openness to new ideas.
DUTIES : Provide full-time medico-legal death investigative service within the
Division of Forensic Medicine by performance of post-mortems of natural
and unnatural deaths. Provide full-time medico-legal death investigative
service within the Division of Forensic Medicine by compiling and
completing reports, including all ancillary investigations. Expert testimony
in court as well as expert opinion on inquest dockets or the relevant cases
as requested by the Department of Justice. Academic teaching and
Training, Research, Clinical Governance and Quality Assurance. Support
to the Head: Clinical Unit with all administrative functions of the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Dr IJ Molefe, Itumeleng.molefe@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
76
POST 10/91 : SENIOR REGISTRAR (NEPHROLOGY)
(2-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 271 901 per annum, A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as a Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
in Internal Medicine. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (code
B/EB/C1) driver’s license. Commuted overtime is compulsory.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Effective and efficient administration.
Facilitation of management system. Communication including report
generation, letter writing, consultation. Clinical Skills required of a Medical
Specialist Physician (e.g. Assessment, diagnosis and treatment in
inpatient, outpatient, and emergency contexts). MMED and FCP (SA)
qualifications. Technical skills appropriate for investigation.
DUTIES : Clinical Service Provision. Clinical Governance and Administration.
Teaching and Training/Supervision of Junior Staff.
ENQUIRIES : Prof N Wearne Tel No: (021) 404 2024 or nicola.wearne@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Please
ensure that you attach an updated CV. Employees in service who opt to
continue with their pension benefits as Senior Registrar, will be required
to resign after completion of their registrarship should they not be
successful for advertised Medical Sub-Specialist positions. The
Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in
this regard will be appreciated. Specific Senior Registrar posts within the
Department will be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme
to create a representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable
procedures. Preference will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents
with a valid identity document. Senior Registrars will be required to
register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch University/ University of
Cape Town according to the yearbook and guidelines. Groote Schuur
Hospital has adopted the department’s ecosystem framing of its training
platform. Accordingly, all registrar appointments may be called upon to
work across this platform and may include rotations at Metro West and
Rural East hospitals. This includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's
Hospital, New Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria
Hospital and George Provincial Hospital. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that
proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for
registration with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply
for change in registration status) Appointment as Senior Registrar will be
for a maximum contract period of 2 years. Senior Registrars will function
across health facilities, as per an agreed programme. Consideration will
be given to existing employees who are already on higher salary
packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such they
are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Senior Registrar
will be on contract.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
77
POST 10/92 : MEDICAL OFFICER: GRADE 1 TO 3 (PAEDIATRIC MEDICINE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R949 146 per annum
Grade 2: R1 082 988 per annum
Grade 3: R1 253 415 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade
1: None after registration as a Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in
respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience after
registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of who is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years relevant
experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a recognized
foreign Health Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a
Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years
relevant experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job:
Applicants must have a valid APLS certificate. Must provide after-hours
emergency services and participate in commuted overtime. DCH
(Diploma of Child Health). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate
post-internship experience in general paediatrics under onsite supervision
of a registered paediatrician. Ability to work in a professional multi-
disciplinary team. Ability to achieve and maintain good interpersonal
relations with staff, patients and their families. Must assist with the
provision of a comprehensive paediatric service, including initiation of and
involvement in quality improvement projects. Excellent report, clinical note
and referral writing skills. Leadership experience and skills. Initiative,
teamwork, planning, organizing and coordination demonstrated in quality
improvements projects or community projects relevant to child health.
Excellent interpersonal, administrative, communication, analytical and
problem-solving skills. Display empathy for patients and their families,
promote advocacy and facilitate holistic treatment. Good time
management.
DUTIES : In addition to clinical services, outputs include: Teaching (formal and
informal) of undergraduate medical students. Supervising and training
junior medical staff and students in the course of clinical work. Working
within a multi-disciplinary team and providing clinical leadership in the
workplace. Assist HOD with some administrative duties, data collection
and quality improvement projects relevant to child health and improved
service for patients and their families. Improve professional competence
by regular self-learning and reflection with the application of current
evidence. Assist HOD of paediatric department with the efficient delivery
of a high-quality paediatric service at Victoria, a Large Metro District
Hospital within the Southern Sub-District of Cape Town. Effective and
efficient administration of clinical duties. Attend to paediatric referrals from
the Emergency Centre. Provide telephonic paediatric advice to queries
from primary health care professionals within our drainage area. Provide
afterhours paediatric cover.
78
ENQUIRIES : Dr Gill Schermbrucker, email: Gill.Schermbrucker@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered
for appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to
register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day
of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals
who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the
relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/93 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3
SALARY : Grade 1: R949 146 per annum
Grade 2: R1 082 988 per annum
Grade 3: R1 253 415 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as
a Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA-qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as a Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to
perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A
minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-
qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after
registration as a Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it
is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA-qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years’ relevant
experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a recognized
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Registration with a Professional Council:
Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the Health
Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Practitioner.
Inherent requirements of the job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license.
Participation in a rotational shift-based roster that requires work on
weekends, nights and public holidays. Perform commuted overtime and
work after hours as required by operational needs. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in an Emergency Centre.
Knowledge of the South African Triage Scale and Emergency Medicine in
Primary Emergency Care. Competency in resuscitation (participate/lead)
and basic and advanced emergency procedures. Computer literacy Skills.
DUTIES : Provision of Emergency Care using Evidence Based Medicine. Clinical
management of adults, children and neonates. Rational use of scarce
resources and medical record keeping. Clinical governance including
medicolegal documentation & Administrative self-management. Effective
communication and professional conduct. Supervision and teaching of
medical students and junior doctors.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Le Roux Tel No: (021) 918-1733
79
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral
assessment. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or
before the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on
health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply
for change in registration status). The pool of candidates will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Department for a period of
3 months.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/94 : REGISTRAR (MAXILLO & FACIAL ORAL SURGERY: UWC DENTAL
HRTG TRAINING) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(5-Year Contract)
SALARY : R949 146 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual’s personal needs.
CENTRE : Oral Health Centres
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as a Dentist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Dentist. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid driver’s
license. Participation in the commuted overtime system may be required
depending on the service requirements. Primary modules or MBChB.
DUTIES : Rendering of service and research on combined platform as determined
by the Head of department. Undergraduate teaching and training on the
platform of Oral Health Centre (includes satellite clinics) as required by
the Head of department. Completion of the 5 years (60 months) academic
requirements for MChD Degree at UWC. Administration duties as
determined by the Head of Department.
ENQUIRIES : Dr G Hein Tel No: (021) 937 3089
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
Appointment as Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 5 years.
It may become necessary to second/transfer staff to another
hospital/institution during their period of training, in which case affected
staff will be consulted prior to any decision being implemented. Registrars
will function across health facilities, as per an agreed programme. Should
registration with the HEI as a student be discontinued for any reason the
appointment as a Registrar also discontinues. Consideration will be given
to existing employees who are already on higher salary packages to retain
their existing salary position, as personal. -As such they are entitled to
receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be on contract.
Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension benefits as
Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their registrarship
should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions. The
Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in
this regard will be appreciated. -Specific Registrar posts within the
Department will be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme
to create a representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable
procedures. Preference will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents
with a valid identity document. Registrars will be required to register as
post-graduates with University of the Western Cape according to the
80
yearbook and guidelines. -“Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will
only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application
for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment
of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on
or before the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to
candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change
in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be considered for other
vacant similar posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/95 : REGISTRAR (COMMUNITY DENTISTRY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(4-Year Contract)
SALARY : R949 146 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual’s personal needs.
CENTRE : Oral Health Centres
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as a Dentist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Dentist. Inherent requirements of the job: -A valid driver’s
license. Participation in the commuted overtime system may be required
depending on the service requirements. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Additional post graduate qualification in a Public
Health or Dental Public Health field.
DUTIES : Rendering of service and research on combined platform as determined
by the Head of department. Undergraduate teaching and training on the
platform of Oral Health Centre (includes satellite clinics) as required by
the Head of department. Completion of the 4 years (48 months) academic
requirements for MChD Degree at UWC. Administration duties as
determined by the Head of Department.
ENQUIRIES : Prof D Smit Tel No: (021) 937 3148
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
Appointment as Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 4 years.
It may become necessary to second/transfer staff to another
hospital/institution during their period of training, in which case affected
staff will be consulted prior to any decision being implemented. Registrars
will function across health facilities, as per an agreed programme. Should
registration with the HEI as a student be discontinued for any reason the
appointment as a Registrar also discontinues. -Consideration will be given
to existing employees who are already on higher salary packages to retain
their existing salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled to
receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be on contract.
Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension benefits as
Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their registrarship
should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions. -The
Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in
this regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the
Department will be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme
to create a representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable
procedures. Preference will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents
with a valid identity document. Registrars will be required to register as
post-graduates with University of the Western Cape according to the
yearbook and guidelines. “Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will
81
only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application
for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment
of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on
or before the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to
candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change
in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be considered for other
vacant similar posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/96 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (ANAESTHESIA)
SALARY : Grade 1: R949 146 per annum
Grade 2: R1 082 988 per annum
Grade 3: R1 253 415 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : Mitchell’s Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as
Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees.
1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with
a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to
perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner
after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of
SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after
registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it
is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s license. Participation in commuted overtime is compulsory on a
shared 24-hour roster, requiring after-hours, weekend and public holiday
participation. Willingness to participate in teaching, audits, research and
quality improvement projects. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Delivery
of Anaesthesia and related services and care (resuscitation) in high-acuity
trauma and non-trauma General Surgery patients, Anaesthesia for
Orthopaedic Surgery and Obstetrics & Gynaecology. Ability to cope
independently in an environment where there is a disproportionate high-
volume of emergency service workload, in a resource-constrained setting,
where there may be delays to after-hours assistance or back-up. Ability to
work and make clinical decisions independently. Good organizational and
communication skills, and ability to perform tasks cost-effectively and
efficiently. Excellent individual interpersonal and coping skills, and an
ability to perform well within a multi-disciplinary team context. Enthusiasm
to attend training and educational courses to broaden clinical and
managerial skills and knowledge.
DUTIES : Administration of anaesthesia and related duties – pre-operative
assessments and resuscitation, intra-operative management and post-
operative care in the recovery unit and surgical wards. Ensure fully
functional operating theatre equipment, including consumable equipment
stocks and capital equipment functionality. General and neuraxial
82
anaesthesia, procedural sedation and regional nerve plexus blocks where
required. Management and coordination of theatre lists in terms of efficient
utilization of operative resources. Proactive consultation with other theatre
users and theatre nursing staff on a shared-utilisation surgical platform.
Diligent attention to all aspects of medical record-keeping. Teaching,
lecturing and clinical supervision of medical students, interns, rotating
supernumerary registrars, new medical officers and nursing staff.
Participation in clinical audits, surveys, gathering of theatre statistics and
involvement in research projects where required.
ENQUIRIES : Dr J Marszalek Tel No: (021) 3774300
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to
register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day
of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the
relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). The pool of applicants will be considered for other
similar posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services for a
period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/97 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL): PUBLIC HEALTH MEDICINE
Directorate: Health Intelligence / University of Stellenbosch
(4-Year Contract)
SALARY : R949 146 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual’s personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as a Medical Practitioner in the category of independent practice.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as
a Medical Practitioner in the category of independent practice. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Registration for
the MMED in Public Health Medicine at the University of Stellenbosch.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy, and the ability to
learn new technical skills. The candidate must have a strong
understanding of public health, health systems and health policy.
Excellent verbal and written communication skills. Good interpersonal and
time-management skills. The successful candidate is expected to be
technically competent, to align to the values of the Department of Health
and Wellness and to be kind.
DUTIES : Public Health medical service provision in the public sector health
services. Teaching and training/supervision of under and postgraduates
and running training for WCG service personnel. Operational research
and presentation and publication in peer-reviewed scientific fora.
Management, administration and leadership – using public health
expertise to assist administration, management and allocation of
personnel, resources and facilities, and to monitor and evaluate
programmes and projects. Participate in formal training in public health
disciplinary components.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Lesley Shand Tel No: (021) 483-2639 or
lesley.shand@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
Candidates may be subjected to a competency test. As directed by the
83
Department of Public Service and Administration, applicants must note
that further checks will be conducted once they are shortlisted and that
their appointment is subject to positive outcomes on these checks, which
include security clearance, qualification verification, criminal records and
previous employment. Appointment as Registrar will be for a maximum
contract period of 4 years. It may become necessary to second/transfer
staff to another hospital/institution during their period of training, in which
case affected staff will be consulted prior to any decision being
implemented. Registrars will function across health facilities, as per an
agreed programme. Registrars will be required to register as post-
graduates with the applicable University in the Western Cape according
to the requirements for the discipline in the yearbook and guidelines.
Should registration with the HEI as a student be discontinued for any
reason the appointment as a Registrar also discontinues. Consideration
will be given to existing employees who are already on higher salary
packages to retain their existing salary position, as personnel. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Employees in service who
opt to continue with their pension benefits as Registrar, will be required to
resign after completion of their registrarship should they not be successful
for advertised Specialist positions. Candidates who are not in possession
of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for
registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for a change in registration status). Specific
Registrar posts within the Department will be identified as part of the
Affirmative Action programme to create a representative Specialist cadre
in line with applicable procedures.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/98 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (PAEDIATRIC
GASTROENTEROLOGY) (6 SESSIONS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Service
(1 Year Contract)
SALARY : R849 702 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual’s personal needs.)
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National
Diploma (NQF 6)/Degree (NQF7) in accounting or related field. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (code B/EB) driver’s licence. Experience:
Extensive experience in Supply Chain Management in a Health Care
Environment. Preparation and reporting of financial statements.
Appropriate and proven management experience, showing strong
leadership, strategic and operational management skills. Contract
Management. Competencies (Knowledge/Skills): Knowledge of relevant
legislation and regulations, including PFMA, Accounting Officer’s system,
National and Provincial Treasury Regulations and Finance Instructions.
Generally recognised accounting practice, cost and management
accounting. Advanced computer skills using MS Excel, Word, and
PowerPoint with the ability to understand and analyse statistical and
financial information. Proven leadership skills, together with the ability to
influence and motivate others to achieve targets and deadlines. Critical
and innovative thinking, to solve problems to improve organisational
performance. Ability to lead, innovate and drive improved Finance and
Supply Chain Management.
DUTIES : Provide strategic management and leadership, as member of George
Hospital senior management team. Ensure effective Supply Chain
Management including, demand management, warehousing, finance, and
84
asset management. Management of all aspects of Revenue, Patient
Administration and Information Management. Financial management,
reporting and monitoring. Data analysis and review. Identifying trends and
management. Implement effective controls to ensure audit compliance
and good governance. Provision of timely and accurate information
required for strategic decision-making and financial control. Human
resource management and planning.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TJ Kau Tel No: (044) 805 4533
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical and/or competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/99 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY: NEONATAL ICU)
SALARY : R656 964 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse and Midwife. A Post-basic nursing qualification with a
duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in Medical and
Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing: Child or Advanced
Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science. Registration with the
Professional Council: Current registration with the SANC as a
Professional Nurse and Midwife. Inherent requirement of the job: Perform
after-hour and weekend duties Night duty as required. Experience: A
minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. -
At least 5 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in Medical and Surgical Nursing
Science: Critical Care Nursing: Child or Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal
Nursing Science. Competencies (knowledge/skills Principles of
Management: Supervisory, leadership, problem solving, conflict
resolution, and interpersonal/communication skills. Knowledge of Nursing
legislation related to legal and ethical nursing practices and framework.
Human Resources, Labour Relations legislation and Financial
Management, including computer literacy (i.e. MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, and Outlook). Extensive knowledge in General Nursing and
the relevant Nursing Specialty including public sector policies and
protocols. Promote quality of nursing care as directed by the professional
scope of practice and standards determined by the facility.
DUTIES : Provide innovative leadership in the allocated area to realise the strategic
goals and objectives of the Nursing Division. Responsible for the co-
ordination and delivery of quality nursing care within the relevant
department. Participate in the formulation, monitoring, and
implementation of policies, guidelines, standards, procedures, and
regulations pertaining to nursing care within the relevant Department.
Provide effective support and management of human, material, and
financial resources, as well as Functional Business FBU management
principles. Manage staff performance, training, and personal development
of self and subordinates including management of underperformance and
grievances. Collect, provide, and use relevant information for the
enhancement of service delivery, including participation in and
encouragement of nursing research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L.J De Palo Tel No: (021) 404-2105
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
85
POST 10/100 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE)
West Coast District
SALARY : R656 964 per annum, (plus, a non-pensionable rural allowance of 8% of
the basic annual salary)
CENTRE : Op die Berg Clinic, Witzenberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse and Midwife. Post- basic nursing qualification with
duration of at least 1-year Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science: Health
Assessment: Treatment and care accredited with the SANC (R48).
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A minimum of 9 years
appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of
the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience
after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as mentioned above.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal, leadership and
communication skills, strong sense of responsibility. Ability to function
independently in a multi-disciplinary team and the ability to direct the team
to ensure good nursing care. Demonstrate an in-depth knowledge of
nursing and public service legislation. Knowledge of Human Resource
and financial policies. Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel).
DUTIES : Manage, control, act in facet of Health, support, security, cleaning-
Infection control and ground services, personnel matters, including
supervision and Performance Management, Finances and Procuring.
Implement policies, prescripts, and protocols regarding the mentioned
facets. Manage and plan to practice a holistic health service on a
short/medium/long term basis. Render Clinical Services and organise a
cost-effective service daily. Ensure that all personnel undergo training
according to their Individual Development and Performance Plan.
Participate in Community involvement, collect, verify and timeous submit
accurate statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Wawini Tel No: (023) 316-9600
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subject to a practical test. Candidates will be subjected
to a competency-based assessment. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Ceres Hospital, Witzenberg
Sub-district for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/101 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (GENERAL) NIGHT DUTY (X2
POSTS)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R520 560 per annum, (plus, a non-pensionable rural allowance
of 8% of the basic annual salary)
CENTRE : Ceres Hospital, Witzenberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e., diploma
or degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse
and Midwife. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Experience: A minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with
SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirement of the job: Will be
required to work shifts, weekends, and public holidays. Will be required to
deliver standby duties for the Hospital. Will be on required to relief the
86
Operational manager day shift/ Nurse Manager. Valid Code (B/EB)
driver’s license. Will be expected to work clinically in a ward and manage
the facility at Night. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic computer
literacy. Knowledge and insight of relevant legislation and policy related
to this nursing specialty within the public sector. Be able to function
independently and as part of the multidisciplinary team. Ability to promote
quality patient care through the setting, implementation, and monitoring of
standards. Effective communication, interpersonal, leadership,
organisational skills, decision making, and conflict resolution skills.
DUTIES : Manage, supervise and coordinating patient care and human resources
on night duty in Ceres hospital for all departments. Provide strategic
leadership and guidance towards realization of strategic goals and
objectives of the organization through the implementation of policies,
regulations, and professional practices. Collect, verify and submit
accurate midnight reports and handover of activities on night shift. Quality
assurance management by auditing clinical records, doing ward rounds,
managing patient safety incidents and complaints, coordinate and provide
in-service training on night duty. Utilize the information management
systems to enhance patient care and service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Smeda Tel No: (023) 316-9600
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/102 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER: GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY
HEALTH CARE)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R451 533 (PN-B1) per annum
Grade 2: R553 545 (PN-B2) per annum
CENTRE : Citrusdal Clinic, Cederberg Sub-district:
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e diploma /
degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Post-basic qualification with duration of at least 1 year Diploma
in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care
(R48), accredited with SANC. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with SANC as a professional Nurse and a Midwife.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate
recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period
referred to above must be appropriate/ recognisable experience in the
specific specialty after obtaining the 1 year post-basic qualification in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirement of the job: Computer literacy (MS
Word, Excel and Outlook). Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Good
interpersonal and communication skills. Good organizing skills.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): NIMART training or experience.
Problem-solving, report writing, liaison and facilitation skills. Basic
computer skills (i.e MS Word, Excel, Outlook).
DUTIES : Assist with the management and execution of relevant curative
programmes within the scope of practice and to be an advocate for the
patient to ensure the provision of necessary health care. Assist with the
management and execution of relevant Child Health within the scope of
practice and to be an advocate for the patient to ensure the provision of
necessary health care. Assist with the management and execution of
relevant Woman’s Health Services within the scope of practice to be and
advocate for the patient to ensure the provision of necessary health care.
Assist with the management and execution of relevant HAST programmes
87
within scope of practice and be an advocate for patients to ensure
provisioning of necessary health care. Administration and communication.
ENQUIRIES : Sr M Sandt Tel No: (027) 482 1484
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that
proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council
are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is
only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in
the post-basic qualification: Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science, Health
Assessment, and Treatment Care. The pool of applicants will be
considered for other similar vacant posts within the Cederberg Sub-
district, for a period of three months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/103 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE)
GRADE 1 (X2 POSTS)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R451 533 per annum
CENTRE : Vredendal Noord Clinic & Lutzville Clinic
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council as a Professional
Nurse and Midwife. Post-basic qualification, with a duration of at least 1
year, in Curative Skills in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment,
Treatment and Care accredited with the SANC (R48). Registration with
the Professional Council: Current registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse and Midwife. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to travel to and support other
Clinics in the Sub-district when needed. Willing to work on the mobile
health clinic bus. Willingness to relief the Operational Manager during her
absence on leave. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum
of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At
least 10 years of this period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific specialty after
obtaining the one-year post-basic qualification in the relevant specialty as
mentioned above. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal,
planning, organisational skills, and computer literacy (MS Office).
Excellent verbal and written communication skills. Knowledge of the
Nursing Act and relevant Regulations. Knowledge of the Medicines
Control Act, Mental Health Care Act, Child Health Act, and other relevant
legislation.
DUTIES : Effective execution of relevant Curative Programmes on PHC level.
Rendering of an effective Child Health service and programmes, including
school health and nutrition. Execution of all Women’s Health services,
including reproductive health and antenatal care. Effective execution of
the HAST programme – TB management, STI management and
HIV/AIDS management services.
ENQUIRIES : Dr JE Eygelaar Tel No: (027) 2134070
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
88
POST 10/104 : COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT ADVISOR
Directorate: Financial Accounting (Based at Stikland Hospital)
SALARY : R444 036 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma
or Degree in Accounting or Auditing. Experience: Appropriate experience
and knowledge in Finance, Supply Chain Management and Auditing.
Appropriate experience in effective assessment and monitoring of
processes of compliance and risk management. Appropriate experience
in analysing data and drawing conclusions. Appropriate experience in
performing process mapping on internal controls. Appropriate experience
in assessing transactions in line with Financial and SCM prescripts.
Appropriate experience in effective management of staff. Appropriate
experience in the key performance areas of the job. Inherent requirement
of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of operational requirements pertaining to
assets, inventory, warehousing, irregular expenditure, commitments, and
accruals, as well as the relevant reporting requirements. Knowledge of
AFS processes. Knowledge of LOGIS or SYSPRO. Knowledge of internal
controls and compliance management with the ability to draft process
maps. Presentation and report-writing skills. Computer literacy with
extensive experience in Microsoft Excel.
DUTIES : Execute interventions at Health institutions to ensure credibility and
correctness of AFS Notes. Generate samples for staff based on risk.
Identify cases of non-compliance with legislation and policies at
institutions. Formal and informal training of staff at institutions.
Presentation of findings at various management meetings. Perform quality
checks, provide guidance and support to staff. Perform ad hoc
investigations as required by management. Apply Finance and Supply
Chain Management principles. Identify risks and implementation of
appropriate internal controls. Identify irregular, fruitless, and wasteful
expenditure. Evaluate expenditure against laws and regulations to ensure
compliance. Draft Standard Operating Processes with regards to Finance
and Supply Chain Management best practices. Manage staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A. Moya Tel No: (021) 940 8725 or Anele.Moya@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/105 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HEALTH SUPPORT (INSPECTORATE)
Directorate: Assurance
SALARY : R444 036 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year clinical
qualification (degree/diploma) or equivalent that is registrable with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) and/or Health Professions Council
of South Africa (HPCSA). Experience: Appropriate experience in clinical
practice plus appropriate experience specifically in a mental healthcare
environment. Appropriate experience in health services management will
be an added advantage. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid
unendorsed (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to travel throughout
the Western Cape. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of and
insight into Private Health Establishment Regulations, Ambulance Service
Regulations, Mental Health Care legislation, as amended and applicable
legislation. An understanding of clinical activities, needs, norms and
standards across all types of health services. Leadership qualities with
excellent people, technical, conceptual and decision-making skills and the
ability to represent the Department with confidence in engagements with
internal and external clients, as well as other Departmental institutions.
89
Working knowledge of legislation and guidelines relevant to health care,
infrastructure and infrastructure design i.e. PN 187, PN 180, NCS, IUSS,
OHSC. Demonstrable computer literacy (Microsoft Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, Outlook etc.), excellent report writing and presentation skills.
Ability to think critically and analytically, function independently and within
a team context, possess strong leadership qualities as well as being
confident, self-motivated and shows initiative. Sound interpersonal,
supervisory, communication and conflict management skills. Knowledge
of budgeting processes, financial management, the levying and collection
of fees in terms of applicable legislation.
DUTIES : Conduct health facility inspections and formulate resultant decisions in
line with Western Cape (Municipal, Provincial – PN187 as amended, PN
180) and National legislation. Effective and efficient communication with
all stakeholders and advise health facility management on technical,
clinical and operational aspects relating to corrective steps where facilities
do not conform to governing legislation. Review building plans (facility
layouts and design in terms of current clinical best practice and
legislation). Offer support to the licensing process of Health
Establishments in the Province, under the direction of the Deputy Director:
Licensing and Inspectorate. Supervise support staff and assist with the
management duties of the division. Knowledge of budgeting processes,
financial management, the levying and collection of fees in terms of
applicable legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Jacobs Tel No: (021) 483 3303
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/106 : INDUSTRIAL TECHNICIAN: UNIT HEAD- CLINICAL ENGINEERING
(OPTICS WORKSHOP)
SALARY : R444 036 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: National Diploma in Electrical
Engineering (T; S or N stream), or registration as an Engineering
Technician in terms of the Engineering Profession of South Africa Act (Act
46 of 2000). Experience: Practical experience after qualification on optical
medical equipment repairs, especially surgical and laboratory
microscopes. Experience on the following equipment also recommended:
light sources, laser, ENT and various types of scopes (gastro-, colono-,
cysto and brongioscopes, etc.). Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of health technology principles and Excellent ability to do
faultfinding on medical equipment. Computer literacy (i.e. MS Word,
Excel). Ability to compile technical specifications for medical equipment
and assist with the tender process.
DUTIES : Carry out advanced maintenance, repairs, calibration, modifications and
installations of medical (Optical) equipment and train junior technicians
and users on equipment. Ensuring that the equipment meets legal and
safety requirements of the manufacturers and statutory bodies. Liaise with
hospital and private sector staff and reports to the Head of Clinical
engineering. Perform all administrative functions as required by the
Clinical Engineering Department, managers and health Technology
prescripts while ensuring compliance with the Occupational Health and
Safety Act of 1993
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Leon Van Niekerk Tel No: (021) 404 4040
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
90
POST 10/107 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HR (PEOPLE PLANNING)
Directorate: People Management Planning and Practices
SALARY : R444 036 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year
Diploma/Bachelor’s Degree in the Human Resources/People
Management field. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s license. Experience: Appropriate experience in Workforce
Planning processes and analytics. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of the Public Service Act and Public Service Regulations.
Knowledge of the DPSA Directive on Workforce Planning (HR Planning).
Exposure to the DPSA Workforce Planning prescripts and templates will
be an added advantage. Computer Literacy in MS Office (MS Word, MS
Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook). Knowledge of PowerBI will be an added
advantage. Analytical skills and research abilities. Ability to work in a
team. Excellent verbal and written communication skills. Report writing
skills. Attention to detail.
DUTIES : Render a strategic People Planning function by developing the
departmental Workforce (HR) Plan and to monitor and evaluate the
implementation of key actions identified. Develop the 3-year Workforce
(HR) Plan and the annual HR Plan Implementation Report (HRPIR) for
the WCGHW. Conduct research and trend analysis on Workforce
Planning issues and stay abreast of new developments. Keep abreast of
national, provincial, and departmental strategies in order to align the
Workforce Plan appropriately. Comply with the standards, quality, and
timeframes in terms of the DPSA Directive. Manage the online HR Exit
Interview System (HREXITIS). Provide support, advice, and training to
role-players in the Department. Provide input to strategic documents.
Participate in the annual provincial assessment of all newly developed
Workforce Plans and annual Implementation Reports in collaboration with
the Department of the Premier. Manage the People Management (HR)
issues of staff in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Carine Kleynhans Tel No: (021) 483-4487/Ms Reygana Shade Tel No:
(021) 483-3717
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/108 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
(Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services)
SALARY : Grade 1: R376 524 per annum
Grade 2: R439 755 per annum
Grade 3: R514 785 per annum
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as an Occupational Therapist. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as an Occupational Therapist. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist. Minimum of 1-year
relevant experience after registration with the Health Professional Council
of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational Therapist in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of
10 years’ relevant experience after registration with HPCSA as an
Occupational Therapist. Minimum of 11 years relevant experience after
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as an Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
91
Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after
registration with HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist. Minimum of 21
years relevant experience after registration with the Health Professional
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational Therapist in respect
of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of
the job: Valid Driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of applicable health legislation, relevant acts, policies and
procedures. Understanding of evidence-based practice and knowledge of
mental health and Intellectual Disability. Good interpersonal,
organizational, and planning abilities.
DUTIES : Planning, Implementation and evaluation of an effective and efficient OT
clinical service. Execute delegated administration tasks related to clinical
service as well as departmental requirements. Needs assessment,
development, implementation & monitoring of new and existing projects.
Effective and efficient management of financial and physical resources
related to service area. Clinical supervision of students during practical
placement as well as professional development of self and others.
Support to HOD.
ENQUIRIES : Mr F Sedick Tel No: (021) 503-5031
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlist
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
“Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to
register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day
of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the
relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be considered for other
similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/109 : DENTAL TECHNICIAN (DENTAL TREATMENT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R376 524 per annum
Grade 2: R439 755 per annum
Grade 3: R514 785 per annum
CENTRE : Oral Health Centres
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the South African Dental Technicians Council of South
Africa (SADTC) as a Dental Technician. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with the SADTC in Dental Technician in respect of RSA
qualified employees. One-year relevant experience after registration with
SADTC in Dental Technology in respect of foreign qualified employees of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in
South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years relevant experience after
registration with the SADTC in Dental Technician in respect of SA qualified
employees. Minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration
with SADTC in Dental Technology in respect of foreign qualified
employees of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years relevant
experience after registration with the SADTC in Dental Technician in
respect of RSA qualified employees. Minimum of 21 years relevant
experience after registration with SADTC in Dental Technology in respect
of foreign qualified employees of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of
92
the job: Willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
function within a multi-disciplinary team setting, to be flexible and to work
independently. Good management, administrative and supervisory, good
problem–solving, conflict resolution. Experience in teaching and learning
environment. Good computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook).
Experience in Crown and Bridge Ceramics, Tooth morphology,
Implantology, Press able ceramics, Digital Dental Cad Cam Milling, 3D
Dental Printing, and Sintering processes. Proficient in doing Zirconia
Crowns and Bridges.
DUTIES : Ensure delivery of Dental Technology Services, (Dental Ceramics,
Implants, Press able Ceramics and Digital Dental Cad-Cam within the
various components of the Oral Health Centre, Tygerberg and Mitchell’s
Plain platform. Continuous development and obtaining technical skills
required for optimal Teaching and Learning, Service delivery and
Research. Administrative duties. Deliver service over the ORAL Health
Centre platform of Tygerberg and Mitchell’s Plain. Must be able to function
as part of dental team. Implant supported prosthesis.
ENQUIRIES : Mr U Pieterse Tel No: (021) 937 3053
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
“Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to
register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day
of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the
relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be considered for other
similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be subjected
to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/110 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
(Cape Winelands Health District)
SALARY : Grade 1: R376 524 per annum
Grade 2: R439 755 per annum
Grade 3: R514 785 per annum
(plus, a non-pensionable rural allowance of 12% of the basic annual
salary)
CENTRE : Witzenberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
for the registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as an occupational therapist. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as an Occupational Therapist. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession in respect of RSA-
qualified employees who performed community service, as required in
South Africa 1-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA
in the relevant profession in respect of foreign-qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform community service. Grade 2: Minimum
of 10 years relevant experience with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa (HPCSA) in the relevant profession (where applicable) in
respect of RSA qualified employees. Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years
relevant experience with the Health Professions Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) in the relevant profession (where applicable) in respect of RSA
qualified employees. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Code (B/EB)
driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Comply with ideal
facility/clinic requirements as applicable. Knowledge of prescription and
93
issuing of assistive devices including mobility assistive device. Clinical
therapeutic skills including assessment techniques, treatment, discharge
planning and follow up as needed. Ability to be flexible and innovative in
response to differing client needs and in line with the BOD within that area.
Basic to intermediate wheelchair seating assessments, prescription, fitting
and issuing of wheelchairs and other relevant assistive
devices/technology as well as Splinting skills.
DUTIES : Provide clinical occupational therapy service delivery to patients at a
primary healthcare level, including transitional care facilities/ intermediate
care facilities, and relevant NGO’s applicable to the designated work
areas. Conduct basic to intermediate wheelchair seating assessments,
prescription, fitting and issuing of wheelchairs to wheelchair users as well
as fabrication and prescription of various upper and lower limb splints.
Prescribing assistive technology for relevant medical conditions. Daily
collection and monthly submission of data as per departmental protocols.
Effective, efficient and optimal use of resources including facilitating the
repair and maintenance of assistive devices. Provide relevant relief duty
in absence of a peer colleague within the ecosystem.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Wawini Tel No: (023) 316-9600
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A practical
test will form part of the selection process. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that
proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council
are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is
only applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for
registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status). The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the
Witzenberg Sub District for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/111 : ULTRASOUND RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 TO 3 (SONOGRAPHER)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R376 524 per annum
Grade 2: R439 755 per annum
Grade 3: R 514 785 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha CHC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Minimum educational qualification:
Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in Ultrasound Radiography.
Registration with the Professions Council: Registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Radiographer in
Ultrasound. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA
in Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of RSA-qualified employees. One-
year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in
South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA in Radiography (Ultrasound. in respect of
RSA-qualified employees. Minimum of 11 years relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA in Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of
foreign qualified employees of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 20
years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Radiography (Ultrasound. in respect of RSA-qualified employees.
Minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA in Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of foreign qualified
94
employees of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to
conduct outreaches to local clinics, community day/ health centres and
communities. Valid Code B/EB driver’s license. Willingness to work
overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in word
processing, data management and analysis. Ability to work independently
and in a team with good interpersonal skills. Thorough knowledge of ante-
natal, ante-natal Doppler paediatric, gynaecology- and abdominal-
ultrasound studies. Completion of supplementary courses on diagnostic
ultrasound and knowledge and interest in teaching in Obstetrics and
Gynaecology at both undergraduate and post-graduate level.
DUTIES : Provide a comprehensive diagnostic ultrasound service at an advanced
level with the focus on Obstetrics and Gynaecology (OSG) imaging in
Khayelitsha CHC. General care of patients as part of a multi-Disciplinary
team. Effective administration within the ultrasound unit regarding patient
service. appropriate referral as well as equipment management. Maintain
case records and statistics. Actively take part in CPD- program, as a
learner as well as In-service training.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. C Steyn (Cheryl.Steyn@westerncape.gov.za)
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written practical test and oral
assessment. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or
before the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on
health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply
for change in registration status.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/112 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT
Directorate: Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R376 413 annum
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National
Diploma or Degree. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s license. Experience: Appropriate Human Resource Administration
experience. Appropriate supervisory experience. Practical PERSAL
experience. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge of the
Public Service Act and regulations, various OSD’s, Human Resource
Policies, Resolutions, and Agreements. Ability to ensure compliance and
identify irregularities in the application of human resource policies and
practices by means of analytical and innovative thinking. Excellent
computer skills in (MS Office, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Outlook).
DUTIES : Ensure adherence and correct application to all transversal personnel
practices, policies and procedures, including all employment practices,
conditions of service and terminations, SPMS/PERMIS, establishment
administration and recruitment and selection and HRD Render a support
and advisory service with regards to personnel administration and human
resource management. Manage and supervise the general staff office
including the development of HR Officials. Management of PERSAL
functions and accurate record keeping. Ensure HR compliance and
rectification of Auditor-General reports and monitor compliance (CMI) to
HR policies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr CE Modisie Tel No: (021) 808-6178
95
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/113 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: PSYCHIATRY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R451 533 (PN-B1) per annum
Grade 2: R553 545 (PN-B2) per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425(Degree/Diploma in
nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with SANC as
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification, with duration of at
least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing
Science: Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the
SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years
of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable
experience in the specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification as mentioned above. Inherent requirement of the job: To work
shifts and after-hours including weekends, public holidays and night duty.
To rotate to other departments within the psychiatry unit Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge and understanding of nursing and
health service related acts, legislation, policies and practices. Problem
solving, report writing, liaison and facilitation skills. Basic computer skills
in MS Word, Excel, Outlook and use of Internet. Ability to lift and turn
patients, stand for long hours and lift heavy equipment.
DUTIES : Provide an optimal, holistic, specialised Nursing Care within set standards
and within a professional, legal framework as a Professional Nurse in
Mental Health wards/units. Maintain a constructive working relationship
with nursing and other stakeholders. Utilise human, material and physical
resources efficiently and effectively. Participate in research and training
and development of community, staff and students to achieve optimal
health care and rehabilitation of Mental Health patients. Deliver an
effective outreach service. Assist with administrative duties, e.g. data
collation and reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs A Meiring Tel No: (021) 404 3172
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short-
listed candidates may be subjected to a compulsory competency test.
Candidates who are not in possession of the required qualification will be
appointed into the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the
necessary qualification within a predetermined period of time. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may
also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on
condition that proof of application for registration to register with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees
to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first
time for registration in the post basic qualification in: Advanced Psychiatric
Nursing Science with the South African Nursing Council.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/114 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE: GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL: WELLNESS)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : Grade 1: R307 473 per annum
96
Grade 2: R375 480 per annum
Grade 3: R451 533 per annum
CENTRE : Support and Outreach Beaufort West PHC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional
Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Professional
Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration at SANC
as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license and willingness
to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal relations,
leadership and communication skills (verbal and written) in at least two of
the three official languages of the Western Cape. Knowledge of the
Community Orientated Primary Health Care (COPC) approach and Health
Care 2030 vision. Excellent communication with community and other
stakeholders’ engagement and facilitation skills, Computer literacy (MS
Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Ability to work independently and in a multi-
disciplinary team as a supervisor.
DUTIES : Provide effective support to the Comprehensive Health Component in the
District office. Manage the implementation of the COPC approach and
support the external and internal interface. Monitor and support with
quality data submission. External interface management by planning,
delivered and implementation of wellness initiatives and interventions with
support from internal stakeholders to implement community orientated
primary care. Intersectoral interface management with strong
organisational linkages and partnerships with outside stakeholders,
sectors, departments, NGOs and community structures. Lead and co-
ordinate scheduled wellness activities for men, women, adolescents, and
youth with a focus on the 1st 1000 Days initiative towards building healthy
communities. Delivered wellness activities in the specific communities
with a focus on Western Cape on Wellness (WoW!) to support an
integrated approach in managing chronic conditions eg Diabetes,
hypertension, TB, HIV, mental health.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Hansen Tel No: (023) 414 8202
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered
for appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to
register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day
of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals
who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the
relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). The pool of applicants will be considered for similar
vacant posts within Central Karoo District for a period of 3 months from
date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a practical/written
assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/115 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE: GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R307 473 per annum
Grade 2: R375 480 per annum
Grade 3: R451 533 per annum
CENTRE : Laingville Clinic: Saldanha Bay Sub District
97
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as
Professional Nurse and Midwife. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwife and proof
of current registration (i.e., annual licensing receipt of 2024. Experience:
Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of
20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent
requirement of the job: Prepared to work at different facilities within the
Sub District inclusive a Mobile, hospital and when needed within the
community (COPC concept). Valid (code B/EB) driver’s license.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and insight of relevant
legislation and policy related to nursing within the public sector and basic
computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook) to be able to
communicate, capture patient information, check results, capture data and
do and track referrals on the different electronic systems. Ability to
promote quality patient care through the implementation of protocols,
guidelines, and standards.
DUTIES : Management of Burden of disease in accordance with the guidelines and
protocols of the Western Cape. Provide quality of care to all patients within
PN scope of practice, in consideration of their presented health issue.
Maintain accurate clinical records, statistics registers, and referral
records. Effective utilization of Resources/Stock within the limited budget
constraints. Participation in Community events and initiating awareness of
health-related issues. Maintain and participate in inter-professional and
multi-disciplinary teamwork but able to work independently and
supervising and mentor lower categories of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms AR Louw Tel No: (022) 709-5066
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a competency assessment. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may
also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on
condition that proof of application for registration to register with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees
to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for
the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within
the West Coast TB Complex (Sonstraal & ID Hospitals) for a period of 3
months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/116 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A TO C: CARPENTRY
(Technical Services)
Directorate: Metro Health District
SALARY : Grade A: R230 898 per annum
Grade B: R270 915 per annum
Grade C: R314 751 per annum
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate Trade Test Certificate
in Carpentry. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid driver's licence (code
B/EB). Perform standby duties and overtime as required. Experience
Grade A: No experience after obtaining the relevant trade certificate.
Grade B: At least 18 years appropriate/recognisable experience in the
area after obtaining the relevant Trade Test Certificate. Grade C: At least
98
34 years appropriate/recognisable experience in the area after obtaining
the relevant Trade Test Certificate. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Be
conversant with the requirements of the Machinery and Occupational
Health and Safety Act. Competent with hands-on practical work,
teamwork, leadership, and be conversant/competent in workshop
machinery. Computer literacy in MS Office (Word, Excel, Outlook).
DUTIES : Perform routine inspections, and general repairs, maintain buildings, and
oversee the preventative maintenance programme. Assist to manage
outsourced contracts and drawing up minor contract specifications. Assist
with the control of the workshop budget, stocktaking, ensuring
safekeeping, and ordering of tools and materials on Log 1. Assist with the
Human Resource Management of staff, compilation of reports, statistics,
and general administration. Assist with supervising the Handyman and
Tradesman aids and managing Disciplinary Procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Petersen Tel No: (021) 503 5036
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/117 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A TO C (ELECTRICAL)
SALARY : Grade A: R230 898 per annum
Grade B: R270 915 per annum
Grade C: R314 751 per annum
CENTRE : Drakenstein Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Trade Test Certificate.
Experience: Grade A: No experience required. Grade B: At least 18 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in the area after obtaining the
relevant Trade Test Certificate. Grade C: At least 34 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in the area after obtaining the
relevant Trade Test Certificate. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid
Code EB/EC driver’s license. Perform standby duties and overtime as
required. Willing to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate
experience in electrical field especially in maintenance and repairs.
Keeping abreast with new techniques and materials. Knowledge of the
requirements of the Machinery and Occupational Health and Safety Act.
Computer literacy in MS Word, Excel. Ability to conduct fault finding
exercises and do /service repairs down to component level. Supervisory
skills.
DUTIES : General Administration of the Workshop including the Stock take and
safekeeping of tools and materials. Day to day planning and management
of job cards including workload management. Planning and procurement
of materials and equipment and quality control of completed works, Carry
out technical investigations, provide technical support to clients and
provide input to the operational plan of the workshop, administration of
work including reporting. Liaise with the relevant Hospital workshop,
Directorate Hospital Maintenance and Engineering Services as well as
Technical and Engineering Workshop. Supervision of Tradesman Aid and
interns and manage the Disciplinary procedures. Assist with the execution
of engineering projects/repairs at the institutions. Ability to write
specifications.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Adams Tel No: (021) 877-6400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will
be considered for similar vacant posts within Drakenstein Sub-district for
a period of 3 months from date of advert.”
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
99
POST 10/118 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (NURSING)
(Chief Directorate: Metro District Health Services)
SALARY : R216 417 per annum
CENTRE : Metro TB Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in a hospital environment and
working with clients. Extensive office management experience. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts, weekends and public
holidays. Computer literacy (words, excel, PowerPoint) Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to manage own work and that of the deputy
managers office. Ability to communicate with the public and all stake
holders. Computer literacy (Ms word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint). Ability
to type approximately 20-25 words per minute. Problem solving, conflict
management, good planning and organisational skills. Ability to maintain
confidentiality. Able to function independently and within the
multidisciplinary team. Knowledge of NIMS
DUTIES : Provide an effective administrative service to the Nursing department&
HOD Nursing. Planning, organizing & Performing administrative duties
(record keeping of all nursing personnel activities, typing, faxing
photocopying, filling and minute taking). Provide effective communication
(arranging appointment, meetings and stakeholders’ visitors, manage
telephone calls daily, complete weekly and monthly stats, reports and data
capturing) to the head of nursing department Support to Nursing
department – NIMS management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G. Mashaba Tel No: (021) 508 7406
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/119 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
Directorate: Information Technology (Tygerberg Hospital: HIS Application
Centre)
SALARY : R216 417 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: National Senior Certificate or
equivalent. Experience: Appropriate experience in administration.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Communication Skills, Organizational
Skills, Technical and IT Skills. Numerical and Financial Competence
Analytical and Problem-Solving Skills Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, Outlook, and Teams). Information systems management
skills. Analytical and problem-solving skills. Excellent communication and
people skills. Basic database development and maintenance skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for Administrative Support by provide high-level
administrative support to managers, ensuring seamless office operations.
Ensuring functional Diary Management, organize appointments,
meetings, and events, managing time effectively and resolving scheduling
conflicts. Coordinate meetings, prepare agendas, take minutes, and
distribute materials to stakeholders. Travel and Accommodation
Management: Organize travel arrangements, including flight bookings,
accommodation, and travel claims. Financial Administration: Track
expenditure, assist with purchase orders, and support procurement
activities. Human Resource and Contract Administration: Assist with
recruitment coordination, onboarding, and contract management.
Reporting and Presentations: Support the preparation of reports,
presentations, and other documentation. SharePoint Administration:
Manage documents and ensure correct access and organization within
SharePoint.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Sibulele Dlakana Email: Sibulele.Dlakana@westerncape.gov.za
100
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/120 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
(PROCUREMENT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R216 4417 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bemer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: -Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as passed subject and/or Senior
Certificate (or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on
the Key Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: -Appropriate
experience in Supply Chain Management with specific focus in the
Procurement Process. Appropriate experience of Supply Chain
Management systems i. e. Logis (Logistical Information System) and ePS
(Electronic Procurement System). Inherent requirements of the job: -
Willingness to work after-hours when required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): -Computer literacy (i.e. MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint
and Outlook). Good verbal and written communication. Sound
communication, organisational and interpersonal skills. Knowledge of
Supply Chain Management processes, PFMA and the Accounting Officers
System, LOGIS, EPS and ESL.
DUTIES : Source quotations: Advertise requests on EPS to source quotations,
perform an SCM evaluation of such quotes and guide users on how to
evaluate. Generate and place orders with suppliers and maintain filing and
complete adjudication of awarded orders on EPS. Prepare documentation
for quotation committee meetings. Ensure that all transactions comply
with legislative requirements. Handle telephonic and written enquiries
from Directorates and Suppliers and perform relief duties within SCM
component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. J Davids Tel No: (021) 834-589
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : Candidates will be subjected to a practical / written assessment during the
interview process. The pool of applicants will be considered for other
vacant similar posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/121 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: WARDS
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R216 417 per annum
CENTRE : Brewelskloof Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate or Equivalent.
Experience: Appropriate experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Will
be required to work shifts, weekends, and public holidays. Willingness to
rotate and assist in other departments as required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literate (Microsoft word and Excel.) Ability to
work under pressure and to meet deadlines. Maintain confidentiality.
DUTIES : Rendering of a comprehensive HRD/MDR/ARV clerical service. Stock
ordering and control and Information management. Provide support to the
multidisciplinary team and collect and Collate data. Maintain ARV / HRD/
MDR register. Managing training register for personnel. Assist with the
compilation of the Workplace Skills Plan. Manage, order and maintain
stock. Perform relieve duties in other departments as would be required.
Keep minutes of relevant meetings. Maintain a complete and accurate
filing system.
ENQUIRIES : Mr NL Mahashe Tel No: (023) 348 -1311
101
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will
be considered for similar vacant posts within Brewelskloof Hospital for a
period of 3 months from date of advert.”
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/122 : TELECOM OPERATOR (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R183 279 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Obsavatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training
Certificate (GETC)/Grade 9 (Std. 7). Inherent requirement of the job: Work
shifts, night shifts, weekends, and public holidays. Work overtime when
required for operational needs. Experience Appropriate experience in
operating an electronic switchboard and a messaging system.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to operate an electronic
switchboard. Excellent listening skills and telephone etiquette. Computer
literacy in Microsoft Packages (Word, Excel, and Outlook).
DUTIES : Operate electronic switchboards, answer telephonic queries, and deliver
messages. Ensure that the switchboard and telephone equipment are in
working order. Monitor, place, and record all cellular, national, and
international calls made. Effectively sending of bulk SMS’s. Perform
administration duties in the paging office. Update speed dials and speed
dial directory and report all telephone faults and switchboard errors to the
Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Goolam Tel No: (021) 404-3332
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/123 : EMERGENCY CARE OFFICER GRADE 1 AND 3 (BAA/AEA) (X8
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R177 714 - R202 193 per annum
Grade 3: R206 619 - R271 584 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 1: Successful completion of an
appropriate Basic Life Support (BLS) course that allows registration with
the HPCSA as Basic Ambulance Assistant (BAA). Grade 3: Successful
completion of the Intermediate Life Support (ILS) that allows registration
with the HPCSA as Ambulance Emergency Assistant (AEA). Registration
with a Professional Council: Grade 1: Registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa as an BAA. Grade 3: Registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa as an AEA. Experience:
None after registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as a BAA or AEA. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid code
C1 driver’s license. Valid professional driver’s permit (PrDP). Physical and
mental fitness. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent knowledge of
all levels of Emergency Care protocols. Good communication and
interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Ensure effective communication with regards to patients, colleagues,
other services and members of the Public. Provide quality and efficient
roadside to bedside definitive emergency care within defined emergency
time frames within and across geographic and clinical service platforms.
Make use of all communication tools as provided by the Employer to
facilitate safe communication in relation to patient care protocols.
Effectively maintaining Admin Function: complete manual and electronic
patient care reports and trip authority log sheets. Maintenance of
102
Emergency Vehicles and Equipment. Provide effective support to the
supervisor and participate in own wellbeing.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Modack-Robertson Tel No: (021) 932 1966
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/124 : SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (PAEDIATRICS)
(20 HOURS PER WEEK)
(Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services)
SALARY : Grade 1: R612 per hour
Grade 2: R698 per hour
Grade 3: R809 per hour
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as a Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa
as a Medical Specialist Paediatrics. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Grade
2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as Medical Specialist
after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a
Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the
HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Paediatrics.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s license. Willingness to do
teaching, outreach and perform overtime duties in paediatrics and
neonatology. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy. Have
a good understanding of regional and district level child health services
and programmes. Awareness of statutory framework, including
Healthcare 2030, Best Practice Criteria, National Core Standards, EDL,
Standard Treatment Guidelines. Practical experience in inpatient and
outpatient care in General Paediatrics and Neonatology. Leadership-,
interpersonal- and organisational skills. Experience in emergency care of
critically ill children and neonates. Experience in outpatient care of
children including children with neurodevelopmental disorders.
Experience in teaching and training of undergraduate students.
DUTIES : Clinical service delivery at specialist level across the full spectrum of
Paediatrics and Neonatology, including emergency care of a critically ill
patients, Neurodevelopmental assessment, and other long term health
conditions. Ensure effective and efficient clinical governance and
management within the NSH Paediatric department with regard to clinical,
human and financial resources. Conduct academic teaching in Paediatrics
and Neonatology on UCT joint platform at undergraduate and
postgraduate levels. UCT is committed to the pursuit of excellence,
diversity and redress in achieving equity targets. Plan and participate in
the education and training of staff, including registrars, medical officers,
community service MO’s, interns, medical students and nursing staff.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Donna Stokes Tel No: (021) 402 6408
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/125 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (PAEDIATRIC
GASTROENTEROLOGY) (6 SESSIONS)
(1 Year Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R607 pe hour
103
Grade 2: R698 per hour
Grade 3: R809 per hour
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as a Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Grade
2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as Medical Specialist
after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a
Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the
HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Paediatrics.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Competencies (knowledge/skills.
Experience in general paediatrics and paediatric gastroenterology. Good
communication skills (written and verbal). Ability to function independently
at a level of medical specialist in paediatrics. Demonstrated interest in
Paediatric Gastroenterology, including research. Working with multi-
disciplinary teams. SASPGHAN membership
DUTIES : To render a clinical outpatient service in Paediatric Gastroenterology. To
provide outpatient care, including clinical teaching. Administration and
management.
ENQUIRIES : Dr P. Rose Tel No: (021) 938 9570
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/126 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE1 TO 3 (10 SESSIONS PER WEEK)
(SURGERY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(1-Year Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R612 per hour
Grade 2: R698 per hour
Grade 3: R809 per hour
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as a Medical Specialist in Surgery. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the HPCSA as a medical Specialist in Surgery.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Medical Practitioner with
the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year relevant
experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of
6 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with
a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to
perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Inherent
requirement of the job: Must be willing to work sessional hours after hours,
104
including weekends and public holidays. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in general surgery.
Appropriate experience in emergency upper-Gastrointestinal endoscopy
and management of upper-GI bleeding. Ability to work in a team and with
all levels of staff. Interest in developing an academic career.
DUTIES : Management and communication to appropriately triaged & efficient
running of theatre lists. Requirements to complete statistics collection.
Completion of medicolegal documents. Participation in research, audits
and quality improvement programs. To deliver comprehensive after-hours
emergency/urgent surgical services to patients in theatre, GIT unit,
surgical wards, and emergency centre at Victoria Hospital. The aim is to
deliver safe, cost-effective and high-quality care at all times and promote
comprehensive peri-operative care of patients in the discipline of general
surgery. This would include the following roles: Pre-operative assessment
and resuscitation of surgical patient and planning appropriate operative
management. Emergency/urgent & trauma surgical procedures.
Competency & proficiency in emergency UGI endoscopy & management
of UGI bleeding. Post-operative assessment & care, with appropriate
investigation & management of possible complications. Teaching and
training of interns, students and nurses providing an appropriate level of
care and knowledge.
ENQUIRIES : Dr J. Plaskett Tel No: (021) 799-1200, email:
Jeremy.Plaskett@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to
register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day
of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals
who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the
relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/127 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (20 PER WEEK SESSIONS)
Garden Route District
Contract until 31 March 2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R457 per hour
Grade 2: R521 per hour
R603 per hour
CENTRE : Mossel Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as
a Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of who is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5
years’ appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration
as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service as required n South Africa. Grade
3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years’ relevant
105
experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Registration with a Professional Council: -
Registration with the HPSCA as a Medical Practitioner. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid driver’s license (Code B/EB). -Willingness
to travel between PHC facilities. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of general medical and surgical conditions on hospital and
PHC level. Knowledge applicable to South African TB and HIV care
guidelines and including pediatrics HIV and Drug-resistant TB. Computer
literacy (MS Excel, Word, Outlook etc.). Ability and willingness to do
outreach services to clinics throughout the Mossel Bay Sub-district,
guiding health care colleagues in managing difficult PHC cases.
DUTIES : Provide quality outpatient care to patients in Mosselbay Sub-district
Primary Healthcare facilities and provide an Outreach and Support service
to PHC facilities in the Mosselbay Sub-district. Provide guidance and
leadership towards the realisation of strategic goals and objectives of the
division. Ensure a cost-efficient service at clinical level with regards to
laboratory services, blood, medicine, consumables and equipment.
Willingness to travel throughout the district. Actively participate in skills
transfer, training, and academic opportunities relevant to the post. Active
involvement in the clinical governance of Mosselbay Sub-district facilities
as required.
ENQUIRIES : Dr JB van Jaarsveld Tel No: (044) 604 6102
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to
register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day
of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals
who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the
relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). The pool of applicants will be considered for similar
vacant posts within the Garden Route and Central Karoo District’s for a
period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
POST 10/128 : CLEANER (SESSIONS) (15 SESSIONS) (X3 POSTS)
Cape Winelands Health District
Contract till 28 March 2028
SALARY : R86.45 per hour
CENTRE : Breede Valley Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic literacy and numeracy.
Experience: Appropriate experience as a Cleaner in a health environment.
Inherent requirement of the job: Ability to lift/move heavy equipment and
supplies and working at heights requiring the use of a stepladder. The
ability to do physical tasks, operate heavy duty cleaning and household
equipment. Rotate in different clinics according to operational needs and
requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work effectively
in a team, independently and unsupervised, to accept accountability and
responsibility. Ability to handle conflict and the ability to work under
pressure. Ability to operate machinery and equipment.
DUTIES : Responsible for cleaning, including sweeping, dusting, mopping,
scrubbing, polishing, refuse removal, cleaning of garbage bins daily,
toilets, sluices and drains, cleaning of windows and walls in the clinic.
Ensure that cleaning equipment are clean after usage and securely
stored. Render assistance to the supervisor with general housekeeping
duties such as control of cleaning and household equipment, care of linen
106
and serving of patients. Adhere to safety measures when handling waste.
Attend in-service training appropriate to service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C van Staden Tel No: (023) 348-1350
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will
be considered for similar vacant posts within Breede Valley Sub-district
for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
DEPARTMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their
documentation for verification purposes. These candidates will be
required to attend interviews on a date and time as determined by the
department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the
employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in
the advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the
closing date as no late applications will be considered.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 10/129 : PROJECT OFFICER: ECONOMIC HUB REF NO: DOI 03/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), all–inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 7 or higher qualification as recognised
by SAQA; A minimum of 5 years relevant middle/senior management
experience; A valid code B driving licence; Successful completion of the
Certificate for entry into the SMS upon appointment. Note: A requirement
for appointment at Director level is the successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School
of Government. This is a Public Service specific training programme which
is applicable for appointments at SMS level. Recommendation: Legal
background and property development experience; Extensive experience
in project management and contract management; Appropriate
experience in human settlement development and mixed-use
developments. Competencies: Extensive knowledge of applicable policies
and processes relating to this portfolio which includes Spatial Planning
and Land-Use Management Act (SPLUMA), Government Immovable
Asset Management Act (GIAMA), Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Affordable Housing Proven knowledge and understanding of the
following: Management principles; Empowerment; Capacity Building;
Community facilitation; Service delivery innovation Core competencies:
Strategic Capability and leadership; People Management and
Empowerment; Programme and Project Management; Financial
Management and Change Management; Skills: Excellent networking and
network formation skills; Strong leadership skills with specific reference
to the ability to display thought leadership in complex applications; Team
building and strong inter-personal skills; Excellent communication skills
(verbal and written); Technical proficiency. Personal Attributes: A highly
developed interpretive and conceptualisation / formulation ability; The
ability to multi-task, deal with ambiguity and manage under rapidly
107
changing and pressurised circumstances; The ability to persuade and
influence; The ability to deal with a wide variety of external and internal
clients.
DUTIES : Strategic Capability and Leadership will entail the following: Change
Management practices; Translating the vision of the organization into
goals; Developing and implementing strategies; Align programmes and
operational support; Participate in the strategic planning processes;
Monitoring and ensuring compliance with the relevant legislation; Evaluate
the performance of the directorate; Initiate, support and champion
organisational transformation and change in order to successfully
implement new initiatives and deliver on service delivery commitments;
Programme and Project Management; Manage the planning and
implementation of Public Private Partnership projects; Provide feedback
to Senior Management with respect to the relevant stages of the project;
Appoint and manage service providers and transactional advisors; Ensure
agreements are properly enforced in terms of the relevant regulations;
Ensure an efficient and effective oversight and management of all financial
aspects and resources; People Management and empowerment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L Mabuntane Tel No: (021) 483 5788
DEPARTMENT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 31 March 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their
documentation for verification purposes. These candidates will be
required to attend interviews on a date and time as determined by the
department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the
employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00.
you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries
relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in
the advert. Please ensure that you submit your application before the
closing date as no late applications will be considered.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 10/130 : DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL CAPACITY BUILDING AND SUPPORT REF
NO: LG 15/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), all–inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-degree/Advanced Diploma (NQF 7) or higher
qualification as recognised; A minimum of 5 years relevant middle/senior
management experience in a local government or related working
environment; A valid code driving licence; Successful completion of the
Senior Management Pre-entry Programme for entry into the SMS upon
appointment. Note: A requirement for appointment at Director level is the
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-entry Programme
as endorsed by the National School of Government. This is a Public
Service specific training programme which is applicable for appointments
at SMS level. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Applicable
policies. legislation, guidelines, standards, procedures and best practices
relating to this portfolio; Information Systems that aid in the management
of knowledge and information; Procurement and tendering processes;
Policy development, and strategy management, monitoring and review
processes; Performance Management. Core competencies: Strategic
Capability and leadership; People Management and Empowerment;
Programme and Project Management; Financial Management and
108
Change Management; Skills: Ability to interpret and apply relevant policies
and procedures; Accounting Finance and Audit; Economic, Statistical and
Financial Analysis; Legal Administration.
DUTIES : Strategic Management, advice and guidance in respect of the following
functional areas: Provide support to improve municipal service delivery;
Monitor compliance with the implementation of the Municipal Property
Rates Act; and Municipal Staff Regulations, Coordinate support and
training interventions and provide logistical support in aid thereof; Manage
the Local Government Grant Committee; Strategic Management; Change
Management; People Management and empowerment; Financial
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. S Greyling Tel No: (021) 483 6126
POST 10/131 : DIRECTOR: DISTRICT AND LOCAL PERFORMANCE MONITORING
REF NO: LG 13/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), all–inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-degree/ Advanced Diploma (NQF 7) or higher
qualification as recognised by SAQA in Monitoring and Evaluation or
Public Management or related; A minimum of 5 years relevant
middle/senior management experience in a monitoring and evaluation or
related environment; A valid code B driving licence; Successful completion
of the Senior Management Pre-entry Programme for entry into the SMS
upon appointment. Note: A requirement for appointment at Director level
is the successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-entry
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government. This is a
Public Service specific training programme which is applicable for
appointments at SMS level. Recommendation: Course or experience in
Developmental Local Government, Monitoring and Evaluation or
Municipal Strategic Management. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Applicable policies. legislation, guidelines, standards,
procedures and best practices relating to this portfolio; Constitutional,
Institutional and Development circumstances of municipalities in the
Western Cape; Monitoring and Evaluation legislation, guiding manuals
and frameworks; Strategic Management processes including strategic
planning and performance management within government including
inter-sphere and cross sector planning; Core competencies: Strategic
Capability and leadership; People Management and Empowerment;
Programme and Project Management; Financial Management and
Change Management; Skills: Policy formation; Ability to interpret and
apply relevant policies and procedures; Ability to analyse, promote,
facilitate and implement strategic planning; Ability to communicate at all
levels and across sectors using various media, stakeholder engagement
and to build and maintain working partnerships.
DUTIES : Review and maintain a framework for monitoring all aspects of municipal
performance; Manage the process of collection and collation of data;
Monitor and evaluate implementation of municipal performance
monitoring systems; Assess and analyse data from municipalities to
inform support to municipalities; Provide input to national and provincial
policy and legislative processes as well as structures regarding
performance monitoring of municipalities; Manage the national and
provincial municipal excellence awards processes and provide input to the
national processes; Provide direction to the components strategic
management and give input to the Chief Directorate's strategic planning
processes including Municipal ICT and GIS capability; People
Management and Empowerment; Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. S Greyling Tel No: (021) 483 6126
109