PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 24 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 11 JULY 2025
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge
and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH
IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative
action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied.
Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the
filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment
in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENT : DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING: Kindly note that the post of
Deputy Principal: Finance, Branch: Community Education and Training, Western Cape
CET College with Ref No: DHET45/06/2025 advertised Public Service Vacancy Circular
22 dated 27 June 2025 with the closing date of 18 July 2025 is hereby withdrawn.
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
ELECTRICITY AND ENERGY A 03
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR B 04 - 08
HEALTH C 09 - 10
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING D 11 - 15
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION E 16 - 18
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT F 19
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE G 20 - 24
WATER AND SANITATION H 25 - 27
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
GAUTENG I 28 - 29
LIMPOPO J 30 - 55
MPUMALANGA K 56 - 89
NORTHERN CAPE L 90 - 91
WESTERN CAPE M 92 - 126
2
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICITY AND ENERGY
APPLICATIONS : Should be accompanied by a comprehensive CV, and less than 6 months
certified copies of qualifications and ID. All applications must be accompanied
by a Z83 form. Applications can be emailed to: recruitment07@dmre.gov.za
quoting reference number DEE RM07/2025. Confirmation of final appointment
will be subject to a positive security clearance.
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2025 @ 16:00
OTHER POST
POST 24/01 : RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE MEMBERS REF NO: DEE RM07/2025
(3 years Contract)
Re-advertisement, previous applicants are advised to re-apply.
SALARY : In accordance with National Treasury Tariffs
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : The Department of Electricity and Energy is looking for the services of
competent and qualified individuals to be appointed as independent members
of the Department’s Risk Management Committee. Depending on their
qualification and experience, one of the appointees will be designated as the
Chairperson of the Committee. The qualifying applicants must be in possession
of a minimum NQF level 8 qualification in any of the following fields: a post-
graduate qualification in areas like Risk Management, Accounting, MBA or
Auditing (such as CRMA, CIA, CA (SA) along with professional accreditation
to professional bodies such as IRMSA, IIA, ISACA or any equivalent.
Knowledge in Risk Management, Accounting, Financial Management,
Auditing, Information and Communication Technology, Performance
Management and Legal Services is required. Five (5) years' experience as a
member of an Audit or Risk Management Committee in the public or private
sector and additional experience as an Audit or Risk Management Committee
Chairperson will be an added advantage. Skills: Beyond the academic and
professional qualifications, certain skills are essential for committee members.
These include: Analytical thinking: The ability to critically evaluate information
and assess risks. Communication: The ability to clearly and effectively
communicate issues. Independent judgment: The ability to make objective and
unbiased decisions. Courage to challenge: The ability to question assumptions
and raise concerns. Knowledge of relevant regulations and frameworks: A
thorough understanding of relevant legislations, regulations, and industry
standards, such as the Public Finance Management Act, Treasury
Regulations, ISO 31000, King Reports, COSO Framework, and the Public
Sector Risk Management Framework is a must. Qualifying candidates must
exhibit an independence of mind in deliberations and be proactive in advising
the Accounting Officer and the Department. Professional approach to duties,
including commitment of time and effort, ability to encourage openness and
transparency, and ability to work constructively with management is required.
Applicants may not be in the employment of the Department of Electricity and
Energy and must have no business or personal relationship with the
Department.
DUTIES : As an advisory Committee to the Accounting Officer in terms of the
requirements of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and according to
approved guidelines, the Risk Management Committee will: Assist the
Chairperson in the effective execution of his/her responsibilities relating to
management of risks, with the aim of achieving the organization’s objectives.
The committee should ensure that risks have been identified, assessed,
mitigated and monitored accordingly. The committee will review the
appropriateness of risk management processes and governance documents
and make sure that the identified risks are aligned to the Department’s strategic
objectives. The committee will carry out all its duties according to the approved
committee terms of reference. Applicants who do not comply with the
abovementioned requirements, as well as applications received after the
closing date will not be considered. Requirements stated on the advertised
posts are minimum inherent requirements; therefore, criterion for shortlisting
will depend on the proficiency of the applications received. The Department
reserves the right to determine suitable candidate(s) during the selection
process. Due to the larger number of responses anticipated, correspondence
will be limited to short-listed candidates only. Applicants who have not been
contacted during this period may regard their applications as unsuccessful.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Phillip Mphalo Tel No: (012) 406 7467
3
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025 at 16:00 (walk in) and 00:00 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the correct
job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your email.
Use the correct email address associated with the post. JPEG
(picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Failure to do so, your
application will be disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference
number, full correct Jobtitle and corret Department as per the advert must be
submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service
Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in posession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not eccept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate’s
suitability based on the posts’s technical and generic requirements. If you have
not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act(POPIA) Your
information will be used soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below
advertised post(s). The successful candidate will be expected to enter into an
employment contract and sign a performance agreement. The Department is
an equal opportunity affirmative action employer. The Employment Equity Plan
of the Department shall inform the employment decision. It is the Department’s
intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of
this post(s)
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/02 : PSYCHOMETRIST/ REGISTERED COUNSELLOR (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R712 599 - R789 489 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R811 662 - R899 085 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R916 437 - R1 014 705 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Labour Centre: De Aar Ref No: HR4/4/08/118 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Calvinia Ref No: HR4/4/8/119 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : B-Psych degree at (NQF7)/ Honours degree in Psychology/ Industrial
Psychology at (NQF8). Minimum experience required for appointment of this
post: Grade 1: 0 years’ experience, Grade 2: 8 years’ experience, Grade 3:
16 years’ experience. Knowledge: International Labour Organization
4
Conventions, Financial Management, Human Resource Management, Public
Service Act, Skills Development Act, Unemployment Insurance Act, Health
Professions Act, Employment Equity Act, COIDA, POPI Act. Skills: Planning
and organizing, Communication, Computer, Analytical, Presentation,
Interpersonal, Report Writing, Leadership, Networking.
DUTIES : Provide technical support to labour Centres for the delivery of Employment
Counselling services. Facilitate the referral of work- seekers to relevant
Employment Services and Active Labour Market Interventions. Co-ordinate the
dissemination of Career and Labour Market information to Labour Centres.
Establish and maintain relationships between Employment Counsellors and
relevant organizations. Co-ordinate the administration of Psychometric
Assessment, Supervise Administrative Personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Litheko Tel No: (053) 838 1632
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X5012, Kimberley, 8301 OR
hand deliver at Laboria House, c/o Pniel & Compound Street, Kimberley
applications: Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Kimberley. Email:
Jobs-NCDEAR@labour.gov.za email: Jobs-NCCAL@labour.gov.za
POST 24/03 : UIF CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER (X22 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Paarl (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/501 (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Somerset West (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/502 (X6
Posts)
Labour Centre: Swellendam Satellite (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/503
(X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Ceres Satellite (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/504 (X1
Post)
Labour Centre: De Doorns Satellite (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/505 (X2
Posts)
Labour Centre: Worcester (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/506 (X7 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/ Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Unemployment
Insurance Act and Regulations, Unemployment Insurance Contribution Act,
Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA), Treasury Regulations, Batho Pele Principles, Departmental
Policies, Procedures and Guidelines. Skills: Interview, Communication (verbal
and written), Computer Literacy, Listening, Interpretation (ability to interpret the
UI Act and Contribution Act), Conflict Management, Time Management,
Customer Relations, Analytical, Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, On job
training (Operational Systems).
DUTIES : Provide screening services. Process applications for UIF benefits. Register
payment continuation forms. Provide administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Q Bowman Tel No: (021) 441 8120
APPLICATIONS : WCJobs-PRL@labour.gov.za – Paarl Labour Centre
WCJobs-SW@labour,gov.za – Somerset West Labour Centre
WCJobs-SD@labour,gov.za – Swellendam Satellite Labour Centre
WCJobs-CS@labour.gov.za – Ceres Satellite Labour Centre
WCJobs-DD@labour.gov.za – De Doorns Satellite Labour Centre
WCJobs-WS@labour.gov.za – Worcester
Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Western Cape
POST 24/04 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: QUALITY ASSURER (X13 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Paarl (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/507 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Somerset West (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/508 (X3
Posts)
Labour Centre: Swellendam Satellite (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/509
(1X post)
Labour Centre: Ceres Satellite (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/510 (X2
Posts)
Labour Centre: De Doorns Satellite (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/511 (X2
Posts)
Labour Centre: Goodwood Satellite (Western Cape Ref No: HR4/4/10/512 (X1
Post)
Labour Centre: Worcester (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/513 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/ Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Unemployment
Insurance Act and Regulations, Unemployment Insurance Contribution Act,
Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA), Treasury Regulations, Batho Pele Principles, Departmental
5
Policies, Procedures and Guidelines Skills: Interview, Communication (verbal
and written), Computer Literacy, Listening, Interpretation (ability to interpret the
UI Act and Contribution Act), Conflict Management, Time Management,
Customer Relations, Analytical, Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, On job
training (Operational Systems).
DUTIES : Provide screening services. Process applications for UIF benefits. Register
payment continuation forms. Provide administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Q Bowman Tel No: (021) 441 8120
APPLICATIONS : WCJobs-PRL@labour.gov.za – Paarl Labour Centre
WCJobs-SW@labour,gov.za – Somerset West Labour Centre
WCJobs-SD@labour,gov.za – Swellendam Satellite Labour Centre
WCJobs-CS@labour.gov.za – Ceres Satellite Labour Centre
WCJobs-DD@labour.gov.za – De Doorns Satellite Labour Centre
WCJobs-GW@labour.gov.za – Goodwood Satellite Labour Centre
WCJobs-WS@labour.gov.za – Worcester Labour Centre
Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Western Cape
POST 24/05 : UI CLAIMS OFFICER: PAY MASTER (X10 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Paarl (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/514 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Somerset West (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/515 (X3
Posts)
Labour Centre: Ceres Satellite (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/516 (X2
Posts)
Labour Centre: De Doorns Satellite (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/517 (X2
Posts)
Labour Centre: Goodwood Satellite (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/518 (X1
Post)
Labour Centre: Worcester (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/519 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/ Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Unemployment
Insurance Act and Regulations, Unemployment Insurance Contribution Act,
Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA), Treasury Regulations, Batho Pele Principles, Departmental
Policies, Procedures and Guidelines Skills: Interview, Communication (verbal
and written), Computer Literacy, Listening, Interpretation (ability to interpret the
UI Act and Contribution Act), Conflict Management, Time Management,
Customer Relations, Analytical, Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, On job
training (Operational Systems).
DUTIES : Provide screening services. Process applications for UIF benefits. Register
payment continuation forms. Provide administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Q Bowman Tel No: (021) 441 8120
APPLICATIONS : WCJobs-PRL@labour.gov.za – Paarl Labour Centre
WCJobs-SW@labour,gov.za – Somerset West Labour Centre
WCJobs-SD@labour,gov.za – Swellendam Satellite Labour Centre
WCJobs-CS@labour.gov.za – Ceres Satellite Labour Centre
WCJobs-DD@labour.gov.za – De Doorns Satellite Labour Centre
WCJobs-GW@labour.gov.za – Goodwood Satellite Labour Centre
WCJobs-WS@labour.gov.za – Worcester Labour Centre
Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Western Cape
POST 24/06 : UI CLAIMS OFFICER: EMPLOYER SERVICES (X8 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Swellendam Satellite (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/520
(X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Ceres Satellite (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/521 (X2
Posts)
Labour Centre: De Doorns Satellite (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/522 (X2
Posts)
Labour Centre: Goodwood Satellite (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/523 (X1
Post)
Labour Centre: Worcester (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/524 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/ Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Unemployment
Insurance Act and Regulations, Unemployment Insurance Contribution Act,
Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA), Treasury Regulations, Batho Pele Principles, Departmental
6
Policies, Procedures and Guidelines Skills: Interview, Communication (verbal
and written), Computer Literacy, Listening, Interpretation (ability to interpret the
UI Act and Contribution Act), Conflict Management, Time Management,
Customer Relations, Analytical, Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, On job
training (Operational Systems).
DUTIES : Provide screening services. Process applications for UIF benefits. Register
payment continuation forms. Provide administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Q Bowman Tel No: (021) 441 8120
APPLICATIONS : WCJobs-SD@labour,gov.za – Swellendam Satellite Labour Centre
WCJobs-CS@labour.gov.za – Ceres Satellite Labour Centre
WCJobs-DD@labour.gov.za – De Doorns Satellite Labour Centre
WCJobs-GW@labour.gov.za – Goodwood Satellite Labour Centre
WCJobs-WS@labour.gov.za – Worcester Labour Centre
Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Western Cape
POST 24/07 : UI CLAIMS OFFICER: ASSESSMENTS (X9 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Labour Centre: Somerset West (Western Cape) Ref No:
HR4/4/10/525 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Swellendam Satellite (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/526
(X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Ceres Satellite (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/527 (X2
Posts)
Labour Centre: De Doorns Satellite (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/528 (X2
Posts)
Labour Centre: Goodwood Satellite (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/529 (X1
Post)
Labour Centre: Worcester (Western Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/10/530 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/ Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Unemployment
Insurance Act and Regulations, Unemployment Insurance Contribution Act,
Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA), Treasury Regulations, Batho Pele Principles, Departmental
Policies, Procedures and Guidelines Skills: Interview, Communication (verbal
and written), Computer Literacy, Listening, Interpretation (ability to interpret the
UI Act and Contribution Act), Conflict Management, Time Management,
Customer Relations, Analytical, Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, On job
training (Operational Systems).
DUTIES : Provide screening services. Process applications for UIF benefits. Register
payment continuation forms. Provide administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Q Bowman Tel No: (021) 441 8120
APPLICATIONS : WCJobs-SW@labour,gov.za – Somerset West Labour Centre
WCJobs-SD@labour,gov.za – Swellendam Satellite Labour Centre
WCJobs-CS@labour.gov.za – Ceres Satellite Labour Centre
WCJobs-DD@labour.gov.za – De Doorns Satellite Labour Centre
WCJobs-GW@labour.gov.za – Goodwood Satellite Labour Centre
WCJobs-WS@labour.gov.za – Worcester Labour Centre
Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Western Cape
POST 24/08 : BCEA INSPECTOR (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : East London Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/5/03 (X2 Posts)
Gqeberha Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/5/04 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Three years (3) tertiary qualification at NQF6 in Labour relations/ BCOM Law/
LLB. Valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures,
Skills Development Act, LRA, BCEA, Skills Development Levies Act, OHS Act,
COIDA, SABS codes, UIA, UI Contributions Act, Employment Equity Act,
Immigration Act. Skills: Facilitation, Planning and Organizing, Computer
literacy, Interpersonal, Conflict handling, Negotiation, Problem solving,
Interviewing, Presentation, Innovative, Analytical and Verbal and written
communication skills.
DUTIES : Plan and conduct substantive inspections with the aim of ensuring compliance
with all Labour legislation namely, BCEA, LRA, EEA, UIA COIDA, OHS and
UCA, Plan and execute investigations independently on reported cases
pertaining to contravention of labour legislations and enforce as and when
necessary including preparing for appearing in Court as the State witness. Plan
7
and conduct allocated pro- active (BLITZ) inspections regularly to monitor
compliance with labour legislation including compilation and consolidation of
reports emanating from such inspections, Plan and conduct Advocacy
campaigns on all labour legislations independently analyse impact thereof,
consolidate and compile report. Contribute at a higher level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Njamela Tel No: (043) 702 7500 – East London
Mr MP Ngqolowa Tel No: (041) 506 5000 – Gqeberha
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Private Bag X9084, East London,
5201 or hand deliver at IGI Building, Ensuco House, Cnr Oxford and Hill Str,
East London, 5201; or Direct your applications to Jobs-EC8@LABOUR.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre: Private Bag X6045, Port Elizabeth, 6000 or
hand deliver at VSN Centre 116 -134 Goven Mbeki Avenue, Port Elizabeth,
6000 or Direct your applications to Jobs-EC8@LABOUR.gov.za
8
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
It is the Department’s intension to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filing of this
post with a candidate whose transfer /promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : The Director-General, National Department of Health, Private Bag X399,
Pretoria. 0001. Hand delivered application may be submitted at Reception
(Brown Application Box), Dr AB Xuma Building, 1112 Voortrekker Rd, Pretoria
Townlands 351-JR or should be forwarded to recruitment@health.gov.za
quoting the reference number on the subject e-mail.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms M Shitiba
CLOSING DATE : 28 July 2025
NOTE : All short-listed candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise for SMS posts, the selection panel will recommend candidates to
attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the
DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments).
The competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment batteries.
Applications should be submitted on the new Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service department and should be accompanied by a CV only (previous
experience must be comprehensively detailed). The Z83 must be fully
completed (in line with DPSA Practice note), failure to comply will automatically
disqualify the applicant. Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualification and other relevant documents on application. Certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents will be requested prior to the final
selection phase. Applications should be on one PDF format (If emailed).
Applications received after the closing date and those that do not comply with
the requirements will not be considered. It is the applicant’s responsibility to
have foreign qualifications and national certificates (where applicable)
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Please note by
responding to the advertisement, you consent to the collection, processing, and
storing of your Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your information will be used solely for the
purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with third parties without prior
consent unless required by law. The Department reserves the right not to fill
the posts. The successful candidate will be subjected to personnel suitability
checks and other vetting procedures. Applicants are respectfully informed that
correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If notification of
an interview is not received within three (3) months after the closing date,
candidates may regard their application as unsuccessful. The Department will
not be liable where applicants use incorrect/no reference number(s) on their
applications.
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/09 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTARTION OFFICER – MR6 REF NO: NDOH
70/2025)
Chief Directorate: Legal Services
SALARY : R586 956 – R1 386 972 per annum, as per OSD
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and NQF 7 qualification in LLB Degree or Four Year
Legal qualification. At least eight (8) years’ appropriate post qualification
experience in litigation/advisory, legislative drafting, and contract vetting as
well as legal research. Knowledge of Consumer Protection Act, 2008 (Act 68
of 2008), Constitution of Republic of South Africa, 1996 (Act 108 of 1996),
Labour Relations Act, 1995, Promotion of Access to Information Act, 2000 (Act
2 of 2000), Promotion of Administrative Justice Act, 2000 (Act 3 of 2000), legal
drafting and planning and development law. Good communication (verbal and
written), interpersonal relations, problem solving, project management,
creative legal thinking and computer (MS Office package) skills. Ability to work
independently and as part of a team. Willingness to travel across the country
(provinces) as and when required. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Management and coordination of litigation and internal appeals. Ensure that all
litigation cases and/or matters are managed properly in order to reduce
unnecessary costs to the department. Ensure that various internal appeal
committees are timeously appointed in terms of the relevant legislation
administered by the department and that appeals are properly managed. Draft
and amend legal documents including but not limited to international
9
agreements, contracts and service level agreements. Ensure that the
agreements entered into by the department adequately protect its interests to
reduce the risks of litigation. Provision of legal opinions to the department and
ministry. Provide quality and timeous legal opinions that enhance service
delivery by conducting research, analysing legal questions, interpreting
relevant legislation and applying the relevant case law in the provision of legal
opinions. Drafting and amending legislation (Bills) administered by the
department in line with relevant instructions including the drafting, editing and
amending of regulations in the department. Ensuring that the department’s
legislative process is finalized within relevant timeframes. Ensure that
regulations are finalized within the specified agreed time frames. Management
of risk and audit queries and resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. LN Makhoshi Tel No: (012) 395 8470
POST 24/10 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CHILDREN ESPECIALLY IN DIFFICULT
CIRCUMSTANCES REF NO: NDOH 71/2025
Directorate: Child and Youth Health
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, plus competitive benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and a recognized three years’ Diploma (NQF 6) or
equivalent qualifications in Nursing or Health Promotion or Social Science.
Bachelor’s degree (NQF 7) in the above fields will be an advantage. At least
three (3) years’ experience working with or in the field of childcare and
protection and children’s rights. Knowledge of child health and public health
issues, implementation and application of programmes related to children’s
rights. Knowledge of relevant legislative framework and policy development
and analysis. Good communication (verbal and written including report writing),
interpersonal, problem solving, planning and organizing, and computer skills
(MS Office package). Ability to work well under pressure and independently
and in a team as well as frequent travelling. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Facilitate the development, implementation and monitoring of policy guidelines,
norms and standards for children in especially difficult circumstances. Provide
expert technical assistance to provinces on child healthcare and child
protection matters, liaise with internal and external stakeholders on issues
relating to child rights, child legislation, social crime, and the abuse, neglect,
and exploitation of children. Support and participate in national advocacy
initiatives, including the 16 Days of Activism for Non-Violence Against Women
and Children. Coordinate and compile health sector inputs for national and
international reports, including National Plan of Action for Children (NPAC),
United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNCRC), African
Charter on the Rights and Welfare of the Child (ACRWC). Reports related to
Family Services Assist in the development of information, education, and
communication (IEC) materials, and contribute to the design and
implementation of social mobilization and communication campaigns targeting
child health well-being.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Ngake Tel No: (012) 395 8382
10
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
KING HINTSA (TVET) COLLEGE
The Department and the College is committed to providing equal opportunities and practicing affirmative
action employment. It is our intention to promote representivity: (race, gender and disability) in the
Department through the filling of posts and a candidate whose appointment, transfer or promotion will
promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your applications: recruitment@khc.edu.za Kindly quote name
of the post you are applying for and its reference number in the subject line.
No faxed, postal or hand delivered applicants will be accepted.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025 @16:00, incomplete applications and applications received after
the closing date will not be considered.
NOTE : Do not separate the Z83 and CV. Scan all these into single document. Scanned
Applications must consist of fully completed and signed new Z83 Form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate, and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. The successful
candidate will be subjected to a security clearance and verification of
qualifications. Interviewed candidates will be subjected to a competency
assessment where necessary. Correspondence or communication will only be
entered into with short-listed applicants. The College /Department reserves the
right to withdraw any of the advertised posts at any time depending on the
need.
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/11 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: REGISTRATION SERVICES REF NO:
KHC/2025/07/REG
Nature of post: Permanent
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : King Hintsa TVET College-Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric or NCV Level 4 with a recognised 3 year National Diploma/Degree in
Business Administration, information System/Technology Public
Administration or any other relevant equivalent qualification; 5 years’
experience in the Administration/Data management environment or any
relevant field, in which 3 years must be supervisory experience in the
Administration environment or relevant field; Valid driver’s licence; Knowledge
of registry duties, practices as well as the ability to process information , and
assist with data management; Working knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service; Knowledge of storage and
retrieval procedures in terms of the working environment.
DUTIES : Develop review and monitor the implementation of policies and procedure in
relation to student registration, admission, scheduling and records; Provide
workshops on the implementation of policies and procedure in relation to
student registration, admission, scheduling and records; Develop marketing
strategies to attract new potential students; Manage student registration and
ensure proper procedure are followed; Develop and review registration
document for accuracy; Manage the database for new graduates and alumni
into the job market; Ensure provisioning of pre-entry support services to
student during the registration process in relation to (financial aid, bursaries,
student accommodation) ;Provide guidance and testing of students, with
regard to choice of and placement within programmes; Maintain and update
database of students enrolled within programmes ;Ensure that student
orientation is conducted in to the college and campuses; Ensure that learner’s
information are captured on Information Technology System (ITS).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O Kalimashe and Ms. P Soyizwapi Tel No: (047) 401 6400
POST 24/12 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: KHC/2025/07/LR
Nature of post: Permanent
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENRE : King Hintsa TVET College- Admin Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Matric or NCV Level 4 with a recognised 3-year Degree/National Diploma in
Industrial Relations/Labour Law and/or Human Resource Management. A
minimum of five (5) years of relevant experience within a Labour Relations
portfolio within public or private entities. 3 years at the Supervisory level. Sound
knowledge of labour legislation and prescripts within the TVET or Public sector
domain. Sound Knowledge of LRA, BCEA, PSA, PSR, CET ACT 2006, and
11
CET Amendment Act 2012, Higher Education sector and relevant public
service regulations and policies Demonstrable experience in project
management, collective bargaining and LR processes. Sound conflict-handling
and communication skills. Good organisational and interpersonal skills.
Computer literate (MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, and Outlook). Good
communication skills (written and verbal). Strategic thinking and meticulous
record keeping. Willingness to travel and a valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Investigate misconduct cases and compile investigation reports. Management
of Discipline, represent the Department during a formal disciplinary hearing,
provide advice on informal disciplinary hearings and ensure the implementation
of disciplinary sanctions. Investigate and finalise all grievances and complaints
received from employees in the Department / Colleges. Coordinate and provide
support in terms of representing the Department in all disputes referred to the
Public Service Sectoral Bargaining Council/General Public Service Sectoral
Bargaining Council/Education Labour Relations Council and the Commission
for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration. Manage the information and records
of all activities in the Labour Relations in the region. Manage resources of the
section. Monitor precautionary suspensions in the region. Render advisory
services to management and employees on dispute prevention and resolution.
Monitor and evaluate labour relations trends in the region. Facilitate training
and advocacy on labour relations matters in the region. Attend Departmental
Multi-Lateral Labour Forums in the region and Colleges. Ensure compliance
on capturing of cases on PERSAL. Provide monthly and quarterly reports to
Head Office.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O Kalimashe or Ms. P Soyizwapi Tel No: (047) 401 6400
POST 24/13 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: OFFICE OF THE PRINCIPAL (OFFICE
MANAGER) REF NO: KHC/2025/07/GOV
Nature of post: Permanent
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : King Hintsa TVET College
REQUIREMENTS : Matric or NCV Level 4 with a recognised 3-year National Diploma/Degree in
/Public Management/ Business Management / Office Management and
Technology / Social Sciences or related qualification. A qualification in
monitoring & Evaluation will be an added advantage. At least 5 years’ relevant
experience in strategic planning and public/ corporate administration
environment. Knowledge of Public Service legislations and policies.
Knowledge of PSET. Knowledge and understanding of the TVET/ CET
Administration and the Higher Education sector. Understanding of corporate
governance and Cost centre budgetary, expenditure and cash flow
management. Knowledge of Employment Equity Act, Public Service
Regulations and Public Service Act, Labour Relations Act and any other related
legislation. Must have a valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Render administrative/executive support services in the office of the principal.
Provide secretariat support to College Council, Council Committees, Academic
Board, Senior Management, and other approved committees. Provide strategic
management, monitoring, and evaluation services. Records management.
Management of all humans, financial and other resources of the unit. Ensure
completion of performance agreements by all employees in the unit,
Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O Kalimashe or Ms. S Soyizwapi Tel No: (047) 401 6400
POST 24/14 : MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS OFFICER REF NO:
KHC2025/07/MISO
Nature of post: Permanent
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : King Hintsa TVET College-Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric or NCV Level 4 with a recognised 3-year Diploma/Degree in Information
Technology/Information Management/Computer Science/Computing.
Minimum of 3-5 years working experience in Data Management and TVET MIS
and ITS environment will be an added advantage. Valid Driver’s License. PSET
sector and ITS experience will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : To be the first point of contact (first line support) for resolving MIS queries using
ITS and liaising directly with college staff. Assist in end user training and
supporting documentation. To document processes and procedures as
required. Assist with data updates and maintenance in line with funding body
regulations and guidelines to ensure college compliance. Support data
validation using SQL Server Business Intelligence Reporting Services.
Monitoring & Reporting on student numbers funded and current. Assisting in
the configuration and administration of: Timetable; Curriculum; and registers
including periods, class, room, and staff activities. Support Database
12
Developer in Centralised Integrated Report System (CIRS) report
maintenance. Maintaining and amending student Learning programmes
through the Programme Change, Leavers, Progression, and
Completion/achievement processes. Scheduling and reporting. Assisting with
Exams administration including exam entry and amendment files, downloading
/ processing results and ensuring exams are run in accordance with DHET
regulations. Administrative support to the MIS department. Enforcing College
procedures. General administration duties. To undertake any other duties
commensurate with the post.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O Kalimashe or Ms. P Soyizwapi Tel No: (047) 401 6400
POST 24/15 : TRANSPORT OFFICER REF NO: KHC2025/07/FAC
Nature of post: Permanent
SALAERY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : King Hintsa TVET College
REQUIREMENTS : Matric or NCV Level 4 with a recognised 3-year Diploma/Degree in
Management, Public Management, Business Management. 3 years relevant
experience in the Logistical and Transport environment. A valid driver’s license.
Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of Transport and Travel policies
administrative delegations and prescripts. Leadership skills, Analytical skills;
Good Financial Management; Computer literacy. Communication skills (written
and verbal); Report writing skills; Problem solving skills; Planning and
organising skills. Application and interpretation of legislation. Ability to work
under pressure.
DUTIES : Provide day to day management of vehicles in terms of usage and
maintenance. Ensure log sheets are controlled and completed for all trips.
Keep maintenance schedules and coordinate maintenance requirements.
Compile accidents reports and make follow ups. Manage travel arrangements.
Handle queries and liaise with different departments/units on fleet vehicles and
travel related issues. Ensure verification of travel documents and issuing of
order numbers. Manage processing of payments timeously. Verify the
authenticity, accuracy and correctness of invoices of services rendered.
Supervision of College Drivers. Ensure traffic fines are processed. Manage the
budget and administrative related services of the section. Monitor compliance
to Transport and Travel Policies and advise accordingly.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O Kalimashe or Ms. P Soyizwapi Tel No: (047) 401 6400
POST 24/16 : FINANCIAL AID (BURSARY) OFFICER REF NO: KHC/2025/07/FA
Nature of post: Permanent
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : King Hintsa TVET College – Msobomvu Campus
REQUIREMENTS : Recognized three (3) year National Diploma in Financial
Management/Accounting (NQF level 6). 3-5 years’ experience in bursary /
financial aid services. Basic knowledge of financial functions, practices as well
as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collate financial statistics.
Basic knowledge of the Public Service financial legislations, procedures and
Treasury Regulations (PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial Manual).
Knowledge of basic financial operating systems (ITS etc.). Must have a valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Conduct NSFAS online applications. Capture application on the system. Attend
to student queries at Campus level. Organise and / contract the filling system
as required. Assist with the coordination of bursary application processes.
Assist with Coordinating and monitoring of financial aid processes. Assist with
analysing the NSFAS provisionally funded students. Assist with the
coordination of bursary allocations. Assist with the coordination of providing
feedback to students relating to the progress of the bursary process as
communicated by NSFAS. Assist in reporting on all bursary allocations and
progress.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O Kalimashe or Ms. P Soyizwapi Tel No: (047) 401 6400
POST 24/17 : EXAMINATION OFFICER REF NO: KHC/2025/07/EXM
Nature of post: Permanent
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : King Hintsa TVET College – Centane Campus
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, Recognised Degree/Diploma in Education/ Administration or
equivalent qualification, 1-2 years in the examination services / Teaching and
Learning environment/ related field. Knowledge of White Paper on PSET,
Knowledge of the Public TVET sector and its regulatory and legislative
framework. Knowledge and understanding of the Higher Education sector.
Knowledge and understanding of TVETMIS, and ITS. Knowledge of practice
13
notes, national, provincial policy frameworks relevant to Education, Training
and Development. Must have a valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Capture term marks and Examination Marks. Issuing the of results and
Certification. Verifying of question papers and answer books. Organise and/or
construction the filling system as required. Assist lecturers with ITS during
enrolment. Ensure accuracy of information. Capture test and year marks as
well as attendance of learners. Record, organise, store and retrieve related
information and documents. Other offices administration duties as allocated.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O Kalimashe or Ms. P Soyizwapi Tel No: (047) 401 6400
POST 24/18 : ACADEMICS AND STUDENT SUPPORT SERVICES OFFICER REF NO:
KHC/2021/11/02
Nature of post: Permanent
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : King Hintsa TVET College-Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : M+3 years Degree or National Diploma in Social
Science/Psychology/Education or equivalent qualification. 3-5 years in the
Student Support Administration Education /Teaching and Learning
environment/related field. Knowledge of PSET Act and CET Act, knowledge
and understanding of Student Support Service Act, knowledge and
understating of electoral processes. Knowledge of Teaching and Learning.
Knowledge of career guidance and extra-curricular activities. Knowledge of
Skills Development Act, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations and
Labour Relations Act. Knowledge of the National Student Financial Aid
Scheme and related legislation. Knowledge of Public TVET sector and its
regulation and legislative framework. Knowledge of Ethical Regulatory and
legislative framework. Knowledge and understating of the Higher Education
sector. Knowledge of Education Act. Good communication and interpersonal
skills. Computer literacy. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide student support services. Provide student counselling or referral
services. Implement student work placement and Work Integrated Learning
(WIL) policies. Provide career guidance, counselling and academic support for
students. Implement the sport, recreation. Arts and culture programs for
student in the campus. Facilitate student governance and student leadership
development and exit support programme. Supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O Kalimashe or Ms. P Soyizwapi Tel No: (047) 401 6400
POST 24/19 : DEBTORS CLERK REF NO: KHC/2025/07/DC
Nature of post: Permanent
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : King Hintsa TVET College
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/NCV L4 or Equivalent. Minimum of 1-year relevant working
experience in Financial Accounting will be an added advantage. Have proven
competencies in: Communication (Verbal and Written), Analytical and Problem
solving, Attention to detail, Interpersonal relations, Planning and organising
skills, Basic Numeracy and Accuracy.
DUTIES : Render Financial Accounting transactions: Receive invoices, check invoices
for correctness, verification, and approval (internal control), Process invoices
(e.g., Capture payments), Collect cash, receive and capture cash payments as
well as file all documents. Perform Salary Administration support services
inclusive but not limited to: Receive salary advice, Process advice (e.g. check
advices for correctness, capture salaries, bonuses, salary adjustments,
capture all deductions etc). Perform bookkeeping support services: Capture
financial transaction, clear suspense accounts, record debtors and creditors,
process electronic banking transactions and compile journals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O Kalimashe or Ms. P Soyizwapi Tel No: (047) 401 6400
POST 24/20 : SECRETARY TO DEPUTY PRINCIPAL FINANCE REF NO:
KHC/2025/07/SEC
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Admin Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matric certificate Recognized National Diploma in Public
Administration/Business Management/Office Management (NQF Level 6) or
equivalent qualification Knowledge and Understanding of the TVET/CET
Administration. Basic knowledge of Financial Administration and Projects.
Proven computer literacy, including advanced Microsoft Office suite (Word,
Excel, Power-Point and Outlook.
DUTIES : Draft all letters, submissions, and memorandums. Preparing supporting
documents for meetings, receive and distribution of stationery to the relevant
officials. Assisting in the establishment and implementation of effective records
14
and document management systems in the office of the Deputy Principal
Innovation. Ensuring meetings are effectively organised and liaising with the
Chair to plan meetings. Coordinate all logistical arrangements for travelling and
meetings etc. Processing of claims for travelling and meetings etc, Arrange all
meetings, proceedings and activities of the above structures, compile agenda,
minutes, reports and other records of the above structures, distributions of
relevant documents for meetings of the above structures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr O Kalimashe or Ms. P Soyizwapi Tel No: (047) 401 6400
POST 24/21 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
KHC/2025/07/SCM
Nature of post: Permanent
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Leve 05)
CENTRE : King Hintsa TVET College-Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/NCV Level 4 with 2-3 years’ experience in Supply Chain
Management Environment Certificate in Financial Accounting Systems (FIS),
Diploma in Finance, Accounting, Internal Auditing, will be an added advantage.
Knowledge and understanding of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and
Treasury regulations.
DUTIES : Sourcing of quotations as per National Treasury Guidelines. Receive and
assess quotations to ensure that they comply with the minimum requirements
and procedures of SCM Ensure proper filling and safekeeping of documents.
Ensure timeous processing of payments to suppliers. Receiving and issuing of
stock items. Prepare request for invoices to Funders and follow up on their
payments. Perform other duties as delegated by the Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O Kalimashe or Ms. P Soyizwapi Tel No: (047) 401 6400
POST 24/22 : LAB/ WORKSHOP ASSISTANTS REF NO: KHC2025/07/LAB (X5 POSTS)
Nature of post: Permanent (PERSAL)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : King Hintsa TVET College: (Teko, Centane, Dutywa, Willowvale, Msobomvu
Campus)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent and specialized experience or post-secondary training.
Working knowledge of and experience configuring desktop computers and
Local Area Networks.
DUTIES : Assists in planning and presents learning experiences for K-5 students to
explain computer usage and help them become computer literate.
Demonstrates and assists students in developing skills in keyboarding, mouse
control and the use of various computer software applications. Develops lesson
plans and instructional materials suitable for verbal, auditory and visual
instruction of students with a wide range of mental, physical and emotional
maturities. Establishes and maintains standards of student behaviour
necessary to achieve a functional learning atmosphere in the classroom. Sets
up computers for classroom instruction; installs computer printers and
software; troubleshoots network, software and hardware malfunctions.
Maintains adequate number of working copies of software and handouts for
classes; maintains list of software and its recommended classroom usage.
Assists professional staff in administering standardized tests in accordance
with District testing program guidelines. Maintains various records such as
weekly class schedules and lab usage logs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr O Kalimashe or Ms. P Soyizwapi Tel No: (047) 401 6400
POST 24/23 : ADMIN CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT REF NO:
KHC/2025/07/HRM
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Willowvale Campus
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior certificate with appropriate experience in HR Administration. (A
National Diploma in Human Resources Management will be an added
advantage). Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Handle the administrative processes with regards to recruitment, selection, and
placement, which entail: Advertising vacancies, processing of applications,
attending interviews, writing submissions for appointments and appointment
letters, prepare and provide employment statistics to the Head of Human
resources. Ensure adherence to effective implementation of policies
regulations and Acts regarding HR. Process appointments, transfers,
promotions, relocations. Maintain and provide related statistical information.
Management of learners or interns within the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr O Kalimashe or Ms. P Soyizwapi Tel No: (047) 401 6400
15
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
The Department of International Relations and Cooperation is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer.
APPLICATIONS : Please e-mail your applications to the e-mail address indicated below each
post and quote the post name in the subject line of the e-mail address to
receive an acknowledgement; Hand-delivered applications can be submitted
to the OR Tambo Building, 460 Soutpansberg Road, Pretoria.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025. Applications received after the closing date will not be
considered.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new form Z83 (effective from 1 January
2021) (duly completed and hand signed) obtainable from any Public Service
department or on the DIRCO website - www.dirco.gov.za. For other relevant
information and how to apply, kindly visit the Department’s website
(www.dirco.gov.za) – home page under Jobs. Applications should be
accompanied by a detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV). Certified copies of
qualifications, Identity Document (ID), Drivers licence as well as any other
relevant documents will be submitted by shortlisted candidates only Received
applications using the incorrect Z83 for employment will not be considered. All
appointments will be subjected to a process of security clearance. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). All shortlisted SMS candidates will be
subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job, the logistics of which will be communicated by the
Department. Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection panel
will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial competency
assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of
competency-based assessments), using the mandated DPSA SMS
competency assessment tools; All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
personnel suitability checks and verification of qualifications; In line with
Cabinet decision taken on 2 March 2016, all applicants are required to indicate
in their Curriculum Vitae the number of Boards he/she is serving on. Where
this information is not provided, such application will not be considered; A pre-
entry certificate obtained from National School of Government (NSG) is
required for all SMS appointments. The course is available at the NSG under
the name: Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by
following the link below: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entryprogramme ; The successful candidate will have to complete a Financial
Disclosure form annually; We thank all applicants for their interest; DIRCO
reserves the right not to make appointments; Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within four (4)
months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 24/24 : CHIEF STATE LAW ADVISOR (INTERNATIONAL LAW)
Office of the Chief State Law Advisor (International Law)
This is a re-advertisement and applicants who applied previously must re-
apply.
SALARY : R1 741 770 per annum. This all-inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable
rules. The successful candidates will be required to sign a performance
contract with the Director-General of the Department.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of an LLB qualification. Admittance as an
Attorney or Advocate. At least 5 years of experience at Senior Management
level in Private Sector/Public Sector/ Academia. At least 10 years appropriate
post qualification experience in international law/ litigation, and or advisory.
SMS Pre-entry Certificate Offered by the National School of Government
(NSG). Competencies: Strategic Leadership and Capability Financial
Management People Management and Empowerment Client Orientation and
Customer focus Change Management Knowledge Management Problem-
solving and Analysis Service Delivery Innovation Knowledge and
understanding of relevant Public Service wide legislation. Knowledge of South
Africa’s Foreign Policy. Knowledge and understanding of National policies and
Prescripts. Knowledge and insight into South Africa’s history. Understanding
of International Trade and Investment. Knowledge of International and
Domestic Law. Knowledge and understanding of all acts and regulations
16
administered by the Department Extensive knowledge of international and
domestic court procedures Policy Analysis and Development. Good
communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and direction to the Office of the Chief State Law
Advisor. Provide legal advice on international law to all State Departments in
national, provincial, and local sphere of Government and other organs of state:
Formulate and provide legal advice in respect of the African Agenda, AU and
SADC Instruments, Protocols, Programmes and Institutions. Contribute and
advise on the formulation, codification and development of international law
and in respect of the negotiations of various legal instruments and processes.
Advise on the legal aspects of participation in the global system of governance.
Participate in and advise on inter alia Air Law, Climate Change, Environmental
conventions, Law of the Sea, Space law, Science and Technology, Antarctic
Treaty, Law of the Sea, Continental Shelf Coordinate and advise on South
Africa’s input in the work of UNIDROIT and WIPO. Coordinate and advice on
South Africa’s input in the work of The Hague Conference on Private
International Law. Participate in and provide for the implementation and
strengthening of international courts and tribunals, judicial institutions such as
ICC, AU Court of Justice, African Court on Human and Peoples Rights, ICTR,
ICTY, PCA, ICJ and arbitral tribunals. Participate, support coordinate and
advise on the relations with organisations such as the ICC. Provide advice on
matters related to immunities and privileges under international law.Provide
legal advice on domestic law to the Department. Act as custodian of
international agreements that South Africa is a party and manage legal library
collection. Manage litigations by and against the Department in South Africa
and abroad. Manage the overall performance of the Chief Directorate and
participate in corporate governance: Manage financial resources Provide
leadership and manage human resources Manage Planning Monitor and
Evaluate Participate in corporate governance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Fouché Tel No: (012) 351 1033/ Ms V Beshe Tel No: (012) 351 1327
APPLICATIONS : Please e-mail your application to csla-re25@dirco.gov.za
POST 24/25 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTICES AND
ADMINISTRATION
Branch: Corporate Management
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum. This all-inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable
rules. The successful candidates will be required to sign a performance
contract with the Director-General of the Department.
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of an undergraduate NQF level 7
qualification as recognised by SAQA. At least five (5) years’ experience at
Senior Management level within the Human Resource Management/
Administration environment. SMS Pre-entry Certificate Offered by the National
School of Government (NSG). Competencies: Strategic Leadership and
Capability Financial Management People Management and Empowerment
Client Orientation and Customer focus Change Management Knowledge
Management Problem-solving and Analysis Service Delivery Innovation
Honesty and Integrity Strategic Planning Policy Analysis and Development
Good Communication Planning and Organising Knowledge and understanding
of relevant public service legislation Knowledge and understanding of COLA
Understanding of Foreign Service Dispensation Knowledge and understanding
of Conditions of Service Knowledge and understanding of Human Resource
Practices Knowledge of South Africa’s Foreign Policy.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership in the overall management of the Human
Resources Business Unit. Participate in the departmental policy formulation
and strategy development. Manage the provision of human resource
management services within the Department. Manage and provide Foreign
Service Personnel administration services. Manage and administer the
provision of locally recruited personnel (LRP) services in the Departmental
Mission abroad. Manage the overall performance of the Chief-Directorate and
participate in corporate governance. Manage Financial Resources Provide
Leadership and manage Human Resources Manage Planning Monitor and
Evaluate Participate in Corporate Governance Support Senior Managers in
delivering their goals. Partner with line managers and build strategic relations
with other State departments on Human Resource Management matters.
Advise on compliance in the Department with legislative and other good
governance practices. Provide advice on people management issues.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Sekalo Tel No: (012) 301 8689
APPLICATIONS : Please e-mail your application to cdhrpa25@dirco.gov.za
17
POST 24/26 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT
Chief Directorate: Internal Audit
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum. This all-inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable
rules. The successful candidates will be required to sign a performance
contract with the Director-General of the Department.
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : This position, within the Internal Audit Unit of the Department of International
Relations and Cooperation has been established for the purposes of managing
the Internal Audit function and to ensure that Internal Audit efforts are aligned
to the vision, mission and objectives of the Department, thus ensuring value-
added internal audit services. Applicants must be in possession of an
appropriate NQF level 7 qualification as recognized by SAQA or equivalent
qualification. At least five (5) years’ experience at Senior Managerial level in
Auditing or related fields. SMS Pre-entry Certificate Offered by the National
School of Government (NSG). Competencies: Strategic Leadership and
Capability Financial Management People Management and Empowerment
Client Orientation and Customer focus Change Management Knowledge
Management Problem-solving and Analysis Service Delivery Innovation
Honesty and Integrity Strategic Planning Policy Development and
Implementation Good Communication Planning and Organising Knowledge
and understanding of Legislative Framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of South Africa’s domestic and Foreign Policy Objectives and
Strategies. Knowledge of Internal Auditing and Accounting Principles and
Practices and Business Practices. Knowledge of standards for the Professional
Practice of the Internal Auditing and Code of Ethics developed by Institute of
Internal Auditors. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act. Knowledge
of Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of Risk Management standards and
procedures and Corporate Governance Prescripts.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and direction to the Internal Audit Component and
manage all Internal Audit activities. Manage and conduct operational,
compliance and forensic audits. Manage and conduct governance,
performance and information technology audits. Oversee the provisioning of
technical and secretarial support services to the audit committee. Manage the
overall performance of the Chief Directorate and participate in corporate
governance Manage Financial Resources. Provide Leadership and manage
Human Resources. Manage planning. Monitor and evaluate. Participate in
Corporate Governance. Adopt appropriate audit approaches and
methodologies in accordance with the requirements of the PFMA, the Treasury
Regulations and the Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal
Auditing Effectively manage the Internal Audit function to ensure that
conditions and environment exist that are conducive to efficient, effective and
economical auditing. Ensure the economical, efficient and effective utilisation
of internal audit resources. Ensure adherence to the Standards for Professional
Practice of Internal Auditing.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Fouché Tel No: (012) 351 1033/ Ms V Beshe Tel No: (012) 351 1327
APPLICATIONS : Please e-mail your application to cdia25@dirco.gov.za
18
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development’s mandate is to ensure that there is
accessible justice system in our vibrant and evolving constitutional democracy. It is responsible,
amongst others, to enable Access to Justice for all, promote Constitutionalism, Rule of Law, Respect for
Human Rights; and to coordinate the State Litigation and Legal Advisory Services. The Department is
therefore presenting an opportunity to dynamic individuals with relevant competencies to join a dynamic
team in its quest to fulfill its mandate and deliver justice services to the people of South Africa s
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post.
CLOSING DATE : 28 July 2025
NOTE : The application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that
do not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for
submission. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications.
All shortlisted candidates for posts will be subjected to a technical and/or
competency assessment. A pre-entry certificate obtained from National School
of Government (NSG) is required before appointment for all SMS positions.
Candidate will complete a financial disclosure form and also be required to
undergo a security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must
provide the Police Clearance certificate from country of origin only when
shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of
vacant posts the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South
Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant
Human Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Reasonable accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities
including where driver’s license is a requirement. Correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not hear from us within 3
months of this advertisement, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Target.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the post of Senior Legal Administration Officer:
National Register for Sex Offenders (NRSO) with Ref No: 25/71/CS advertised
on Public Service Vacancy Circular 23 dated 04 July 2025 with closing date 21
July 2025 has been withdrawn. We apologies for the inconvenience caused.
OTHER POST
POST 24/27 : MAINTENANCE OFFICER (MR1-MR5) REF NO: 11/2025/WC
SALARY : R252 855 – R1 111 323 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office, Piketberg
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree or a four (4) year recognized legal qualification; Appropriate
post qualification legal experience. Knowledge of maintenance system,
Maintenance Act and family law matters; Understanding of all services and
procedures in the area of Maintenance; Skills and Competencies: Computer
literacy (MS Office); Good communication skills (verbal and written); Numeracy
skills; Good interpersonal relations; Problem solving skills; Report writing and
time management skills; Accuracy and attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Perform the powers, duties or functions of a
Maintenance Officer in terms of the Maintenance Act; Obtain financial
information for Maintenance enquiries; Guide Maintenance investigators in the
performance of their functions; Implement Bench orders; Provide reports and
compile statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Knowles Tel No: (044) 693 3113
APPLICATIONS : Please direct your application to: The Provincial Head: Private Bag X9171,
Cape Town, 8000 or hand deliver to Ms P Paraffin 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th Floor
Norton Rose House, Cape Town.
19
ANNEXURE G
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office (Midrand): Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Director: Human Resources, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand deliver applications to the Office
of the Chief Justice, Human Resource Management, 188, 14th Road,
Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685.
Gauteng: Johannesburg/Pretoria: Quoting the relevant reference number,
direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X7, Johannesburg, 2000. Applications can also be hand delivered
to the 12th floor, Cnr Pritchard and Kruis Street, Johannesburg.
Kimberley: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X5043, Kimberley,
8300. Applications can also be hand delivered to: The High Court, Sol Plaaitjie
Drive, Room B107, Kimberley.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public
Service Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive
CV only; contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must
be indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one
folder. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. Each application form must
be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both pages by the applicant.
The application must indicate the correct job title, the office where the position
is advertised and the reference number as stated in the advert. Failure by the
applicant to fully complete, sign and initial the application form will lead to 40
disqualification of the application during the selection process. Applications on
the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you be in a possession
of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate
from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Dual citizenship holders
must provide the Police Clearance certificate from the country of origin (when
shortlisted all non - SA Citizens will be required to submit a copy of proof of
South African permanent residence). Applications that do not comply with the
above-mentioned requirements will not be considered. Suitable candidates will
be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, financial checks,
qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference checks and employment
verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will
be expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo
a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The Office the Chief
Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided
to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose
of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application
was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal
information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your application
null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the security and
confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment process.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the posts of Judges Secretaries and Librarian,
Western Cape with Ref No: 2025/164/OCJ and 2025/166/OCJ and advertised
20
on Public Service Vacancy Circular 23 of 2025 have been withdrawn.
Apologies for any inconvenience caused.
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/28 ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: NETWORK ENGINEER REF NO: 2025/174/OCJ
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, National Diploma in Computer Science/ Information Technology/
equivalent qualification at NQF Level 6, A minimum of 3 years’ relevant
experience in the LAN/WAN environment, A certificate such as Cisco Certified
Network Associate (CCNA), Aruba Certified Switching Associate (ACSA), or
Huawei Certified ICT Associate (HCIA) or equivalent, a valid Driver’s license is
must. the following will be regarded as an added advantage - CCNP, ACSP
and HCIP. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Skills Development Act, Expert,
Knowledge of Desktop and Systems Support, ICT project Management, ICT
Change Management, Knowledge of the PFMA and Treasury Regulations,
Intermediate, Knowledge of Good Corporate Governance principles (King
Report), Expert.
DUTIES : Plan, design, implement and monitor the network infrastructure technologies
(LAN, WAN, VPN and VoIP), Develop network infrastructure specification,
configuration and administration, Monitor and ensure network infrastructure
including the data lines and internet break out, Develop and maintain disaster
recovery plans for network infrastructure, Maintain the data center/ server room
standards as set by policy. Ability to monitor and manage server room’s UPSs.
Candidate must be willing to work extended hours (after hours, weekends and
holidays) when required to do so.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Enquiries: Mr T Mohono Tel No: (010) 493 8754
HR enquiries: Mr K Mphela Tel No: (010) 493 2500
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/174/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals
POST 24/29 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2025/175/OCJ (X6 POSTS)
(48 months non-renewable contract)
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits. The successful
candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate, an LLB degree or a 4-year legal qualification (or equivalent).
A valid Driver’s license. Shortlisted candidates will be required to pass a typing
proficiency test. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Ensure attendance and screening of all incoming and outgoing calls. To ensure
that judgments are typed, and correspondences is appropriately captured and
saved in the correct locations and safeguarded; Provide general secretarial /
administrative duties to the Judge. Arrange and diarize appointments,
meetings, official visits and make travel and accommodation arrangements.
etc; Perform digital recording of court proceedings urgent court after hours and
ensure integrity of such recordings, store, keep and file court records safely:
after a case has been completed and opinion, decision or judgment entry
released, returns case file to the Registrar; Accompany the Judge to the court
and circuit courts; ensure that the register/template for the reserved judgments
is updated timeously and that the Statistics Officer is notified when judgment
remains outstanding and/or has been handed down, Cooperate with Judges,
Supervisors and co-workers as necessary to ensure the smooth and efficient
operation of the Court; Management of Judge’s vehicle and logbook; compile
data and prepares reports and documents for assigned judges as necessary,
including expenses reports, continuing legal hours, financial disclosure
statement, and case management; Arrange receptions for the Judge, and his
visitors and attend to their needs; To remind the Judge of invoices so that the
submission of the S&T claims can be processed. To ensure the submissions
of Cell phone and 3G data claims for process purposes. To ensure that stats
are submitted to the Statistical Officer timeously. To ensure that the Judge’s
logbook is submitted on or before 5th of every month to the Transport Office.
Management of Judge’s Library and updating of loose-leaf publications;
Ensure that the Judge’s stationery is ordered and collected; Execute Legal
research as directed by the Judge. Good communication skills (verbal and
written). Administration and organizational skills. Exceptional interpersonal
21
skills. Ability to meet strict deadlines and to work under pressure. Attention to
detail. Customer service skills and Computer literacy (Ms Word) and including
Dictaphone typing, Confidentiality and time management. Comply with
departmental policies and prescripts and procedures or guidelines.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms S Kajee Tel No: (010) 494 8589
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/175/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 24/30 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2025/176/OCJ (X11 POSTS)
(48 months non-renewable contract)
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits. The successful
candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Matric and an LLB degree or a four (4)
year legal qualification (or equivalent). A valid driver's license. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to pass a typing proficiency test. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post’s technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : To ensure attendance and screening of all incoming and outgoing calls. To
ensure that appointments and meetings of the Judge are diarized. To ensure
that the judgments are typed, and correspondence is appropriately captured
and saved in the correct locations and safeguarded. To ensure that signed
Judgments and orders are properly handed down in person in court and/or
virtually. To ensure that draft judgements are expeditiously handled and typed.
To ensure all visitors in the Judge’s Chambers are received, screened and their
queries are attended to. To ensure that all incoming and outgoing documents
are recorded and filed. To ensure that stationery for the Judge is ordered and
collected. To ensure that the court files are ready, the Judge has access to all
his allocated files and documents in the file on time as per duty roster. To
ensure that all files received from various sections(s) are verified by the
Registrar of that section. To ensure that the Judges Chamber register of
reviews is up to date and signed on receipt and return of review files to the
review Clerk. To ensure that the register/template for the reserved judgements
is updated timeously and that the Statistics Officer as well as the office of the
Judge President is notified when judgement remains outstanding and/or has
been handed down. To ensure that transcribed judgements from transcribers
reach the Judges for approval and signature. To prepare court rolls for
Opposed Motion and Urgent Court and distribute to stakeholders. To ensure
that the Heads of Argument from various stakeholders are received, filed and
verified. Informing parties involved via e-mail and or the time telephonically of
time and date when reserve judgements will be handed down, further notifying
them on how the judgement will be handed down. To ensure that the bench
book of the Judge is prepared, and files are in court before the court starts or
before the Judge enters the court. To ensure that all stakeholders involved are
present in court before commencement of proceedings. To ensure that all
cases are called and recorded as per court roll. Calling the case number and
the parties’ names on record before Judge can allow parties to start with their
matters. To ensure that the correct Oath ID or declaration is administered in
court, when required. To ensure that the exhibits are handled, controlled and
noted professionally and captured accordingly. To ensure that the correct order
is endorsed on the file and or on Case lines after it was granted by Judge in
court. To ensure that all the travel and accommodation arrangements are in
order on time, attend to sign the documents being signed prior approval. To
ensure that the Judge’s logbook is submitted on or before 5th of every month
to the Transport Officer. To ensure that the car is booked for either
maintenance and service, receive the pre-authorization for the Judge’s vehicle.
To ensure the submissions of Cell phone and 3G data claims for process
purposes. To ensure that court roll(s) are submitted to the Statistical Officer on
or before every Friday. To ensure that all updates on the loose leafs in the
Judge’s library are attended to. Good communication skills (verbal and written)
Administration and organizational skills. Exceptional interpersonal skills. Ability
to meet strict deadlines and to work under pressure. Attention to detail.
Customer service skills and excellent typing skills including Dictaphone typing.
Confidentiality and time management. Computer literacy (MS Word) and
research capabilities. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointments.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms M Campbell Tel No: (012) 492 6799
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/176/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
22
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 24/31 : POOL JUDGE’S SECRETARIES REF NO: 2025/177/OCJ (X3 POSTS)
(12 Months non-renewable Contract)
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits. The successful
candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric plus LLB degree; Valid driver’s license. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to pass a typing test Skills and Competencies:
Good written and oral communication skills. Computer literacy (Microsoft
office). Customer services skills. Interpersonal relations skills. Planning skills.
Organising and control. Able to work under pressure. Ability to multi-task.
Problem solving skills. Good interpersonal relations. Skills and competencies:
Proficiency in English, Proficiency in Microsoft Office Programs, Ability to
conduct research Problem solving, Planning and organizing, Ability to maintain
confidentiality, Good judgment and decision-making skills, Good interpersonal
relations with ability to take charge, effective communication (verbally and in
writing),Able to work under pressure, Ability to multitask, Telephone etiquette,
Professionalism, Ability to meet strict deadlines, Time management skills and
People skills.
DUTIES : To ensure attendance and screening of all incoming and outgoing calls. To
ensure that appointments and meetings of the Judge are diarized. To ensure
that the judgments are typed and correspondences are filed accordingly in the
right sections. To ensure that signed Judgments and orders handed down in
court or virtually are sent to the typist and the library (Judgements only). To
ensure that all visitors are received, screened and their queries are attended
to. To ensure that all incoming and outgoing documents are recorded and filed.
To ensure that stationery for the Judge is ordered and collected. To ensure that
the court files are ready and Judge has all documents in the file on time as per
duty roster. To ensure that all files received from various section(s) are verified
by the Registrar of that section. To ensure that the register of reviews is up to
date and signed on receipt and return of reviews to the review Clerk. To ensure
that he register/template of the reserved judgment is updated and notifying the
Statistics officer as well as the office of the Judge President when judgment
has been handed down. To ensure that the transcribed judgments from
transcribers reach the Judge for approval and signature. To prepare court rolls
for Opposed Motion and Urgent Court and distribute to stakeholders. To ensure
that the Heads of Arguments from various stakeholders are received, filed and
verified. Informing parties involved via e-mail and/or telephonically of time and
date when reserved judgments will be handed down, further notifying them on
how the judgement will be handed down. To ensure that the bench book of the
Judge is prepared and files are in court before the court starts or before Judge
enters the court. To ensure that all stakeholders involved are present in court
before commencement of proceedings. To ensure that all cases are called and
recorded as per court roll. Calling the case number and the parties’ names on
record before Judge can allow parties to start with their matters. To ensure that
the correct Oath ID or declaration is administered in court, when required. To
ensure that the exhibits are handled, controlled and noted professionally and
captured accordingly. To ensure that the correct order is endorsed on the
electronic court file after it was granted by Judge in court. To ensure that all the
travel, accommodation arrangements are in order on time, attend to sign the
documents being signed prior approval. To ensure that the Judge’s logbook is
submitted on or before 5th of every month to the Transport Officer. To ensure
that the car is booked for either maintenance and service, receive the pre-
authorization for the Judge’s vehicle. To remind the Judge of the invoices so
that the submission of the S&T claims can be processed. To ensure the
submission of Cell phone and 3G data claims for process purposes. To ensure
that court roll(s) is submitted to the Statistical Officer on or before every Friday.
To ensure that all updates on the loose leafs in the Judge’s library are attended
to. Execute legal research as directed by the Judge. Comply with departmental
Policies and Prescripts and procedures or guidelines, including signing of
payroll
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms M Campbell Tel No: (012) 492 6799
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/177/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
23
POST 24/32 : STATE ACCOUNTANT REF NO: 2025/178/OCJ
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate and a three-year National Diploma in Financial Management,
Public Finance, Public Accounting, Cost and Management Accounting or
equivalent relevant qualification at NQF level 6 with 360 credits as recognized
by SAQA. A minimum of two years relevant experience. A valid driver’s license.
Skills and Competencies: Public Service Act. Treasury Regulation. PFMA.
BAS. Government Accounting Standards (GRAP); Economic Reporting
Framework including Standard Charts of Accounts. Communication (written
and verbal). Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel, etc.). Analytical and
Mathematics skills. Conflict resolution. Ability to work under pressure. Self-
motivated. Reliable. Integrity and honesty. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and
the other must be an integrity (Ethical Conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Assist in the preparation of various budgets. Assist budget managers in
compiling their budget inputs and expenditure reporting, Capture budget in the
financial system (BAS), Manage the department’s budget and notify budget
managers on possible over/underspending and recommend solutions, Prepare
and provide budget managers with management reports (cashflow statements)
on a monthly basis, Assist in the compilation of expenditure reports to various
stakeholders, Assist in the preparation of financial statements (appropriation
statement), Ensure application of prescribed financial procedures and policies
including PFMA and Treasury Regulations, Perform other duties as directed.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms R Bramdaw Tel No: (010) 494 8486
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/178/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 24/33 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: LEGAL REF NO: 2025/179/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required
to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Northern Cape Division of The High Court: Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate. No experience is required. LLB degree will be an added
advantage. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of Public Services
Legislation, Prescripts and Regulations. Research skills. Communication skills
(verbal and written). Minute taking skills. Decision making and time
management skills. Good reporting skills. Creative and analytical thinking
skills. Computer literacy. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be
an integrity (Ethical Conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Conduct Legal Research for the Regional Court President/Chief Magistrate.
Compilation of statistics. Case flow management. Assisting Regional Court
Registrar. Provide administrative support to the Regional Court President/Chief
Magistrate.
ENQUIRIES : Technical/HR related enquiries: Ms L Wymers Tel No: (053) 492 3533
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/179/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals
24
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
NOTE : Other related documentation such as copies of qualifications, identity
document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany the application when
applying for a post as such documentation must only be produced by
shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA circular 19
of 2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or occupational
registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be completed as
these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or disclose all
required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No late
applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
pertaining to Senior Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical and competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained
from the National School of government is required prior to the appointment.
Candidates will be required to complete a financial disclosure form and
undergo security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must
provide a police clearance certificate from country of origin (only when
shortlisted). The Department of Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity
employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of
the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment
Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of the Department will be
taken into consideration. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within three (3) months of this
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful.
Faxed applications will not be considered. The department reserves the right
not to fill these positions. Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged
to apply and preference will be given to the EE Targets.
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/34 : CHIEF ENGINEER GRADE A REF NO: 250725/01
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Southern Operations
Dir: Operations Southern
SALARY : R1 266 450 – R1 446 921 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Gqeberha/Port Elizabeth
REQUIREMENTS : An Engineering Degree (B Eng/ BSc Eng) or relevant qualifications. Six (6)
years’ post qualification experience. Registration with Engineering Council of
South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineer. The disclosure of a Valid
unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge of Programme and Project
management. Engineering, Legal and operational compliance. Engineering-
and operational communication. Process knowledge and skills. Maintenance
skills and knowledge. Engineering design and analysis knowledge. Research
and development. Computer-aided engineering applications. Creating high
performance culture. Technical consulting. Engineering and professional
judgement. Strategic capability and leadership. Problem solving and analysis.
Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity. Financial management.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills. People
management. Conflict Management. Negotiation skills. Change Management.
DUTIES : Engineering design and analysis effectiveness. Perform final reviews and
approvals or audits on new engineering designs according to design principles
or theory. Co-ordinate design efforts and integration across disciplines to
ensure seamless integration with current technology. Pioneering of new
engineering services and management methods. Maintain engineering
operational effectiveness. Manage the execution of maintenance strategy
through the provision of appropriate structures, systems, and resources. Set
engineering maintenance standards, specifications, and service levels
according to organizational objectives to ensure optimum operational
availability. Governance. Provide technical consulting services for the
operation on engineering matters to minimize possible engineering risks.
Financial management. Ensure the availability and management of funds to
meet the MTEF objectives within the Engineering environment. Allocate,
control and monitor expenditure according to budget to ensure efficient cash
25
flow management. People management. Manage the development of human
resources. Promote transformation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. C Figlan Tel No: (041) 508 9702
NOTE : This appointment will be made on the minimum notch of the salary range,
however, a higher notch within the salary range of Grade A will be considered
based in relation to the provisions of the Public Service Regulation 2016 as
amended, i.e. provision of the candidate’s current salary advice.
POST 24/35 : SENIOR HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER: PMDS AND HRD REF NO:
250725/02
Branch: Water And Sanitation Services Management: Eastern Cape
Cd: Provincial Operations: Eastern Cape
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : King William’s Town
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma or Degree in Human Resource Management or Human
Resource Development. Three (3) to five (5) experience in Human Resource
Development and Performance Management and Development Systems with
PERSAL Introduction Certificate. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s
license. Knowledge of relevant Human Resource Prescripts (Public Service
Act and Regulations, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Skills Development
Act, Skills Levy Act, Labour Relations Act and PMDS Policies. knowledge of
Public Finance Management Act. Computer literacy, Communication Skills,
Project Management, Interpersonal relations, Presentation skills, Financial
Management skills, Report writing and minutes taking. Knowledge of
administrative procedures. Knowledge of implementing PMDS. Knowledge of
dispute resolution process. Knowledge of HRD issues. Problem solving and
analysis. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. Communication.
Accountability and Ethical Conduct.
DUTIES : Conduct PMDS training and awareness sessions. Compile PMDS compliance
status reports. Implement midterm and final assessment for non-SMS
members. Ensure compliance in terms of PMDS policies and information.
Interpret and implement PMDS policies and procedures. Advise management
on good administrative practices. Provide feedback on identified administrative
gaps. Provide assistance in the development of performance agreements.
Facilitate Departmental training needs assessment. Capture Performance
Agreements and Assessments on PERSAL. Render PMDS support services,
quality assurance of PMDS documents and ensure PMDS compliance.
Conduct Work Skills Plan workshop in the regions. Provide assistance in the
development of training programs for the region. Implement WSP according to
delegations. Develop new training programmes. Analyse skills development
gaps. Implement the Workplace Skills plan and training interventions as per
personal development plans. Develop a training plan. Facilitate the allocation
of Bursary. Implementation of induction programmes. Supervise staff and
resources in the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Tshevu Tel No: (043) 604 5372
POST 24/36 : HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER REF NO: 250725/03
Branch: Water and Sanitation Services Management: Eastern Cape
Cd: Provincial Operations: Eastern Cape
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : King William’s Town
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma or Degree in Human Resource Management or equivalent.
One (1) to three (3) years’ experience in Human Resource Management. The
disclosure of a Valid unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge of Pension Case
Management System. Knowledge of Online Claim Management System
(Comp-easy). Knowledge of administrative procedures. Disciplinary
knowledge of Human resources management. Knowledge of Public Service
Act and Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of Basic Financial Operating
System (PERSAL). Basic Financial Management and knowledge of PFMA.
Disciplinary knowledge of Human Resources. Knowledge of dispute resolution
process. Knowledge of Recruitment and Selection processes. Knowledge of
Management. Problem solving and Analysis. Communication. Accountability
and Ethical Conduct. Attention to detail. Willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Measure compliance to HR policies and procedures. Provide training on HR
policy & procedure. Continuously monitor the interpretation and
implementation of policies and DPSA directives. Provide input in the alignment
of departmental policies with DPSA and PSR. HR provision (recruitment and
selection, appointments, transfers, verification of qualification, secretariat
functions at interviews, absorptions, probations periods, etc). responsible for
drafting submissions for appointments, secondments, acting appointments and
Grade Progression. Termination of service. capturing pension cases on PCM.
26
Supervision of Pension Administration, implementation of GEPF regulations
and processes. Prepare reports on human administration issues and statistics.
Keep statistics of HR administration or HR provisioning activities. Prepare
reports on human administration issues and statistics. Prepare and consolidate
reports on personnel administration issues. Provide guidance to the
department/ personnel on human resources administration matters to enhance
the correct implementation of personnel administration practices/policies. Keep
PERSAL report up to date on the system. Compile monthly reports. Render
policy advisory service to the department based on the legislative mandates.
Provide feedback on identified administrative gaps. Assist in the
implementation of approved resolutions. Supervision of staff. Responsible for
injury on duty cases. Capturing of injury on duty cases on Online Claim
Management System (Comp-easy).
ENQUIRIES : Mr MK Noah Tel No: (043) 604 5323
27
ANNEXURE I
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF ROADS AND TRANSPORT
APPLICATIONS : To apply for the below positions, please apply online at
http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. For general enquiries please contact Human
Resource on 0833240044/ 0837924851. Only online applications will be
considered.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
NOTE : In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, Females and People
with Disabilities are encouraged to apply. Applicants must utilise the most
recent Z83 application form for employment, issued by the Minister for the
Public Service and Administration in line with Regulation 10 of the Public
Service Regulations, 2016. All fields in the New Z83 form must be completed,
initialled and signed. Furthermore, a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV)
must also be attached. Failure to attach the completed Z83 and
Comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV) will result in disqualification. The New
Z83 form is obtainable from any Public Service Department or the DPSA
website www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. Only shortlisted candidates will be
requested to submit certified copies of qualifications, identity document and
valid driver’s license (where driving/travelling is an inherent requirement of the
job) not older than six (06) months. It is our intention to promote representation
(race, gender and disability) in the Public Service through the filling of posts
and candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote
representation will receive preference. It is the Department’s intention to
promote equity through the filling of all numeric targets as contained in the
Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication
of race, gender and disability status is required. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The Department reserves the right not to
appoint. If you do not receive any response from us within 3 months, please
accept your application was unsuccessful. It is a requirement of these positions
for a candidate to produce a pre-entry (Nyukela) certificate issued by the
National School of Government prior to appointment. Candidates are required
to undergo pre-entry requirement course online to obtain the certificate
endorsed by the National School of Government. The course is available at
National School of Government under the name Certificate for Entry into an
SMS and full details can be sourced by following the link: https:
//www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 24/37 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: TRANSPORT REF NO: REFS/023005
Branch: Transport
SALARY : R1 741 770 – R1 962 090 per annum, (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion of 30% that
may be structured in terms of applicable rules. Which includes state’s
contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary). The successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance
agreement within three months after assumption of duty.
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIRMENTS : Postgraduate (NQF Level 8) in Civil Engineering/ Transport Economics /
Transport Management/ Urban Planning as recognized by SAQA. At least 8
years’ experience at a senior management level within Transport management
environment/field. Drivers’ license. Nyukela Pre-Entry SMS Certificate.
Competencies: A working knowledge and understanding of the Government
regulatory frameworks and policies governing transport and roads (Provincial
Medium Term Development Plan Gauteng vision 2023; National Land
Transport Strategic Framework; Provincial Land Transport Strategic
Framework; Departmental service delivery principles, PSR, PFMA, PSA;
Departmental Strategic Planning; Departmental Annual Performance Plan).
Skills: Strategic capability and leadership, problem solving and analysis.
Creativity, Financial management, Customer focus and responsiveness,
communication, computer, negotiation, conflict management and change
management skills. Planning, organizing and negotiation skills.
DUTIES : Manage, coordinate and integrate the overall planning of transport in the
province. Manage the planning of transport infrastructure in the province.
Manage the development of roads and transport policies and promote IGR.
Ensure the effective implementation of the Gauteng Freight Implementation
Strategy and Integration of rail into provincial transport network. Oversee the
provision of integrated public transport services Manage modal integration and
28
special projects. Manage public transport operations. Manage Road Traffic Act
(RTA) fee collection services and eNatis. Manage the registration authorities
and ensure compliance of the legislation. Manage Provincial Registration
Authority functions. Manage the administration of the issuing of operating
licenses, the conversion of radius-based permits and the implementation of the
Taxi Recapitalization Project (TRP). Adjudicate applications for operating
licenses. Oversee and monitor public transport. Conduct investigation on any
matter relating to land transport in the province and make recommendations to
the MEC. Provide input on policy matters affecting operating license
applications, monitoring and overseeing public transport in the province.
Participate in the development of the strategy for the Department. Ensure the
development and implementation of the business plan and the operational
plans of the unit. Manage the overall performance of the branch/unit. Create
and build partnerships with various internal and external stakeholders in
support of the execution of the function. Provide leadership and strategic
direction within the unit in identifying policy gaps, determining policy goals and
draft policy documents as required. Ensure effective risk management and
compliance with legislation, regulations, DRT policies and procedures. Ensure
compliance with all audit requirements. Manage the resources of the
component and perform generic management functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Diana Lekoma-Manyadu Tel No: (011) 355 7591
POST 24/38 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: ROADS CONSTRUCTION REF NO: REFS/023006
Branch: Roads Infrastructure
SALARY : R1 436 022 – R1 716 933 per annum, (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion of 30% that
may be structured in terms of applicable rules. Which includes the state’s
contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary). The successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance
agreement within three months after assumption of duty.
CENTRE : Head Office (Johannesburg)
REQUIRMENTS : NQF level 7 in Civil/Structural Engineering/Built Environment as recognized by
the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Minimum of 5 years at
senior management level with experience within transport infrastructure
and/Built environment. Professional Body (such as Engineering Council of
South Africa (ECSA), South African Council for the Project and Construction
Management Professions (SACPCMP), South African Council for Quantity
Surveying Profession (SACQSP) etc. A valid driver’s license. Pre-Entry SMS
Certificate. Knowledge of SLAs, Construction contract law & administration,
Engineering Profession Act, 2000, Gauteng Transport Infrastructure Act 2001,
National Roads Traffic Act. 1996, National Environmental Management Act,
1998, Colto Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Works, General
Conditions of Contract (GCC & FIDIC), Departmental technical standards 7
code of procedures. Knowledge of legislation and policies related to the field
or line of work. Skills: Strategic capability and leadership skills. Problem solving
and analysis. Creativity, Financial management, customer focus and
responsiveness communication, computer, negotiation, conflict management
and change management skills. Planning and organising skills. Extensive
experience in planning management and execution of roads construction
projects will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Manage overall programming, budgeting, and reporting of capital projects.
Manage, coordinate and oversee the implementation of construction of
Departmental Roads Infrastructure /Capital Projects. Monitor project
management efficiencies according to organizational goals to direct and
indirect services for the attainment of organizational objectives. Provide project
management support. Render Occupational health and safety service. Manage
and maintain the construction of the roads in the regions. Manage construction
standards. Manage construction quality assurance. Ensure that project
standards, specifications and service levels according are set to departmental
objectives to ensure optimum operational availability. Oversee the
management of construction management guidelines, processes, standards
and strategies. Identify construction trends and opportunities for businesses
processes improvement. Approves recommendations for changes and
improvements to existing construction management guidelines, standards,
policies and procedures. Oversee implementation of guidelines, standards,
policies, procedures and strategies and related prescripts. Ensure the
development and implementation of support tools. Monitor the implementation
of compliance and applicable policies and legislation. Ensure the
implementation of sound effective and efficient internal control system. Manage
Resources (Human, Finance, Asset, Equipment etc).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Mmaphuti Mokobane Tel No: (011) 355 7349
29
ANNEXURE J
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Limpopo Department of Agriculture and Rural Development is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer with clear employment equity targets. Applications are hereby invited for the filling of the
vacant posts, which exist in the Limpopo Department of Agriculture and Rural Development. Women and
people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants using electronic format must quote the relevant reference number
on the application and apply on the following website:
https://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za and applicants submitting applications in a
printed hard copy (manual or hand delivery) must quote the relevant reference
number on the application and forward to the below addresses.
For Head office: Polokwane, LDARD, Mokopane Laboratory, Makhado
Laboratory; Towoomba Research Centre; Mara Research Centre; Haartebees;
Tompi Seleka College and Madzivhandila College: The Head of Department,
Limpopo Department of Agriculture and Rural Development, Private Bag
X9487, Polokwane, 0700 or hand delivered to: Office 48, Temo Towers Floor
2, 67/69 Biccard Street, Polokwane, 0699.
Mopani District: The Director Mopani District Limpopo Department of
Agriculture and Rural Development, Private Bag X577, Giyani, 0826 or hand
delivered to: Old Parliamentary Building, Giyani, 0826.
Waterberg District: The Director Waterberg District Limpopo Agriculture and
Rural Development, Private Bag X1048, Modimolle, 0510 or hand delivered to:
NTK Building, Modimolle, 0510.
Capricorn District: The Director: Capricorn District, Limpopo Department of
Agriculture and Rural Development, Private Bag X28, Chuenespoort, 0745 or
hand delivered to: Block 28 Next to Traffic Government offices: Lebowakgomo.
Sekhukhune District: The Director: Sekhukhune District, Limpopo
Department of Agriculture and Rural Development, Private Bag X01,
Chuenespoort, 0745 or hand delivered to: Block 27 Next to Traffic Government
offices: Lebowakgomo.
Vhembe District: The Director: Vhembe District, Limpopo Department of
Agriculture and Rural Development, Private Bag X2247, Sibasa, 0970 or
Physical address: Handed in at Makwarela Government offices.
CLOSING DATE : 01 August 2025
NOTE : It is compulsory for the applicant to complete all the mandatory fields of the E-
recruitment System. Once all the fields in an E-recruitment System are
completed, the applicant shall confirm that they understand that by applying
electronically, they agree that all the information presented is true, correct, and
legally binding. All applications submitted through an electronic format shall be
accepted as the final application and may not be amended or supplemented in
any way after the closing date indicated in the advertisement. Applicants
submitting applications in a printed hard copy (manual or hand delivery) must
utilize the most recent Z83 application for employment form as issued by the
Minister for the Public Service and Administration in line with Regulation 10 of
the Public Service Regulation, 2016, as amended, failure to do so will results
in disqualification. The Z83 form must be completed in a manner that provides
sufficient information about the candidate and the post he or she applies for by
completing all relevant fields. The declaration must be signed in order for an
applicant to be considered. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the new z83 form by the applicants: All the fields in Parts A, B,
C, and D must be completed. In Part B, all fields must be completed in full
except the following; South African applicants need not provide passport
numbers, If an applicant responds "no" to the question I' Are you conducting
business with the State or are you a Director of a Public or Private Company
conducting business with the State?" then the answer to the next question "In
the event that you are employed in the Public Service, will you immediately
relinquish such business interests?" can be left blank or indicated as not
applicable. A "not applicable" or blank response will be allowed on the question
"if your profession or occupation requires official registration, provide date and
particulars of registration”, if you are not in possession of such registration.
Noting there is limited space provided for Part E, F & G, applicants often
indicate "refer to Curriculum Vitae (CV) or see attached", this is acceptable as
long as the CV has been attached and provides the required information. If the
information required is not provided in the CV, the applicant may be
disqualified. It must be noted that a CV is an extension of the application of
employment Z83, and applicants are accountable for the information that is
provided therein. The question related to conditions that prevent re-
appointment under Part F must be answered (Applicants currently employed
by the public service do not need to complete the section). The application
must include only completed and signed Z83 form and a recently updated
30
comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience). Certified copies of
Identity Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as
well as a driver's license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the date of the interview date. The applicant
may submit additional information separately where the space provided on z83
form is not sufficient. Applicants who apply for more than one position are
requested to submit separate applications for each position they wish to apply
for. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only due to the
large number of applications we envisage to receive and if you have not heard
from us within 90 days of the closing date, please accept that your application
has been unsuccessful. However, should there be any dissatisfaction,
applicants are hereby advised to, within 90 days, request reasons from the
Department for any administrative action which has adversely affected them in
terms of section 5(1)(2) of the Promotion of Administrative Justice Act 3 of
2000. By virtue of applying, you are consenting that the department subject
you to personnel suitability checks e.g. the verification of educational
qualifications, previous experience, citizenship, reference checks, financial
checks and security vetting. Candidates with foreign qualifications are advised
to attach SAQA accreditation of their qualifications. As per DPSA directive on
human resources management and development for public service
professionalization volume 1, “All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and
the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment”. Successful
incumbents will be expected to sign a performance agreement within three
months of the assumption of duty and be required to disclose their financial
interest in accordance with the prescribed regulations. Failure to comply with
the above requirements will result in the disqualification of the application. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment for the advertised
posts. The employment decision shall be made by the Employment Equity Plan
for the Department. Note: Due to austerity measures, the department will not
carry any related costs (transport, accommodation, and meals) for candidates
attending interviews.
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/39 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LANDCARE AND LANDUSE MANAGEMENT (X4
POSTS)
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with MMS dispensation.
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District Ref No: LDARD 1/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Mopani District Ref No: LDARD 2/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Waterberg District Ref No: LDARD 3/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Capricorn District Ref No: LDARD 4/6/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF Level 7) undergraduate qualification in
Environmental Science / B Agricultural Management or equivalent appropriate
tertiary qualification as recognised by SAQA. Five (5) years post qualification
experience of which three (3) must be Assistant Director level within Natural
Resource Management. A valid driver’s licence (with the exception of people
with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Sound knowledge and
understanding of engineering legislation and policy frameworks. Sound
knowledge and understanding project management Knowledge in surveying
and designing all engineering types of projects e.g. contours, waterways, stock
watering systems. Knowledge of computer. Determine the potential of soils for
irrigation.
DUTIES : Manage and control the planning and design of conservation structures in
compliance with environmental and conservation legislations. Coordination of
projects. Manage and control the prescribed administration of financial aid
schemes with regard to the conservation of natural resources and
implementation of norms and standards as prescribed by DAFF. Manage and
control extension services on land care. Study technological advances and
best practices in order to perform land care functions according to the required
standards. Coordinate agricultural risk and disaster management. Provide
recommendations on applications for rezoning and sub-division of agricultural
land.
ENQUIRIES : Sekhukhune District: Ms. Laka MA Tel No: (015) 632 7000 or Ms. Mphahlele
RS Tel No: (015) 632 7000
Mopani District: Ms. Malatji MA and Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 811 9837 or Tel
No: (015) 811 1189
Waterberg District: Mr. Matjiu SK Tel No: (014) 717 4949 or Ms. Kekana RM
Tel No: (014) 717 1324.
Capricorn District: Ms. Sebatjane LD Tel No: (015) 632 8609 or Ms. Moeti M
Tel No: (015) 632 8619
31
POST 24/40 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RURAL DEVELOPMENT COORDINATION REF NO:
LDARD 5/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with MMS dispensation.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF level 7) undergraduate qualification in
Agriculture/ Community Development or equivalent appropriate tertiary
qualification as recognized by SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience within
Community Facilitation of which three (3) must be Assistant Director level. A
valid driver’s licence (with the exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge,
Competencies and Skills: Extensive knowledge and understanding of Public
Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Relevant DPSA Prescripts. Extensive
knowledge of Land & Agrarian Reform Policies. Ability to source and analyse
information. Organisational Communication Effectiveness. Problem Analysis.
Self-Management. Budgeting and Financial Management. Customer Focus
and Responsiveness. Developing Others. Planning and Organising skills.
Problem Solving and Decision-Making. Project Management. Team
Leadership.
DUTIES : To provide Coordination and facilitation of Rural Development Strategy in the
Province. Facilitate stakeholder engagement for Post settlement support.
Facilitate and coordinate Agri Parks initiatives. Coordinate District
Development Models (DDM). Facilitate Military Veterans. Coordinate all CRDP
projects with DALRRD.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/41 : STATE VETERINARIAN: ANIMAL DISEASE CONTROL AND
EPIDEMIOLOGY REF NO: LDARD 6/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with MMS dispensation.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF level 7) undergraduate qualification in
BVSc or BVMCh as recognized by SAQA. One (01) to Two (02) years’
experience in the related field. A valid driver’s licence (with the exception of
people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Sound and in-
depth knowledge of relevant Acts, Regulations, policies, and understanding of
the legislative framework governing the Public Service. Excellent in-depth
knowledge of the transmission of important animal diseases, both locally and
internationally. Excellent in-depth knowledge of animal production systems and
animal disease prevention strategies and methodologies. Excellent in-depth
knowledge of animal disease containment, control and eradication strategies
and methodologies. Good knowledge of relevant legislation and policies.
Knowledge of policy making procedures. Knowledge of the operation of the
agricultural sector. Knowledge of the interdependence of industries within the
agricultural sector. Strategic capability & Leadership. Program and project
Management skills. Change Management skills. Communication skills. Conflict
Management skills. Policy analysis skills. Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate the management of the sub-directorate Epidemiology as a State
Veterinarian through Veterinary Epidemiology and animal health risk
assessment. Provision of veterinary epidemiology services to Limpopo
Veterinary Services. To optimise animal disease prevention and control in the
Limpopo Province utilising various strategies. Coordinate and develop
veterinary strategy, policy, and legislation for disease prevention, surveillance,
and control. To perform all administrative and related functions. Keep up to
date with regards to the applicable prescripts, policies, procedures,
technologies and new developments to be able to render an efficient and
effective Animal Health support service. Manage and utilise resources (human
and physical) in accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/42 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RISK, ANTI-CORRUPTION AND INTEGRITY
MANAGEMENT REF NO: LDARD 7/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with MMS dispensation.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
32
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF level 6) undergraduate qualification in Risk
Management / Auditing or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as
recognized by SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience within Enterprise Risk
Management of which three (3) must be Assistant Director level. A valid driver’s
licence (with the exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge,
Competencies and Skills: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant
prescripts, and application of Risk Management, Business Continuity and
Ethics Management as well as understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service and standards for good practice (King IV, The
International Organization for Standardization (ISO). Experience of, and insight
into legislation which impacts on risk management. Proven extensive
experience in: Integrating, embedding and implementing effective Risk,
Business Continuity and Ethics Management processes and best practices.
Extensive knowledge of the following: Business Continuity and Ethics
Management processes and implementation. Proven management
competencies and experience. Action-oriented and results-driven. Ability to
work in a highly pressured environment and driven by a sense of urgency to
meet deadlines. Provide expertise, counsel and advocacy in. Thorough
understanding of policy formulation and co-ordination and implementation.
Core Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership. People Management
and empowerment. Programme and project management. Financial
Management. Change management. Process competencies: Knowledge
Management. Service delivery innovation. Problem solving analysis. Client
orientation and customer focus. Communications. Personal Attributes:
Responsiveness. Pro-activeness. Professionalism. Accuracy. Flexibility.
Independent. Co-operative. Team player. Supportive. Willing to work under
changing and difficult circumstances.
DUTIES : Develop and monitor the implementation of Risk and Integrity Management
Programmes. Develop, monitor and analyse Risk Management Reports.
Manage Integrity, Remunerative Work Outside Public Service (RWOPS) and
Lifestyle Audits Reports. Manage, co-ordinate, monitor and facilitation of
committees. Manage, Conduct Education and Awareness Campaign on Risk,
Integrity and Business Continuity Management. Manage and utilise resources
(Financial, Human, And Physical) in accordance with relevant directives and
legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/43 : GIS PROFESSIONAL GRADE A REF NO: LDARD 8/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R761 157 per annum, (OSD), all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with individual needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an undergraduate 4-year B degree (NQF Level 7) qualification
in GISc or appropriate tertiary qualification as recognized by South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) in GISc. Three (03) years post qualification
GISc professional experience required. Current registration with South African
Geomatics Council (SAGC) formerly known as PLATO is compulsory. Valid
driver’s license (with the exception of the people with disabilities). Knowledge,
Competencies and Skills: Technical: Programme and project management.
GIS, legal and operational compliance and GIS Implementation. Standards
development. Policy formulation. GIS operational communication. Process
knowledge and skills. Maintenance skills and knowledge. Mobile equipment
operating skills. Systems skills. Spatial modelling design and analysis
knowledge. Research and development. GIS applications. Creating high
performance culture. Technical consulting. Professional judgment.
Accountability. Generic: Strategic management and direction. Problem solving
and analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Analytical skills. Creativity.
Self-management. Financial management. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Communication and listening skills. Computer skills.
Delegation and development of others. Planning, organising and execution.
Ability to manage conflict. Language proficiency. Knowledge management.
Negotiation skills and Change management.
DUTIES : Provide GISc to support institutional decision making. Policy making and
institutional strategic guidance. Conduct Research. Project and Financial
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
33
POST 24/44 : CANDIDATE ENGINEER (X4 POSTS)
Appointment on a limited period (contract) not exceeding forty-eight (48)
consecutive months for purpose of meeting statutory requirements for
professional Engineering Council for South Africa (ECSA) registration.
SALARY : R761 157 per annum, (OSD), all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with individual needs.
CENTRE : Mopani District Ref No: LDARD 9/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District Ref No: LDARD 10/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Vhembe District Ref No: LDARD 11/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Waterberg District Ref No: LDARD 12/6/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate degree (B Eng/ BSC(Eng) qualification in
Engineering or appropriate tertiary qualification in Engineering as recognized
by SAQA. Current Registration with Engineering Council for South Africa
(ECSA) as an Engineer in training is compulsory upon appointment. Valid
driver’s license (with the exception of the applicants with disabilities).
Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Technical: Project Management.
Engineering design and analysis knowledge. Research and Development.
Computer-aided Engineering applications. Knowledge of legal Compliance.
Technical report Writing Networking. Generic: Decision making. Teamwork.
Analytical skills. Creativity. Self-management. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills. Planning and organising.
Problem solving and analysis.
DUTIES : Design new systems to solve practical engineering problems (challenges) and
improve efficiency and enhance safety. Office administration. Research and
development.
ENQUIRIES : Mopani District: Ms. Malatji MA and Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 811 9837 or Tel
No: (015) 811 1189
Sekhukhune District: Ms. Laka MA Tel No: (015) 632 7000 or Ms. Mphahlele
RS Tel No: (015) 632 7000.
Vhembe District: Mammburu TD Tel No: (015) 963 2005 or Rathogwa MM Tel
No: (015) 963 2007.
Waterberg District: Mr. Matjiu SK Tel No: (014) 717 4949 or Ms. Kekana RM
Tel No: (014) 717 1324.
POST 24/45 : QUALITY ASSURANCE MANAGER REF NO: LDARD 13/6/2025 (X1 POST)
(Twelve months fixed term contract)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Madzivhandila College
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF Level 8) postgraduate qualification and
Professional Qualification in Education or equivalent appropriate tertiary
qualification as recognised by SAQA. Qualification in Agriculture will be an
added advantage. A minimum of 3-5 years appropriate management
experience. A valid driver’s licence (with the exception of people with
disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Knowledge in policy
formulation, interpretation and implementation. Knowledge of all relevant
legislative frameworks governing Education and Training Institutions. Sound
knowledge of quality assurance. Planning & Organizing skills. Formal training
and presentation skills. Computer proficiency skills will be tested. Relevant
quality assurance certification.
DUTIES : To manage all Agricultural Training Institute (ATI) policies. To ensure total
quality assurance systems and procedures. To coordinate accreditation
processes with Council of Higher Education (CHE). Ensure accountability on
quality planning. Ensure compliance with the accreditation requirements linked
to curriculum and staff development. Coordinate all ATI committees and
partnerships. Perform and oversee administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/46 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RURAL DEVELOPMENT FACILITATION AND
SUPPORT SERVICES (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Capricorn District Ref No: LDARD 14/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District Ref No: LDARD 15/6/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF level 8) postgraduate qualification in
Agriculture or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognized by
SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years relevant experience at supervisory level
in the Agricultural Advisory environment. A valid driver’s license (with the
exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills:
Extensive knowledge and understanding of Public Service Act, Public Service
34
Regulations, Relevant DPSA Prescripts, Division of Revenue Act, Public
Finance Management Act, Land Redistribution for Agricultural Development
Policy, Land Reform Act, 1997 (Act 3 of 1997), Polices and Strategies: APAP,
RAAVC, Limpopo Development Plan, National Policy on Comprehensive
Producer Development Support. Project management skills, Computer literacy
(Excel Spreadsheets, Power Point and Microsoft Word), Responsiveness; Pro-
activeness; Professionalism; Accuracy; Flexibility; Independent; Co-operative;
Team player; Supportive; Flexible; Willing to work under changing and difficult
circumstances. Strategic capability and leadership, People Management and
empowerment, Programme and project management, Financial Management
Change management. Knowledge Management, Service delivery innovation,
problem solving analysis, client orientation and customer focus,
communication.
DUTIES : Coordinate and conduct social facilitation and participatory community
development processes. Facilitate skills development. Facilitate co-operation
between communities and public and private sector organizations. Sensitize
rural communities on rural development initiatives. Conduct household profiling
services. Provide post settlement support services. Establish and strengthen
existing institutions for socio-economic development. Intergovernmental
coordination municipalities, provincial and national departments.
ENQUIRIES : Capricorn District: Ms. Sebatjane LD Tel No: (015) 632 8609 or Ms. Moeti M
Tel No: (015) 632 8619
Sekhukhune District: Ms. Laka MA Tel No: (015) 632 7000 or Ms. Mphahlele
RS Tel No: (015) 632 7000
POST 24/47 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EXTENSION AND ADVISORY SERVICES REF
NO: LDARD 16/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Vhembe Far North
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF level 8) postgraduate qualification in
Agriculture/ Crop Production or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years relevant experience at
Supervisory level in Extension and Advisory Services. Current registration with
a professional body e.g. South African Council for Natural Scientific
Professions (SACNASP) is compulsory. A Valid driver's license (with the
exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills:
Extensive knowledge in agricultural advisory. Knowledge of production
planning and management. Knowledge of Public Service Legislation. IDPS,
PGDS and CASPJ extension norms and standards. Report writing skills,
Computer skills, Problem solving skills, Analytical skills, and ability to
communicate with stakeholders at all levels. Knowledge of new agricultural
technology and agricultural technical knowledge. Knowledge of project
monitoring and evaluation. Knowledge of planning and organising, Facilitation
skills. Networking skills and knowledge of other agricultural programmes, e.g.
CASP, Letsema, Extension Recovery Plan (ERP), Land care and Fetsa Tlala.
Language proficiency will be tested. Thorough knowledge report writing,
problem solving, decision making, communication, computer literacy,
presentation. Management and financial, Goal driven, Dedicated,
Assertiveness, well discipline, conflict management, leadership development,
teamwork and good communication.
DUTIES : Provide leadership and allocate responsibilities ties to the extension and
advisory personnel in the service center. Ensure the provision of institutional
and technical support to all Agricultural programmes. Ensure technical support
to poverty alleviation programmes, food, security, youth, disabled, woman,
emerging and commercial farmers. Monitoring and evaluation of extension and
advisory personnel (All personnel in service centre) in relation to the planned
programmes. coordinates linkages with stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mammburu TD Tel No: (015) 963 2005/ Rathogwa MM Tel No: (015) 9632007
POST 24/48 : CONTROL AGRICULTURAL RESOURCE TECHNICIAN REF NO: LDARD
17/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Mopani North
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF level 6) undergraduate qualification in
Engineering or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognised by
SAQA. Current registration with the Engineering Council of South Africa
(ECSA) is compulsory. A minimum of 6 years appropriate experience. A Valid
driver's license (with the exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge,
Competencies and Skills: Knowledge in surveying and design of all
engineering types of projects (contours, waterways, stock watering systems,
irrigation systems, subsurface draining systems, water run off control,
35
conservation farm planning and the design of animal housing). Knowledge of
spreadsheets, computerized and/or farm planning. Good Labour relations.
Good interpersonal skills. Capacity building within communities. Determine the
potential of soils for irrigation.
DUTIES : Manage and control the planning and design of conservation structures in
compliance with environmental and conservation legislation. Co-ordination of
projects (including inter alia projects funded by Land Care and CASP). Manage
and control the prescribed administration of financial aid schemes (e.g. the soil
conservation subsidy scheme) with regard to the conservation of natural
resources and the implementation of norms and standards as prescribed by
the National Department of Agriculture. Manage and control extension services
on land care. Keep up to date with regard to the applicable prescripts, policies,
procedures, technologies and new developments to be able to render an
efficient and effective technical service. Perform administrative and related
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Malatji MA and Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 811 9837 or Tel No: (015) 811
1189.
POST 24/49 : SENIOR AGRICULTURAL ECONOMIST: AGRO-PROCESSING AND
VALUE ADDITION SERVICES REF NO: LDARD 18/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF Level 8) postgraduate qualification in
Agriculture with Agricultural Economics / Agribusiness as a major subject or
equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognised by SAQA. Three (3)
years relevant experience required Agri-business. Valid driver’s licence (with
the exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills:
Knowledge of people management skills. Knowledge of PFMA and financial
management. Practical experience in the use of Microsoft Excel, Microsoft
word, power point presentations. Good communication and presentations
skills, Knowledge of economic and financial statements. Analytical techniques.
DUTIES : Conduct in depth research of developments/ patterns/ trends in agricultural
sector. Conduct municipality area situational analysis to complete sector and/
or commodity specific profiles. Identify gaps/ threats and opportunities with
impact to the sector and/ or farmers. Facilitate access to market and finance
for farmers. Provide agricultural economic/ agribusiness advice to internal and
external stakeholders. Develop Agribusinesses/ projects planning.
Implementation and monitoring of departmental development programmes
such as RAAVC, Agri BEE, Agro-processing and value chain. Assist farmers
with certification e.g. SAGAP, and participation on Local Municipality economic
development planning forums.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/50 : SENIOR AGRICULTURAL ADVISOR: EXTENSION AND PARTNERSHIP
REF NO: LDARD 19/6/2025 (X1 POST)
(Twelve months fixed term contract)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Madzivhandila College
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF Level 8) postgraduate qualification in
Agriculture or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognised by
SAQA. A minimum of 3 years proven relevant experience in implementing
Agricultural programmes. Current registration with a South African Council
Natural Scientific Professions National professional body (SACNASP) or other
applicable and recognised statutory body is compulsory. Valid driver’s licence
(with the exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies And
Skills: Knowledge of extension methodology; Understanding of governmental
service delivery environment, teamwork, PFMA and LRA, Community
Development, IDPs, PGDS, CASP, Land-care, Land Reform Crop and Animal
Conflict Resolution, Management Knowledge, Knowledge of Policy
interpretation, Supervisory and management skills, Knowledge of Project
planning and Management, Extension and Advisory skills, Leadership skills,
Knowledge of Financial Management, Advanced communication/presentation
skills, Report Writing Skills, Computer literacy with emphasis to MS Word, MS
Power point and MS Excel.
DUTIES : Render scientific and technical advice to internal and external clients under
mentorship to ensure sustainable development. Provide technical support in
terms of planning, advice and after-care for organized agriculture and other
agricultural stakeholders. Provide technical support on Government funded
projects such as CASP and LRAD and also assist with planning, advice and
36
after-care. Promote sustainable production of Agricultural products;
Involvement in research activities under guidance of seniors. Perform
administrative and related functions. Keep up to date with regard to the
applicable prescripts, policies, procedures, technologies and new
developments to be able to render efficient and effective extension services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/51 : LAND USE PLANNER (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District Ref No: LDARD 20/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Mopani District Ref No: LDARD 21/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Waterberg District Ref No: LDARD 22/6/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF Level 6) undergraduate qualification in
Urban Planning / Geography or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of Three (03) to Four (04) years’ experience
in land use or urban planning related field. A valid driver’s licence (with
exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies, And Skills:
Proficiency in GIS and planning software. Strong understanding of zoning laws
and environmental regulations. Excellent written and verbal communication
skills. Ability to analyze complex data and present findings clearly. Experience
with public speaking and community engagement. Strong organizational and
project management skills. Knowledge of sustainable development practices.
Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act.
Project Management skills. Developing Planning Skills. Problem Solving Skills.
Community engagement skills. Communication Skills. Decision Planning
Skills. Leadership and Management Skills. Conflict Management Skills. Report
Writing Skills. Knowledge of Computer applications. Experience with
technology and software. Problem-solving skills. Customer service skills.
Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles.
DUTIES : Develop and implement land use plans and zoning regulations. Conduct site
analysis and feasibility studies. Collaborate with government agencies,
developers, and stakeholders. Prepare reports, maps, and presentations for
public hearings. Evaluate environmental, economic, and social impacts of land
use proposals. Ensure compliance with local, state, and federal regulations.
Facilitate community engagement and public input sessions. Monitor and
update comprehensive plans and land use policies. Advice on land
development applications and permits. Use GIS and other planning tools for
spatial analysis.
ENQUIRIES : Mopani District: Ms. Malatji MA and Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 811 9837 or Tel
No: (015) 811 1189
Sekhukhune District: Ms. Laka MA Tel No: (015) 632 7000 or Ms. Mphahlele
RS Tel No: (015) 632 7000.
Waterberg District: Mr. Matjiu SK Tel No: (014) 717 4949 or Ms. Kekana RM
Tel No: (014) 717 1324.
POST 24/52 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE TRAINING AND
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: LDARD 23/06/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF Level 6) undergraduate qualification in
Human Resource Development/Management /Public Management/
Administration or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognized by
SAQA. PERSAL Training Certificate. A minimum of 3-5 years’ relevant working
experience in Human Resource Development, Skills Development, and
Training. A valid driver’s license (with the exception of people with disabilities).
Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Sound and in-depth knowledge of
relevant prescripts and understanding of the legislative framework governing
the Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act,
Public Finance Management Act, Experience of, and insight into legislation
which impacts on human resource development. Negotiation Skills. People
Management. Financial Solving Planning & Organizing. Time Management.
Strategic Planning. Policy Analysis and Development. Good Communication
Skills. Group dynamics. Diversity Management. Facilitation Skills. Co-
ordination Skills. Leadership Skills. Change and Knowledge Management.
DUTIES : Coordinate and facilitate skills programmes. Coordinate the implementation of
Learnership/RPL, Internships, Experiential and Programs. Facilitate
Administration of Bursaries. Provide Induction and Orientation Program.
Manage and utilize resources (Human and Physical) in accordance with
relevant directives and legislation.
37
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3587.
POST 24/53 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE PLANNING AND
INFORMATION REF NO: LDARD 24/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF Level 6) undergraduate qualification in
Human Resource Management/Public Management or equivalent appropriate
tertiary qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3-5 years’ relevant
working experience in Human Resource Planning and Information. A valid
driver’s licence (with the exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge,
Competencies and Skills: Knowledge of HR Planning Prescripts; PFMA, Public
Service Regulation and Guideline on integrated Human Resource Planning in
the Public. Policy Analysis. Planning and organizing. Financial Management.
Communication Skills. MAP. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Coordinate the development and review of Human Resource Plan. Coordinate
the development and review of Employment Equity Plan. Coordinate the
development and review of Retention Strategy/Policy. Coordinate the
achievement of 50% for women SMS and 4% for PWD’s. Coordinate the
implementation of the employee satisfaction survey and exit interviews.
Maintain human resources and staff establishment information. Manage and
utilize resources (Human and Physical) in accordance with relevant directives
and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3587
POST 24/54 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FACILITIES AND RECORD MANAGEMENT REF
NO: LDARD 25/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF Level 6) undergraduate qualification in
Public Management / Record Management or equivalent appropriate tertiary
qualification as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of Three (3)- Five (5) years
relevant experience in Facilities and Record Management. A valid driver’s
licence (with the exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge,
Competencies and Skills: Management Knowledge. Policy interpretation,
Knowledge of record management, Project Management, Leadership skills.
Facility Management, Human Resource Management, Change Management,
Communication skills and Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Facilitate the provision of records management, Facilitate registry, counter and
messenger services. Facilitate facilities services. Manage and utilize resources
(Human and Physical) in accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Laka MA Tel No: (015) 632 7000 or Ms. Mphahlele RS Tel No: (015) 632
7000.
POST 24/55 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING AND POLICY
COORDINATION REF NO: LDARD 26/6/2025 (X1 POST)
Re-advertisement, those applied before need to re-apply.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate NQF 6 qualification in Public Management/
Public Administration or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as
recognised by SAQA. A minimum Three (3)- Five (5) years’ experience in
Strategic Planning and Policy Coordination. A valid driver’s licence (with
exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills:
Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service i.e Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Public Finance
Management Act, Medium Term Development Plan). Program and project
Management skills. Financial Management skills. Change Management skills.
Communication skills. Conflict Management. Responsiveness. Pro-activeness.
Professionalism. Accuracy. Flexibility. Independent. Co-operative. Team
player. Supportive. Willing to work under changing and difficult circumstances.
DUTIES : To facilitate the implementation of strategic planning and policy coordination.
Facilitate the development of strategic, business and operational planning.
Facilitate, consolidate and submit organizational performance reports.
38
Alignment of strategic, business and operational planning. Facilitate the
development, coordination and implementation of policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/56 : GIS TECHNOLOGIST REF NO: LDARD 27/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R453 576 per annum (OSD), all-inclusive package to be structured
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate undergraduate 3 to 4 years GIS degree
qualification or equivalent appropriate relevant tertiary qualification as
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 3-year post qualification GISc
Technologist experience. Current registration with PLATO is compulsory. A
valid driver’s licence (with the exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge,
Competencies and Skills: Technical: Use science and Technology effectively
and critically. Strong GIS skills with two or more GIS packages (e.g. ESRI).
Analytical, Statistical and Mathematical skills. Project management.
Programme and project management. Research and Development.
Knowledge of legal Compliance. Technical report Writing. Creating high
performance culture. Networking. Generic: Ability to solve Problems. Collect,
organize and critically evaluate. Information. Organization and management
skills. Work effectively with others as a member of a team. Communication
Literacy. Computer skills. Planning, organizing and execution. Language
Proficiency. Listening skills. Teamwork.
DUTIES : Develop and implement innovative GISc technology and applications.
Technical functions. Maintain GISc unit effectiveness. Governance. Financial
Management. People management. GIS Implementation. Conduct research
and implement new GIS standards.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/57 : AGRICULTURAL ECONOMIST (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Vhembe West: Ref No: LDARD 28/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Vhembe East Ref No: LDARD 29/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Waterberg West Ref No: LDARD 30/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune South Central Ref No: LDARD 31/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Mopani West Ref No: LDARD 32/6/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF level 8) postgraduate qualification in
Agricultural Economics/Agribusiness or equivalent appropriate qualification as
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of two (2) – three (3) years working
experience in Agricultural Economist. Valid driver’s license (with the exception
of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies, and Skills: Practical
experience in the use of Microsoft Excel, Microsoft word, power point
presentations. Good communication and presentations skills, Knowledge of
economic and financial statements. Analytical techniques.
DUTIES : Assist with research of developments/patterns/trends in agricultural sector.
Assist with municipal area situational analysis to complete sector and/ or
commodity specific profiles. Assist with identification of gaps/ threats and
opportunities with impact to the sector and/ or farmers. Assist with facilitation
of access to market and finance for farmers. Assist with provision of agricultural
economic/ agribusiness advice to internal and external stakeholders. Assist
with the development of Agribusinesses/ projects planning. Assist with the
implementation and monitoring of departmental development programmes
such as RAAVC, AgriBEE, Agro-processing and value chain. Assist farmers
with certification e.g., SAGAP, and participation in Local Municipality economic
development planning forums.
ENQUIRIES : Vhembe District: Mammburu TD Tel No: (015) 963 2005 or Rathogwa MM Tel
No: (015) 963 2007.
Waterberg District: Mr. Matjiu SK Tel No: (014) 717 4949 or Ms. Kekana RM
Tel No: (014) 717 1324.
Mopani District: Ms. Malatji MA and Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 811 9837 or Tel
No: (015) 811 1189
Sekhukhune District: Ms. Laka MA Tel No: (015) 632 7000 or Ms. Mphahlele
RS Tel No: (015) 632 7000.
POST 24/58 : VETERINARY PUBLIC HEALTH OFFICER REF NO: LDARD 33/6/2025 (X1
POST)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
39
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF Level 6) undergraduate qualification in
Animal Health / Environmental Health/ Veterinary Public Health or equivalent
appropriate tertiary qualification as recognised by SAQA. One (1) – two (2)
years’ experience in Veterinary Services. Valid registration with the South
African Veterinary Council. A valid driver’s licence (with the exception of people
with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Excellent
interpersonal, communication and negotiation skills. Time management.
Thorough knowledge of Animal Diseases Act, 1984 (Act 35 of 1984). Thorough
knowledge of Animal Identification Act, 2002 (Act 6 of 2002). Knowledge of
Meat Safety Act, 2000 (Act 40 of 2000). Thorough knowledge of specific
diseases control programmes and eradication schemes. Knowledge of the
PFMA. Computer proficiency. Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Render a veterinary public health service in terms of the Meat Safety Act (Act
40/2000) and other relevant legislation. Ensure meat hygiene and food safety.
Ensure legislative compliance through awareness campaigns, extension
practices & law enforcement (to the public, existing & proposed clients
regarding food safety). Ensure compliance with legislation, national &
international export requirements (Individual export or district export facilities
& international trade requirements). Perform administrative and related
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/59 : VETERINARY TECHNOLOGIST REF NO: LDARD 34/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mokopane Laboratory
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF level 6) undergraduate qualification in
Veterinary Technology or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as
recognized by SAQA. Current registration with the South African Veterinary
Council as Veterinary Technologist is compulsory. No experience required.
Valid driver’s license (with the exception of people with disabilities).
Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Proven interpersonal, negotiation &
communication skills (verbal & written). Time management. Computer
proficiency skills will be tested. Quality assurance, Reproduction, Parasitology,
hygiene survey and Serology.
DUTIES : Render a Veterinary Laboratory Testing service. Populate data bases (e.g.
LIMS) to provide veterinary statistics for national and international planning.
Keep up to date with regard to the applicable prescripts, policies, procedures,
technologies and new developments to be able to render an efficient and
effective Veterinary Diagnostic laboratory service. Promotion of a safe
laboratory environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/60 : AGRICULTURAL ADVISOR: FARM MANAGEMENT REF NO: LDARD
35/6/2025) (X1 POST)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Madzivhandila College
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF Level 8) postgraduate qualification in
Agriculture (Animal Production) or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification
as recognised by SAQA. No experience required. Compulsory registration with
a South African Council Natural Scientific Professions National professional
body (SACNASP) or other applicable and recognised statutory body is
compulsory. A valid driver’s licence (with exception of people with disabilities).
Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Extensive knowledge of agricultural
advisory. Knowledge of production planning and management. Knowledge of
Public Service Legislation. IDPS, PGDS and CASP, extension norms and
standards. Report writing skills, Computer skills, Problem solving skills,
Analytical skills, and ability to communicate with stakeholders at all levels.
Knowledge of new agricultural technology and agricultural technical
knowledge. Knowledge of project monitoring and evaluation. Knowledge of
planning and organising, Facilitation skills. Networking skills and knowledge of
other agricultural programmes, e.g. CASP, Letsema, Extension Recovery Plan
(ERP), Land care and Fetsa Tlala. Language proficiency will be tested.
DUTIES : To promote sustainable development in the agricultural sector through the
application of the appropriate extension principles and methods. Provide
technical support for organised agriculture and other agricultural stakeholders
and assist in planning, advice, and aftercare support. Promote sustainable
40
production of agricultural products. Determine the research needs of the area.
Establish and enhance the relationship with clients (internal and external)
stakeholders. Provide continuous support to ensure sustained production and
quality improvement. Render scientific and technical advice to internal and
external clients to ensure sustainable development. Conduct farmers’ days,
demonstrations, and information days to the farming communities. Conduct
situational analysis to identify the real needs and facilitate the implementation
of best practices and technology. Empower and build capacity of producers
and commodity groups to ensure self-reliance. Provide advice on various
subjects like crop production. Establish networks and linkages with all
stakeholders, keep relevant databases up to date, such as famers’ databases.
Compile and submit monthly and quarterly reports. Keep up to date regarding
applicable prescripts, policies, procedures, and advisory technology services.
Implement programmes such as CASP, Letsema, Land care.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/61 : AGRICULTURAL ADVISOR (X10 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Capricorn South Ref No: LDARD 36/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Capricorn North-Western Ref No: LDARD 37/6/2025 (X2 Posts)
Vhembe Central Ref No: LDARD 38/6/2025 (X3 Posts)
Vhembe West Ref No: LDARD 39/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Vhembe Far North Ref No: LDARD 40/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Waterberg North Ref No: LDARD 41/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Mopani North Ref No: LDARD 42/6/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF Level 8) postgraduate qualification in
Agriculture or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognised by
SAQA. No experience required. Compulsory registration with a South African
Council Natural Scientific Professions National professional body (SACNASP)
or other applicable and recognised statutory body is compulsory A valid driver’s
licence (with exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies
and Skills: Extensive knowledge of agricultural advisory. Knowledge of
production planning and management. Knowledge of Public Service
Legislation. IDPS, PGDS and CASP, extension norms and standards. Report
writing skills, Computer skills, Problem solving skills, Analytical skills, and
ability to communicate with stakeholders at all levels. Knowledge of new
agricultural technology and agricultural technical knowledge. Knowledge of
project monitoring and evaluation. Knowledge of planning and organising,
Facilitation skills. Networking skills and knowledge of other agricultural
programmes, e.g. CASP, Letsema, Extension Recovery Plan (ERP), Land care
and Fetsa Tlala. Language proficiency will be tested.
DUTIES : To promote sustainable development in the agricultural sector through the
application of the appropriate extension principles and methods. Provide
technical support for organised agriculture and other agricultural stakeholders
and assist in planning, advice, and aftercare support. Promote sustainable
production of agricultural products. Determine the research needs of the area.
Establish and enhance the relationship with clients (internal and external)
stakeholders. Provide continuous support to ensure sustained production and
quality improvement. Render scientific and technical advice to internal and
external clients to ensure sustainable development. Conduct farmers’ days,
demonstrations, and information days to the farming communities. Conduct
situational analysis to identify the real needs and facilitate the implementation
of best practices and technology. Empower and build capacity of producers
and commodity groups to ensure self-reliance. Provide advice on various
subjects like crop production. Establish networks and linkages with all
stakeholders, keep relevant databases up to date, such as famers’ databases.
Compile and submit monthly and quarterly reports. Keep up to date regarding
applicable prescripts, policies, procedures, and advisory technology services.
Implement programmes such as CASP, Letsema, Land care.
ENQUIRIES : Vhembe District: Mammburu TD Tel No: (015) 963 2005 or Rathogwa MM Tel
No: (015) 963 2007
Waterberg District: Mr. Matjiu SK Tel No: (014) 717 4949 or Ms. Kekana RM
Tel No: (014) 717 1324
Mopani District: Ms. Malatji MA and Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 811 9837 or Tel
No: (015) 811 1189
Capricorn District: Ms. Sebatjane LD Tel No: (015) 632 8609 or Ms. Moeti M
Tel No: (015) 632 8619
41
POST 24/62 : AGRICULTURAL ADVISOR (X5 POSTS)
(Twelve months fixed term contract)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), (plus 37% in lieu benefits per annum)
CENTRE : Capricorn East Ref No: LDARD 43/6/2025) (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune West Ref No: LDARD 44/6/2025) (X1 Post)
Vhembe East Ref No: LDARD 45/6/2025) (X1 Post).
Waterberg East Ref No: LDARD 46/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Mopani East Ref No: LDARD 47/6/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF Level 8) postgraduate qualification in
Agriculture or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognised by
SAQA. No experience required. Compulsory registration with a South African
Council Natural Scientific Professions National professional body (SACNASP)
or other applicable and recognised statutory body is compulsory A valid driver’s
licence (with exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies
and Skills: Extensive knowledge of agricultural advisory. Knowledge of
production planning and management. Knowledge of Public Service
Legislation. IDPS, PGDS and CASP, extension norms and standards. Report
writing skills, Computer skills, Problem solving skills, Analytical skills, and
ability to communicate with stakeholders at all levels. Knowledge of new
agricultural technology and agricultural technical knowledge. Knowledge of
project monitoring and evaluation. Knowledge of planning and organising,
Facilitation skills. Networking skills and knowledge of other agricultural
programmes, e.g. CASP, Letsema, Extension Recovery Plan (ERP), Land care
and Fetsa Tlala. Language proficiency will be tested.
DUTIES : To promote sustainable development in the agricultural sector through the
application of the appropriate extension principles and methods. Provide
technical support for organised agriculture and other agricultural stakeholders
and assist in planning, advice, and aftercare support. Promote sustainable
production of agricultural products. Determine the research needs of the area.
Establish and enhance the relationship with clients (internal and external)
stakeholders. Provide continuous support to ensure sustained production and
quality improvement. Render scientific and technical advice to internal and
external clients to ensure sustainable development. Conduct farmers’ days,
demonstrations, and information days to the farming communities. Conduct
situational analysis to identify the real needs and facilitate the implementation
of best practices and technology. Empower and build capacity of producers
and commodity groups to ensure self-reliance. Provide advice on various
subjects like crop production. Establish networks and linkages with all
stakeholders, keep relevant databases up to date, such as famers’ databases.
Compile and submit monthly and quarterly reports. Keep up to date regarding
applicable prescripts, policies, procedures, and advisory technology services.
Implement programmes such as CASP, Letsema, Land care.
ENQUIRIES : Vhembe District: Mammburu TD Tel No: (015) 963 2005 or Rathogwa MM Tel
No: (015) 963 2007
Waterberg District: Mr. Matjiu SK Tel No: (014) 717 4949 or Ms. Kekana RM
Tel No: (014) 717 1324
Mopani District: Ms. Malatji MA and Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 811 9837 or Tel
No: (015) 811 1189
Sekhukhune District: Ms. Laka MA Tel No: (015) 632 7000 or Ms. Mphahlele
RS Tel No: (015) 632 7000
Capricorn District: Ms. Sebatjane LD Tel No: (015) 632 8609 or Ms. Moeti M
Tel No: (015) 632 8619
POST 24/63 : ANIMAL HEALTH TECHNICIAN (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Capricorn East Ref No: LDARD 48/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Capricorn North-Western Ref No: LDARD 49/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune West Ref No: LDARD 50/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Vhembe East Ref No: LDARD 51/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Vhembe Central Ref No: LDARD 52/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Waterberg East Ref No: LDARD 53/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Mopani East Ref No: LDARD 54/6/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF level 6) undergraduate qualification in
Animal Health or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognised by
SAQA. No experience required. Current registration with the South African
Veterinary Council as Animal Health Technician is compulsory. A valid driver’s
licence (with the exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge,
Competencies, And Skills: Excellent interpersonal, communication and
negotiation skills. Time management. Thorough knowledge of Animal
Diseases Act, 1984 (Act 35 of 1984). Thorough knowledge of Animal
Identification Act, 2002 (Act 6 of 2002). Knowledge of Meat Safety Act, 2000
42
(Act 40 of 2000). Thorough knowledge of specific diseases control
programmes and eradication schemes. Knowledge of the PFMA. Computer
proficiency. Report writing skills.
DUTIES : To render an Animal Health Regulatory Support Service in terms of the Animal
Health Diseases Act (Act 35/1984). Implement disease control measures.
Render a support service to the State Veterinarian regarding animal disease
control, reproduction and production advancement, sample collection and law
enforcement. Assist in the provision of extension services on animal health to
animal owners. Perform administrative and related functions, which would,
inter alia, entail populating databases and compile and submit monthly and
quarterly reports.
ENQUIRIES : Vhembe District: Mammburu TD Tel No: (015) 963 2005 or Rathogwa MM Tel
No: (015) 963 2007
Waterberg District: Mr. Matjiu SK Tel No: (014) 717 4949 or Ms. Kekana RM
Tel No: (014) 717 1324
Mopani District: Ms. Malatji MA, Matlou MT, Chaka NS and Hlungwani G Tel
No: (015) 811 9837 or (015) 811 1189
Sekhukhune District: Ms. Laka MA Tel No: (015) 632 7000 or Ms. Mphahlele
RS Tel No: (015) 632 7000
Capricorn District: Ms. Sebatjane LD Tel No: (015) 632 8609 or Ms. Moeti M
Tel No: (015) 632 8619
POST 24/64 : EXAMINATION OFFICER REF NO: LDARD 55/6/2025 (X1 POST)
(Twelve months fixed term contract)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Madzivhandila College
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF level 6) undergraduate qualification in
Public Administration or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of two (2) years appropriate experience. A
valid driver’s licence (with the exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge,
Competencies, and Skills: Planning & organising skills. Formal training and
presentation skills. Communication skills. Computer proficiency skills will be
tested.
DUTIES : Oversee all aspects of examinations management within the college.
Coordinate preparation of examination. Ensure current assessment
regulations and conventions are adhered to. Supplying all the necessary
stationery and materials related to exam. Prepare other necessary logistics for
smooth running of examination. Maintain confidential records in respect of all
aspects of the examination process.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/65 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCE SERVICES
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District Ref No: LDARD 56/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Capricorn District Ref No: LDARD 57/6/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF level 6) undergraduate qualification in
Human Resource Management/ Public Management/ Administration or
equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognized by SAQA. PERSAL
training certificates. A minimum of 2-3 years’ experience in Human Resource
Management environment. Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Knowledge
and understanding of Regulations, Acts, Policies and procedures governing
Public Service. Understanding of COIDA. Report writing skills. Facilitation
skills. Co-ordination skills. Liaison skills. Networking skills. Computer skills.
Good communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide human resource provisioning. Provide conditions of service. Provide
human resource planning. Supervise subordinates and utilize resources
(human and physical) in accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Laka MA Tel No: (015) 632 7000 or Ms. Mphahlele RS Tel No: (015) 632
7000
POST 24/66 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN & ASSET
MANAGEMENT REF NO: LDARD 58/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Capricorn District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF level 6) undergraduate qualification in
Logistics/ Public Management / Supply Chain Management or equivalent
appropriate tertiary qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of Two
43
(02) to Three (03) years’ experience in transport management, stores and
warehousing and Asset Management services. A valid driver’s licence (with the
exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills:
Excellent interpersonal, communication and negotiation skills. Time
management. Thorough knowledge of Treasury Regulation. Thorough
knowledge of PPPFMA. Knowledge of the PFMA. Computer proficiency.
Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Provide transport management services. Provide stores and warehousing
services. Provide Asset Management. Supervise subordinates and utilize
resources in accordance with relevant directives and legislations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Sebatjane LD Tel No: (015) 632 8609 or Ms. Moeti M Tel No: (015) 632
8619
POST 24/67 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: HR DEVELOPMENT AND
TRANSFORMATION
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mopani District Ref No: LDARD 59/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Capricorn District Ref No: LDARD 60/6/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF Level 6) undergraduate qualification in
Human Resource Development / Management /Public management,
Management of training, or equivalent tertiary qualification as recognized by
SAQA. A minimum of Two (02) to Three (03) years’ experience in HRD and
Transformation. Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Knowledge and
understanding of legislative, Acts and policies that govern Public Service. Job
Knowledge of relevant prescripts and applications of training, transformation
and PMDS. Computer skills. Planning and organization. Language. Good
verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide Human Resource Development. Provide Performance Management
Development System Services. Provide Service Delivery improvement
services, Provide employee health and wellness programmes. Supervise
subordinates and utilize resources in accordance with relevant directives and
legislations.
ENQUIRIES : Mopani District: Ms. Malatji MA and Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 811 9837 or (015)
811 1189.
Capricorn District: Ms. Sebatjane LD Tel No: (015) 632 8609 or Ms. Moeti M
Tel No: (015) 632 8619
POST 24/68 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT
SERVICES REF NO: LDARD 61/6/2025 (X1 POST)
Re-advertisement, those applied before need to re-apply.
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Towommba Research Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate undergraduate (NQF level 6) qualification in
National Diploma / Public Administration / Human Resource management /
Financial Management or equivalent tertiary qualification as recognized by
SAQA. A minimum Three (3) – Five (5) years’ experience in administration /
clerical. Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Knowledge of relevant
prescripts and applications of supply chain and assets management as well as
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
People Management. Financial Management. Problem Solving. Planning &
organizing. Time Management. Policy analysis. Good Communication skills.
Facilitation skills. Responsiveness. Pro-activeness. Professionalism.
Accuracy. Flexibility. Independent. Co-operative. Team player. Supportive.
Ability to work in a highly pressured environment.
DUTIES : To render administrative support services in the research centre. Render
financial administration services. Handle office support services. Handle
information management services. Render human resource management and
development services. Provide transformation services. Supervise
subordinates and utilise resources (human and physical) in accordance with
relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3387.
POST 24/69 : ARTISAN FOREMAN REF NO: LDARD 70/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R382 047 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Madzivhandila College
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate Trade Test Certificate (Plumbing). Five years
post qualification experience as an Artisan. A valid driver’s licence (with the
exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills:
44
Technical: Team leadership. Technical analysis knowledge. Computer-aided
Applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report. Writing.
Production, Process. knowledge and skills. Generic: Problem solving and
Analysis. Decision making. Teamwork. Analytical skills. Creativity. Self-
management. Customer focus and Responsiveness. Communication.
Computer skills. Planning and organizing. Conflict Management.
DUTIES : Perform and/or supervise technical design, production, operation and
maintenance services. Perform administrative and related function. Human
and Capital Resource Management. Maintain and advance expertise.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/70 : ARTISAN FOREMAN REF NO: LDARD 71/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R382 047 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Mopani District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate Trade Test Certificate (Electrical). Five years
post qualification experience as an Artisan. A valid driver’s licence (with the
exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills:
Technical: Team leadership. Technical analysis knowledge. Computer-aided
Applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report. Writing.
Production, Process. knowledge and skills. Generic: Problem solving and
Analysis. Decision making. Teamwork. Analytical skills. Creativity. Self-
management. Customer focus and Responsiveness. Communication.
Computer skills. Planning and organizing. Conflict Management.
DUTIES : Perform and/or supervise technical design, production, operation and
maintenance services. Perform administrative and related function. Human
and Capital Resource Management. Maintain and advance expertise.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Malatji MA and Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 811 9837 or Tel No: (015) (015)
811 1189
POST 24/71 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN AND ASSET
MANAGEMENT REF NO: LDARD 62/6/2025 (X1 POST)
Re-advertisement, those applied before need to re-apply.
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Capricorn District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification NQF level 6 in Public Management,
Transport Management, Logistics or equivalent appropriate tertiary
qualification as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years’ experience in
Transport Management. A valid driver’s licence (with exception of people with
disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies, And Skills: Supervisory skills, good
planning and organized skills. Good interpersonal relations and good
communication skills. Ability to work under pressure and prepared work after
hours when need arises, Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Conduct needs analysis for acquisition of GG and subsidized vehicles. Develop
and update the subsidized and GG vehicle registers. Facilitate maintenance of
vehicles. Conduct inspection of GG and subsidized vehicles. Issuing vehicles.
Licensing of GG vehicles.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sebatjane LD Tel No: (015) 632 8609, Mr. Masera TN Tel No: (015) 632
8625.
POST 24/72 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS REF NO: LDARD
63/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF Level 6) Undergraduate qualification in
Public Administration/ Management, Business Management/ Administration,
Labour Relations or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognised
by SAQA. A minimum of 1-2 years’ experience in administration / employee
relations field will be an added advantage. A valid driver’s licence (with the
exception of people with disabilities) will be and added advantage. Knowledge,
Competencies, and Skills: Knowledge and understanding of legislative
frameworks, policies, Acts and regulations that governs public service.
Knowledge of Labour relations policies, practices and procedures. Knowledge
of PERSAL will be an added advantage. Investigation skills. Communication
skills. Report writing skills. Problem analysis and analytical thinking.
Negotiation skills. Presentation skills. Computer literacy. Team player.
Professionalism. Innovation and creativity. Responsiveness. Flexible.
Punctuality. Honesty. Interpersonal relations.
45
DUTIES : Provide administrative support services to employee grievances. Render
administrative support services to employee misconduct cases. Provide labour
advisory services and information sharing to employees. Render general
administrative support services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/73 : AGRICULTURAL RESOURCE TECHNICIAN (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mopani East Ref No: LDARD 64/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Waterberg East Ref No: LDARD 65/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Capricorn North-Western Ref No: LDARD 66/6/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF level 6) undergraduate qualification in
Engineering or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognised by
SAQA. Compulsory registration with the Engineering Council of South Africa.
No experience required. A valid driver’s licence (with the exception of people
with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies, and Skills: Knowledge in
surveying and design of all engineering type of projects (contours, waterways,
stock watering systems, irrigation systems, subsurface draining systems, water
run off control, conservation farm planning and the design of farm animal
housing). Knowledge of spreadsheets, computerized and/or farm planning.
Good Labour relations. Good interpersonal skills. Capacity building within
communities. Determine the potential of soils for irrigation.
DUTIES : Provide technical services in respect of the optimal control, utilization and
conservation of agricultural natural resources regarding land care. Planning
and design of conservation structures in compliance with environmental and
conservation legislation. Implementation of projects (including inter alia
projects funded by Land Care and CASP). Execute the prescribed
administration of financial aid schemes (e.g. the soil conservation subsidy
scheme) regarding the conservation of natural resources and the
implementation of norms and standards as prescribed by the National
Department of Agriculture. Provide extension services on land care. Keep up
to date regarding the applicable prescripts, policies, procedures, technologies
and new developments to be able to render an efficient and effective technical
service. Perform administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mopani District: Ms. Malatji MA and Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 811 9837 or Tel
No: (015) 811 1189
Waterberg District: Mr. Matjiu SK Tel No: (014) 717 4949 or Ms. Kekana RM
Tel No: (014) 717 1324.
Capricorn District: Ms. Sebatjane LD Tel No: (015) 632 8609 or Ms. Moeti M
Tel No: (015) 632 8619
POST 24/74 : LABORATORY TECHNICIAN REF NO: LDARD 67/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Tompi Seleka College
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF level 6) undergraduate qualification or
equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognised by SAQA. A valid
driver’s licence (with the exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge,
Competencies, and Skills: Excellent interpersonal, communication and
negotiation skills. Time management. Report writing skills. Computer skills.
Analytical Skills. Attention to details.
DUTIES : Render an analytical laboratory service. Analyze samples (soil, feed, plant,
water). Assist with the development of new analytical procedures. Perform all
administrative and related functions. Keep up to date with regard to the
applicable prescripts, policies, procedures, technologies and new
developments to be able to render an efficient and effective service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/75 : LABORATORY TECHNICIAN: WET AND PHYSICAL REF NO: LDARD
68/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Madzivhandila College
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF level 6) undergraduate qualification or
equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognised by SAQA. A valid
driver’s licence (with exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge,
Competencies, and Skills: Excellent interpersonal, communication and
46
negotiation skills. Time management. Report writing skills. Computer skills.
Analytical Skills. Attention to details.
DUTIES : Render an analytical laboratory service. Analyze samples (soil, feed, plant,
water). Assist with the development of new analytical procedures. Perform all
administrative and related functions. Keep up to date with regard to the
applicable prescripts, policies, procedures, technologies and new
developments to be able to render an efficient and effective service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/76 : LABORATORY ANALYST REF NO: LDARD 69/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Tompi Seleka College
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF level 6) Undergraduate qualification in
Analytical Chemistry or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as
recognised by SAQA. Two (2) years post qualification relevant work experience
in an analytical laboratory. Current Compulsory registration with SACNASP as
a Candidate Certificated Natural Scientist is compulsory. A valid driver’s
licence (with the exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge,
Competencies, and Skills: Good laboratory practice; Strong analytical skills for
interpreting data and drawing accurate conclusions, excellent interpersonal,
communication and negotiation skills, time management, report writing skills.
computer skills, laboratory analytical skills. Ability to handle biological,
chemical, or physical samples with precision.
DUTIES : Perform precise sample preparation for chemical analysis, ensuring adherence
to established protocols to maintain sample integrity. Operate and maintain a
variety of laboratory instruments such as spectrophotometers, gas
chromatographs, and pH meters, including calibration and troubleshooting.
Execute quantitative and qualitative analysis of samples to detect and measure
chemical compounds, interpreting results using specialized software.
Implement quality control procedures to ensure accuracy and reliability of
laboratory tests, including the preparation of standard and reagent solutions.
Record and report data from all analyses and experiments in a clear, concise
manner, ensuring compliance with laboratory and regulatory standards.
Collaborate with cross-functional teams to develop and refine analytical
methods, improving efficiency and effectiveness of laboratory operations.
Manage the inventory of laboratory supplies and chemicals, ensuring all
materials are available and in compliance with safety standards. Conduct
environmental monitoring and testing in accordance with regulatory
requirements, including the collection and analysis of air, water, and soil
samples.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/77 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK: HR PROVISIONING AND UTILIZATION REF
NO: LDARD 72/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or an equivalent appropriate (NQF Level 4) qualification as
recognized by SAQA. Knowledge, Competencies, and Skills: Knowledge of
clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer
and collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in
terms of the working environment. Report writing skills. Communication skills.
DUTIES : Render Human Resource Clerical Services. Handle advertisement of posts,
Shortlisting and Interviews. Attend to Transfers, Translations, Secondments
and Debt Recoveries. Handle Probationary Appointments of Employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/78 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: STORES (SUPPLY CHAIN AND ASSET
MANAGEMENT) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Capricorn District Ref No: LDARD 73/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Waterberg District Ref No: LDARD 74/6/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or an equivalent appropriate (NQF Level 4) qualification as
recognized by SAQA. Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Basic knowledge
47
of Supply Chain Duties, Practices as well as the ability to capture data. Operate
Computer and collect statistics. Basic Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Basic knowledge of work
procedures in terms of the working environment. Job Knowledge. Computer
skills. Communication skills. Planning and Organization. Interpersonal
Relations skills. Flexibility Good verbal and written. Teamwork. Problem-
solving skills. Customer service skills. Knowledge of the PFMA. Knowledge of
Batho Pele Principles.
DUTIES : Administer inventory database. Administer capturing of order on Logis System.
Receive and issue inventory. Maintain inventory register. Render inventory
management clerical services. Control stores and warehouse. Render
stocktaking.
ENQUIRIES : Capricorn District: Ms. Sebatjane LD Tel No: (015) 632 8609 or Ms. Moeti M
Tel No: (015) 632 8619
Waterberg District: Mr. Matjiu SK Tel No: (014) 717 4949 or Ms. Kekana RM
Tel No: (014) 717 1324
POST 24/79 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN AND ASSET MANAGEMENT (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Capricorn District Ref No: LDARD 75/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Vhembe District Ref No: LDARD 76/6/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or an equivalent appropriate (NQF Level 4) qualification as
recognized by SAQA. Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Basic knowledge
of supply chain duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate
computer and collecting statistics. Basic knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Basic knowledge of work
procedures in terms of the working environment. Job Knowledge. Computer
Skills. Communication Planning and organisation. Interpersonal relations
Language. Flexibility Good verbal and written. Communication skills.
Teamwork.
DUTIES : To render supply chain management (SCM) clerical services. Render asset
management clerical support. Render demand and acquisition clerical support.
Render logistical support services.
ENQUIRIES : Capricorn District: Ms. Sebatjane LD Tel No: (015) 632 8609 or Ms. Moeti M
Tel No: (015) 632 8619
Vhembe District: Mammburu TD Tel No: (015) 963 2005 or Rathogwa MM Tel
No: (015) 963 2007.
POST 24/80 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK: PURCHASING MANAGEMENT REF NO: LDARD
77/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or an equivalent appropriate (NQF Level 4) qualification as
recognized by SAQA. Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Basic knowledge
of supply chain duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate
computer and collecting statistics. Basic knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Basic knowledge of work
procedures in terms of the working environment. Finest, Bas, PFMA, Dora,
Treasury Regulation policies Job Knowledge. Communication Skills.
Presentation Skills. Financial Management Skills. Time Management.
Computer Skills.
DUTIES : Render supply chain management clerical support. Render purchasing clerical
support. Render logistical support services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/81 : SECRETARY: AGRICULTURAL TRAINING SERVICES REF NO: LDARD
78/6/2025 (X1 POST)
(Twelve months fixed term contract)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate with typing as a subject or an equivalent appropriate (NQF
Level 4) qualification as recognized by SAQA. Knowledge, Competencies, And
Skills: Basic knowledge of Clerical administrative work. Language skills and
the ability to communicate well with people at different levels and from different
backgrounds. Good telephone etiquette. Computer literacy. Sound
organisational skills. Good people skills. High level of reliability. Basic written
48
communication skills. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Good grooming and
presentation.
DUTIES : To render a secretarial support service to the Director: Agricultural Training
Services. Provides a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Director:
Agricultural Training Services. Provides a clerical support service to the office
of the Director: Agricultural Training Services. Remains up to date with regard
to prescripts/policies and procedures applicable to her/his work terrain to
ensure efficient and effective support to the office of the Director: Agricultural
Training Services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/82 : REGISTRY CLERK: GENERAL RECORDS REF NO: LDARD 79/6/2025 (X1
POST)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or an equivalent appropriate (NQF Level 4) qualification as
recognized by SAQA. Knowledge, Competencies and Skill: Knowledge of
registry duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, and operate
computer. Working knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures
in terms of the working environment. Understanding of the work in registry. Job
Knowledge. Communication. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Teamwork.
Computer. Planning and organisation. Language. Good verbal and written
communication skill.
DUTIES : Provide registry services. Provide registry counter services. Handle incoming
and outgoing correspondence. Render an effective filing and record
management service. Operate office machines in relation to the registry
function. Process documents for archiving and/ disposal.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/83 : REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: LDARD 80/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Waterberg District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or an equivalent appropriate (NQF Level 4) qualification as
recognized by SAQA. Knowledge, Competencies and Skill: Knowledge of
registry duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, and operate
computer. Working knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures
in terms of the working environment. Understanding of the work in registry. Job
Knowledge. Communication. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Teamwork.
Computer. Planning and organisation. Language. Good verbal and written
communication skill.
DUTIES : Provide registry services. Provide registry counter services. Handle incoming
and outgoing correspondence. Render an effective filing and record
management service. Operate office machines in relation to the registry
function. Process documents for archiving and/ disposal.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Matjiu SK Tel No: (014) 717 4949 or Ms. Kekana RM Tel No: (014) 717
1324
POST 24/84 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Capricorn East Ref No: LDARD 81/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Vhembe Central Ref No: LDARD 82/6/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or an equivalent appropriate (NQF Level 4) qualification as
recognized by SAQA. Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Knowledge of
clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer
and collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in
terms of the working environment. Good verbal and written communication
skills. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Teamwork. Computer literacy.
Planning and organization.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Provide supply chain clerical support
services. Provide personnel administration clerical support services. Provide
financial administration support services. Provide transport support services.
49
ENQUIRIES : Capricorn District: Ms. Sebatjane LD Tel No: (015) 632 8609 or Ms. Moeti M
Tel No: (015) 632 8619
Vhembe District: Mammburu TD Tel No: (015) 963 2005 or Rathogwa MM Tel
No: (015) 963 2007.
POST 24/85 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: STUDENT ADMINISTRATION REF NO: LDARD
83/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Tompi Seleka College
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or an equivalent appropriate (NQF Level 4) qualification as
recognized by SAQA. Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Knowledge of
clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer
and collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in
terms of the working environment. Job Knowledge. Communication.
Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Teamwork. Computer. Planning and
organisation. Language. Good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Render administrative support services. Render general clerical support
services. Administer Student bursaries. Administer student records. Provision
of student catering and housing.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/86 : TRANSPORT CLERK: TRANSPORT (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane Ref No: LDARD 84/6/2025 (X2 Posts)
Capricorn District Ref No: LDARD 85/6/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or an equivalent appropriate (NQF Level 4) qualification as
recognized by SAQA. A valid driver’s license (with the exception of people with
disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Knowledge of clerical
duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and
collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the
working environment. Computer literate. Planning and organisation. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Team player. Responsiveness.
Professionalism. Supportive. Pro-activeness. Willing to work under pressure.
Flexibility.
DUTIES : Render Fleet Management Services. Allocation of government vehicles (GG).
Process applications for vehicles, (GG and subsidized schemes). Conduct
inspection. Facilitate payments of log-sheets for GG and subsidized vehicles.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Polokwane: Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene
PV Tel No: (015) 294 3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms.
Kgobe MA Tel No: (015) 294 3347.
Capricorn District: Ms. Sebatjane LD Tel No: (015) 632 8609 or Ms. Moeti M
Tel No: (015) 632 8619
POST 24/87 : HR CLERK: PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION REF NO: LDARD 86/6/2025
(X1 POST)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Tompi Seleka College
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or an equivalent appropriate (NQF Level 4) qualification as
recognized by SAQA. Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Knowledge of
Human Resource policies and legislation. Report writing. Good communication
skills (verbal and written). Computer literacy (MS Office). Good organizing
skills. Accuracy and attention to details.
DUTIES : Provide human resources provisioning and utilization services. Recruit
personnel and handle placements. Facilitate transfers and translations.
Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the
component. Implement conditions of services (Leave, Housing, Medical, Injury
on Duty, Long Service Recognition, Overtime and Termination of service).
Performance Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/88 : HR CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE SERVICES REF NO: LDARD 87/6/2025
(X1 POST)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
50
CENTRE : Mopani District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or an equivalent appropriate (NQF Level 4) qualification as
recognized by SAQA. Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Knowledge of
Human Resource policies and legislation. Report writing. Good communication
skills (verbal and written). Computer literacy (MS Office). Good organizing
skills. Accuracy and attention to details.
DUTIES : Provide human resources provisioning and utilization services. Recruit
personnel and handle placements. Facilitate transfers and translations.
Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the
component. Implement conditions of services (Leave, Housing, Medical, Injury
on Duty, Long Service Recognition, Overtime and Termination of service).
Performance Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Malatji MA, Matlou MT, Chaka NS and Hlungwani G Tel No: (015) 811
9837 or Tel No: (015) 811 1189.
POST 24/89 : DRIVER/MESSENGER (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Vhembe District Ref No: LDARD 88/6/2025 (X2 Posts)
Waterberg East Ref No: LDARD 89/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune South Central Ref No: LDARD 90/6/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or equivalent appropriate qualification as recognised by SAQA.
Seven (7) -12 months driving experience. A valid driver’s license as well as a
PrDP (Goods and Passengers). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills:
Knowledge of the procedures to operate the motor vehicle. Knowledge of
prescripts for the correct utilization of motor vehicles. Knowledge of the
procedures to ensure that the motor vehicle is maintained properly. Knowledge
of the procedures to perform messenger functions and routine office support
functions like registry services and making of photocopies. Knowledge of the
city (ies) / district in which the functions will be performed.
DUTIES : Drive light and medium motor vehicles to transport passengers and deliver
other items (mail and documents). Perform routine maintenance on the
allocated vehicle and report defects timely. Complete all the required and
prescribed records and logs-books with regard to the vehicle and the goods
handled. Render a clerical support/messenger service in the relevant office.
ENQUIRIES : Sekhukhune District: Ms. Laka MA Tel No: (015) 632 7000 or Ms. Mphahlele
RS Tel No: (015) 632 7000
Vhembe District: Mammburu TD Tel No: (015) 963 2005 or Rathogwa MM Tel
No: (015) 963 2007
Waterberg District: Mr. Matjiu SK Tel No: (014) 717 4949 or Ms. Kekana RM
Tel No: (014) 717 1324
POST 24/90 : LABORATORY ASSISTANT (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Mokopane Laboratory Ref No: LDARD 91/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Makhado Laboratory Ref No: LDARD 92/6/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with maths and science or an equivalent (NQF Level 4) qualification
with the same subjects as recognized by SAQA. Knowledge, Competencies
and Skills: Ability to read and write. Interpersonal skills, communication skills,
Time management, conflict management. Ability to analyze data.
DUTIES : Render a support service to Technicians in the preparation of laboratory tests
for analyses. Prepare samples for the determination of i.e. chemical residues,
pH, EC, mycology etc. Perform routine analysis of samples under
mentorship/supervision of senior personnel. Perform basic maintenance on
selected equipment and instrumentation. Report all faulty equipment and
instrumentation. Maintain tidiness of laboratories, clean/sterilize glassware and
equipment. Perform basic maintenance and control functions of animal
production stock. Perform administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/91 : AUXILIARY SERVICES OFFICER REF NO: LDARD 93/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Tompi Seleka College
REQUIREMENTS : Basic literacy and numeracy (ABET level 3) or equivalent appropriate
qualification as recognised by SAQA. A valid driver’s license (with the
exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills:
Basic numeracy skills, literacy, operating farm equipment skills. Ability of
mixing and applying dip, Ability to handle Livestock. Ability to read and write.
51
DUTIES : Assist with the execution of routine activities in respect of livestock. Assist with
the execution of general farm routine activities. Assist with provision of water
supply for livestock and caring for equipment’s. Assist with the execution of
routine activities in respect of farm infrastructure. Perform all administrative and
related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/92 : ANIMAL HEALTH ASSISTANT (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Mopani East Ref No: LDARD 94/6/2025 (X2 Posts)
Vhembe West Ref No: LDARD 95/6/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent appropriate (NQF Level 4) qualification as recognized
by SAQA. A valid driver’s license (with the exception of people with disabilities).
Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Good communication skills. Ability of
mixing dip stuff, cleaning and re-assemble syringes, handling of veterinary
tools and equipment. Experience in handling of cattle, small stock and poultry.
Ability to read and write. Interpersonal, communication, evaluation persuasion,
time management, conflict management.
DUTIES : Assist to implement disease control measures. Assist to improve animal health
through biosecurity, vaccination and surveillance for disease and treatment of
animals. Assist in collecting specimen, examination and dispatch samples of
animal diseases. Assist in the provision of extension services on animal health
to animal owners.
ENQUIRIES : Mopani District: Ms. Malatji MA and Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 811 9837 or Tel
No: (015) (015) 811 1189
Vhembe District: Mammburu TD Tel No: (015) 963 2005 or Rathogwa MM Tel
No: (015) 963 2007.
POST 24/93 : DRIVER OPERATOR (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Towoomba Research Centre Ref No: LDARD 96/6/2025 (X1 Post)
: Mara Research Centre Ref No: LDARD 97/6/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or equivalent appropriate qualification as recognised by SAQA. A
valid driver’s license as well as a PrDP (Goods and Passengers) and an
operating certificate. A minimum of Five (5) years’ driving and operating
specialized equipment experience. Knowledge, Competencies, And Skills:
Knowledge of driving and operating specialized equipment. Communication
Skills. Ability to operate the equipment. Ability to read and write. Good eyesight.
Teamwork. Physical inspection of vehicles and interpret instructions for proper
use of all controls for safe operation of vehicles. Interpret and follow operating
manuals, maintenance manuals and service charts.
DUTIES : Operate specialized equipment. Load and offload goods/equipment. Inspection
and maintenance of equipment and report defects. Keep log sheets of vehicles
and machinery. Application of safety and precautionary measures. Cleaning
and lubrication of machinery equipment. Grading of gravel roads and re-
ravelling/shoulder maintenance. Render driving services. Transportation of
work teams and materials/equipments. Detect and repair minor mechanical
problems on the vehicles and take steps to have it repaired (check level and
condition of oil, fuel, tyres and water). Inspection of the vehicles/equipment and
report defects. Complete vehicle logbook, trip authorization for the vehicle.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/94 : LIBRARY ASSISTANT REF NO: LDARD 98/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Tompi Seleka College
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or an equivalent appropriate (NQF Level 4) qualification as
recognised by SAQA. Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Knowledge of
Library and information science matters; Prescripts and legislation; Procedures
and processes; Departmental financial manuals; Public Finance Management
Act and Departmental policy and strategy. Skills and attributes: Organising,
Problem solving, Customer care, Good interpersonal relations, Creative
thinking, Computer literacy e.g Microsoft Office and internet, Numeracy, Ability
to work under pressure, Language proficiency, Communication and Analytic
thinking.
52
DUTIES : Handle the library administrative and support services and information
services. Maintain the library collection. Handle administrative support
services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Modiba MM (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015)294 3395, Ms.
Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015) 294 3587.
POST 24/95 : WATER PUMP OPERATOR REF NO: LDARD 99/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Madzivhandila College
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 09/ABET level 4 or equivalent appropriate qualification as recognised
by SAQA. Knowledge, Competencies, And Skills: Ability to work with engine
pump. Knowledge of Operation of water pump. Assistance of general farm aid
duties.
DUTIES : Perform routine duties in respect of crop production. Perform general routine
activities. Perform general routine activities in respect of infrastructure.
Operating water pump engine.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/96 : HANDYMAN (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Waterberg District Ref No: LDARD 100/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Mopani District Ref No: LDARD 101/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Tompi Seleka College Ref No: LDARD 102/6/2025 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 09/ABET Level 04 or equivalent appropriate qualification as recognised
by SAQA. Knowledge, Competencies, And Skills: Knowledge of maintenance
tools and equipment. Safety regulations. Communication skills. Good
interpersonal relation and knowledge of Batho Pele Principles. Buildings and
related farm infrastructure maintenance experience and knowledge of various
types of farm infrastructure and maintenance tools will be an added advantage.
Driver`s licence will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Maintenance of office buildings and furniture. Maintenance of office
equipments.
ENQUIRIES : Mopani District: Ms. Malatji MA, Matlou MT, Chaka NS and Hlungwani G Tel
No: (015) 811 9837 or Tel No: (015) 811 1189
Waterberg District: Mr. Matjiu SK Tel No: (014) 717 4949 or Ms. Kekana RM
Tel No: (014) 717 1324
Tompi Seleka College: Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene
PV Tel No: (015) 294 3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms.
Kgobe MA Tel No: (015) 294 3347.
POST 24/97 : TRACTOR DRIVER (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Towoomba Research Centre Ref No: LDARD 103/6/2025 (X2 Posts)
Mara Research Centre Ref No: LDARD 104/6/2025 (X1 Post) (Re-
advertisement, those applied before need to re-apply)
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 2 or equivalent appropriate qualification as recognised by SAQA.
A valid driver’s License (Code EC1) with PrDP. A minimum of 01-year
appropriate experience. Knowledge, Competencies, And Skills: Knowledge of
Agricultural Equipment. Ability to Operate the Tractor. Basic diesel mechanic
skills. Water/Diesel Engine maintenance skills. Knowledge of various types of
farm equipment. Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles. Discing, planting, and
harvesting of crop fields. Driving skills.
DUTIES : Loading, transportation and offloading of goods. Refuse removal within the
farm. Operation and maintenance of farm machinery, farm equipment,
research trails, firebreaks, and access roads. Maintenance of farm
infrastructure. Routine inspection on water reservoirs and livestock drinking
troughs on farm. Perform routine activities in respect of livestock and general
farm activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/98 : FARM AID (X11 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Tompi Seleka College Ref No: LDARD 105/6/2025 (X3 Posts)
Madzivhandila College Ref No: LDARD 106/6/2025 (X2 Posts)
Mara Research Centre Ref No: LDARD 107/6/2025 (X2 Posts)
53
Towoomba Research Centre Ref No: LDARD 108/6/2025 (X3 Posts)
Haartebees Ref No: LDARD 109/6/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 2 or equivalent appropriate qualification as recognised by SAQA.
Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Basic literacy and numeracy. Able to
read and write. Communication skills. Good interpersonal relation and
knowledge of Batho Pele Principles. Knowledge of various types of farm
activities will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Perform routine activities in respect of crop production. Perform routine
activities in respect of livestock. Perform general routine activities. Perform
general routine activities in respect of infrastructure.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/99 : GENERAL WORKER (REDLINE GATE/GUARD/FENCE PATROLER (X17
POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Vhembe Far North Ref No: LDARD 110/6/2025 (X8 Posts)
Vhembe Central Ref No: LDARD 111/6/2025 (X5 Posts)
Vhembe East Ref No: LDARD 112/6/2025 (X3 Posts)
Mopani North Ref No: LDARD 113/6/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 2 or equivalent appropriate qualification as recognized by SAQA.
No experience required. Knowledge, Competencies, And Skills: Basic literacy
and numeracy. Able to read and write. Knowledge of security services.
Communication Skills. Good interpersonal relations. Report writing.
DUTIES : To perform routine manual farming activities. Control over Movement of cloven
hooved animals. Stop, register, and search vehicle from the redline area.
Check meat, dairy product, dung, grass, hides, skins, etc. Confiscate all
product listed in (ii) above. Open and close the gate. Report confiscated
products to the supervisor for further attention. Conduct fence patrol. Routine
check of the redline fence. Repair of fence breakage. Trace animal track along
the redline fence. Clear bushes along the redline fence. Control over
quarantined animals. Check permit for animal quarantined. Liaise with the
Animal Health Technician for inspection. Keep records. Keep permits register.
Keep register for quarantined animals. Keep register for vehicle movement.
ENQUIRIES : Vhembe District: Mammburu TD Tel No: (015) 963 2005 or Rathogwa MM Tel
No: (015) 963 2007.
Mopani District: Ms. Malatji MA, Matlou MT, Chaka NS and Hlungwani G Tel
No: (015) 811 9837 or Tel No: (015) 811 1189
POST 24/100 : GROUNDSMAN: FARM MANAGEMENT REF NO: LDARD 114/6/2025 (X1
POST)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Towoomba Research Centre
REQUIREMENTS : ABET Level 2 or equivalent appropriate qualification as recognised by SAQA.
No experience required. Knowledge, Competencies, And Skills: Able to read
and write; Knowledge of cleaning services; Communication skills; Good
interpersonal relations; Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Cleaning of yard. Sweeping. Removing unwanted weeds and shrubs.
Removing weeds and papers. Pruning of trees and flowers. Watering of flowers
and trees and decoration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/101 : GENERAL WORKER (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE Waterberg North Ref No: LDARD 115/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune South Central Ref No: LDARD 116/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Waterberg South Central Ref No: LDARD 117/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Waterberg North Ref No: LDARD 118/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Vhembe East Ref No: LDARD 119/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Mopani District Ref No: LDARD 120/6/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 2 or equivalent appropriate qualification as recognised by SAQA.
Knowledge, Competencies, And Skills: Basic literacy and numeracy. Able to
read and write. Knowledge of cleaning procedures and gardening principles.
Ability to operate basic garden equipment and machinery. Knowledge of
maintenance of relevant equipment. Good interpersonal relations Be able to
work in a team. Be able to perform manual work. Show commitment and
54
loyalty. Must be punctual, productive and show good behaviour towards
customers Communication skills.
DUTIES : Perform general assistant work. Maintain premises and surroundings.
Maintenance and safekeeping of gardening equipment. Moving furniture and
equipment as required. Removing garbage and empty boxes. Assist in
receiving stock and goods. Reporting losses/damage to equipment. Loading
and offloading of goods.
ENQUIRIES : Vhembe District: Mammburu TD Tel No: (015) 963 2005 or Rathogwa MM Tel
No: (015) 963 2007
Waterberg District: Mr. Matjiu SK Tel No: (014) 717 4949 or Ms. Kekana RM
Tel No: (014) 717 1324
Sekhukhune District: Ms. Laka MA Tel No: (015) 632 7000 or Ms. Mphahlele
RS Tel No: (015) 632 7000
Mopani District: Ms. Malatji MA, Matlou MT, Chaka NS and Hlungwani G Tel
No: (015) 811 9837 or Tel No: (015) 811 1189
POST 24/102 : CLEANER (X11 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Waterberg District Ref No: LDARD 121/6/2025 (X2 Posts)
Vhembe East Ref No: LDARD 122/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Vhembe District Ref No: LDARD 123/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Vhembe Far North Ref No: LDARD 124/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Waterberg South Central Ref No: LDARD 125/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Capricorn Northwestern Ref No: LDARD 126/6/2025 (01 Post)
Mopani District Ref No: LDARD 127/6/2025 (X2 Posts)
Mopani East Ref No: LDARD 128/6/2025 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District Ref No: LDARD 129/6/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or equivalent appropriate qualification as recognised by SAQA.
Knowledge, Competencies, And Skills: Basic literacy and numeracy. Able to
read and write. Communication skills. Good interpersonal relations and
knowledge of Batho Pele Principles. Knowledge of cleaning products/materials
and equipment. Knowledge of operating cleaning equipment. Good
interpersonal skills. Ability to work under pressure. Teamwork. Client focus and
responsiveness. Be able to perform manual work. Show commitment and
loyalty. Must be punctual, productive and show good behaviour towards
customers. Knowledge of Batho Pele Principle. Health and safety measures.
Working procedures in respect of working environment.
DUTIES : Cleaning of offices, storerooms, corridors, elevators, and boardrooms. Dust
and take out waste and provide water during meetings. Refill aqua cooler/s
washing walls and windows. Cleaning equipment and machinery. Cleaning
windows and all general kitchen utensils. Scrubbing toilets and polishing office
floors. Vacuum cleaning using vacuum machine. Provide toilet paper in the
toilets. Keep and maintain cleaning materials and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Vhembe District: Mammburu TD Tel No: (015) 963 2005 or Rathogwa MM Tel
No: (015) 963 2007
Waterberg District: Mr. Matjiu SK Tel No: (014) 717 4949 or Ms. Kekana RM
Tel No: (014) 717 1324
Capricorn District: Ms. Sebatjane LD Tel No: (015) 632 8609 or Ms. Moeti M
Tel No: (015) 632 8619
Mopani District: Ms. Malatji MA, Matlou MT, Chaka NS and Hlungwani G Tel
No: (015) 811 9837 or Tel No: (015) (015) 811 1189
Sekhukhune District: Ms. Laka MA Tel No: (015) 632 7000 or Ms. Mphahlele
RS Tel No: (015) 632 7000
55
ANNEXURE K
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, LAND & ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting relevant reference number should either be hand
delivered, posted or e-mailed to the following addresses:
Head Office: to the Director: Human Resource Management & Development,
Samora Machel Building, Private Bag X11219, Riverside Park, Mbombela,
(1200) or Email: dardlearecruitment-ho@mpg.gov.za
Ehlanzeni District Office: To the District Director, Block 4, Aqua Street, PO
Box 266, Riverside Park, Mbombela, (1200) or Email: dardlearecruitment-
ehls@mpg.gov.za
Bohlabela District Office: to the District Director, 101 Main Road, Private Bag
X1321, Thulamahashe, (1365) or Email: dardlearecruitment-
ehln@mpg.gov.za
Gert Sibande District Office: The District Director, 44 Church Street, Private
Bag X9071, Ermelo (2350) or Email: dardlearecruitment-gs@mpg.gov.za
Nkangala District Office: to the District Director, Ebhudlweni Building,
Government Complex, Private Bag X 4017, KwaMhlanga (1022) or Email:
dardlearecruitment-nka@mpg.gov.za. Please ensure that you email your
application to the relevant email.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : Applications must include only fully completed and signed new Z83 form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA web site link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ and a comprehensive Curriculum
Vitae. All required information on the Z83 form must be provided. If more than
one position is applied for, a separate application for each post should be
completed. Failure to complete/disclose all required information in the
application will automatically disqualify the applicant. Certified copies of Identity
Document, qualifications and related documents need not to accompany the
application, instead they will be submitted only by shortlisted candidates to
Human Resources on the day of the interview. Due to the large number of
applications anticipated, correspondence will only be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. Should you not be contacted within 3 months of the closing
date of the advertisement, please consider your application to be unsuccessful.
Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for interviews at a date
and time to be determined by the Department. All shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks, criminal
checks, credit and social media). Applicants must declare any pending
criminal, or any other allegations or investigations against them. Should this be
uncovered during / after the interview took place, the application will not be
considered and in the unlikely event that the person has been appointed such
appointment will be terminated. The successful candidate will be appointed
subject to positive results of the vetting process. The successful candidate will
be required to enter into an employment contract with the Department. The
Department reserves the right not to fill a position. Important: No Payment of
any kind is required when applying for these positions.
24 MONTHS INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: (2025 TO 2027)
The Department of Agriculture, Rural Development, Land and Environmental Affairs invites unemployed
South African graduates to apply for the 24 months Internship Programme. Applicants must not have
participated in an internship programme previously (subject to verification). It is the Department’s
intention to promote presentively (race, gender and disability). Persons with disabilities are therefore
encouraged to apply.
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/103 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: STRUCTURED AGRICULTURAL TRAINING
(X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala (Animal Production) Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/01
Gert Sibande (Crop Production) Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/02
Ehlanzeni (Crop Production) Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/03
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Science Degree in Crop & Animal Production or Equivalent
ENQUIRIES : For Ehlanzeni District: Ms. Mh Sekoma Tel No: (013) 759 4000
For Nkangala District: Dr. Bm Mahlangu at 071 499 4823
For Gert Sibande District: Mr. RS Mhlongo Tel No: (017) 819 2076
56
POST 24/104 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: AGRI-BUSINESS REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/07/04 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office- Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor Of Science Degree in Agricultural Economics or Equivalent
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. Ne Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Mr. XJ Mubi Tel No: (013) 766 6112
POST 24/105 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/07/05 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande- Ermelo
REQUIREMENTS : Degree In Environmental Management or Natural Sciences
ENQUIRIES : Mr. RS Mhlongo Tel No: (017) 819 2076
POST 24/106 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District-CYCAD Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/06 (X1 Post)
: Nkangala District- Kwamhlanga Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/07 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Degree In Environmental Management or Natural Sciences
ENQUIRIES : For Ehlanzeni District: Ms. Mh Sekoma Tel No: (013) 759 4000
For Nkangala District: Dr. Bm Mahlangu at 071 499 4823
POST 24/107 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: POLLUTION AND WASTE MANAGEMENT (X3
POSTS)
SALARY : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District-Ermelo Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/08 (X1 Post)
: Ehlanzeni District- CYCAD Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/09 (X1 Post)
: Nkangala District- Kwamhlanga Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/10 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Degree In Environmental Management or Natural Sciences
ENQUIRIES : For Ehlanzeni District: Ms. Mh Sekoma Tel No: (013) 759 4000
For Nkangala District: Dr. Bm Mahlangu at 071 499 4823
For Gert Sibande District Mr. RS Mhlongo Tel No: (017) 819 2076
POST 24/108 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/07/11 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office- Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelors Degree/ National Diploma in Risk Management Accounting, Internal
Audit, Public Finance and Public Administration
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. Ne Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Mr. XJ Mubi Tel No: (013) 766 6112
POST 24/109 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: GOVERNMENT TECHNOLOGY
INFORMATION SERVICES (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office - Mbombela Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/12 (X2 Posts)
Nkangala District Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/13 (X2 Posts)
Gert Sibande District- Ermelo Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/14 (X1 Post)
Ehlanzeni District -CYCAD Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/15 (X1 Post)
Bohlabela District-Thulamahashe Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/16 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Degree In Computer Science /Diploma Information Technology or Relevant
Postgraduate With A+, N+ AND MCSA.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013)766 6003 or Ms. Ne Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Mr. XJ Mubi Tel No: (013) 766 6112
For Ehlanzeni District: Ms. Mh Sekoma Tel No: (013) 759 4000
For Nkangala District: Dr. Bm Mahlangu at 071 499 4823
For Gert Sibande District: Mr. Rs Mhlongo Tel No: (017) 819 2076
For Bohlabela District: Ms. OS Ndhlovu at 076 461 4054
POST 24/110 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DARDLEA/2025/07/17 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office- Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Degree/ National Diploma in HRM, Public Management, Administration.
57
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. Ne Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Mr. XJ Mubi Tel No: (013) 766 6112
POST 24/111 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office- Mbombela Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/18 (X2 Posts)
Ehlanzeni District- CYCAD Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/19 (X1 Post)
Gert Sibande- Ermelo Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/20 (X1 Post)
Nkangala - Kwamhlanga Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/21 (X1 Post)
Bohlabela- Thulamahashe Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/22 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in Financial Accounting, Cost & Management
Accounting/Finance Related Field.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. Ne Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Mr. XJ Mubi Tel No: (013) 766 6112
For Ehlanzeni District: Ms. Mh Sekoma Tel No: (013) 759 4000
For Nkangala District: Dr. Bm Mahlangu at: 071 499 4823
For Gert Sibande District: Mr. Rs Mhlongo Tel No: (017) 819 2076
For Bohlabela District: Ms. OS Ndhlovu at 076 461 4054
POST 24/112 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE Head Office- Mbombela Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/23 (X2 Posts)
Ehlanzeni District- CYCAD Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/24 (X1 Post)
Gert Sibande- Ermelo Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/25 (X1 Post)
Nkangala - Kwamhlanga Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/26 (X1 Post)
Bohlabela- Thulamahashe Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/27 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in Financial Accounting, Cost & Management
Accounting/Finance Related Field
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Mr. XJ Mubi Tel No: (013) 766 6112
For Ehlanzeni District: Ms. MH Sekoma Tel No: (013) 759 4000
For Nkangala District: Dr. BM Mahlangu at 071 499 4823
For Gert Sibande District: Mr. Rs Mhlongo Tel No: (017) 819 2076
For Bohlabela District: Ms. OS Ndhlovu at 076 461 4054
POST 24/113 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: ASSET AND FACILITY MANAGEMENT (X6
POSTS)
SALARY : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office- Mbombela Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/28 (X2 Posts)
Ehlanzeni District- CYCAD Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/29 (X1 Post)
Gert Sibande- Ermelo Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/30 (X1 Post)
Nkangala - Kwamhlanga Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/31 (X1 Post)
Bohlabela- Thulamahashe Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/32 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in Financial Accounting, Cost & Management
Accounting/Finance Related Field
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. Ne Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Mr. XJ Mubi Tel No: (013) 766 6112
For Ehlanzeni District: Ms. Mh Sekoma Tel No: (013) 759 4000
For Nkangala District: Dr. Bm Mahlangu at 071 499 4823
For Gert Sibande District: Mr. Rs Mhlongo Tel No: (017) 819 2076
For Bohlabela District: Ms. OS Ndhlovu at 076 461 4054
POST 24/114 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office- Mbombela Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/33 (X2 Posts)
Ehlanzeni District- CYCAD Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/34 (X1 Post)
Gert Sibande- Ermelo Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/35 (X1 Post)
Nkangala - Kwamhlanga Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/36 (X1 Post)
Bohlabela- Thulamahashe Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/37 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in Financial Accounting, Cost & Management
Accounting/Finance Related Field.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Mr. XJ Mubi Tel No: (013) 766 6112
For Ehlanzeni District: Ms. Mh Sekoma Tel No: (013) 759 4000
For Nkangala District: Dr. Bm Mahlangu at 071 499 4823
For Gert Sibande District: Mr. Rs Mhlongo Tel No: (017) 819 2076
For Bohlabela District: Ms. OS Ndhlovu at 076 461 4054
58
POST 24/115 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: CORPORATE SERVICES (X14 POSTS)
SALARY : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District- CYCAD Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/38 (X4 Posts)
Gert Sibande- Ermelo Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/39 (X4 Posts)
Nkangala - Kwamhlanga Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/40 (X3 Posts)
Bohlabela- Thulamahashe Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/41 (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in HRM, Labour Relations, Public Management
Public Administration or Relevant Field.
ENQUIRIES : For Ehlanzeni District: Ms. MH Sekoma Tel No: (013) 759 4000
For Nkangala District: Dr. Bm Mahlangu at 071 499 4823
For Gert Sibande District: Mr. Rs Mhlongo Tel No: (017) 819 2076
For Bohlabela District: Ms. OS Ndhlovu at 076 461 4054
POST 24/116 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: COMMUNICATION SERVICES (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office- Mbombela Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/42 (X2 Posts)
Ehlanzeni District- CYCAD Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/43 (X1 Post)
Gert Sibande- Ermelo Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/44 (X1 Post)
Nkangala - Kwamhlanga Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/45 (X1 Post)
: Bohlabela- Thulamahashe Ref No: DARDLEA/2025/07/46 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : (Head Office): Diploma/ Degree in Graphic Design Diploma/Degree in Public
Relations/ Journalism/ Graphic Design/ Communications
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Mr. XJ Mubi Tel No: (013) 766 6112
For Ehlanzeni District: Ms. Mh Sekoma Tel No: (013) 759 4000
For Nkangala District: Dr. Bm Mahlangu at 071 499 4823
For Gert Sibande District: Mr. Rs Mhlongo Tel No: (017) 819 2076
For Bohlabela District: Ms. OS Ndhlovu at 076 461 4054
POST 24/117 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/07/47 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office- Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : B-Tech/ Degree in Public Administration/ Monitoring & Evaluation
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe: 013 766 6003 or Ms. Ne Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013) 766 6110
or Mr. XJ Mubi Tel No: (013) 766 6112
POST 24/118 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: POLICY, PLANNING & COORDINATION REF
NO: DARDLEA/2025/07/48 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office- Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : B-Tech/ Degree in Public Administration/ Policy and Planning or Relevant Field
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe: 013 766 6003 or Ms. Ne Hlatshwayo: Tel No: (013) 766 6110
or Mr. XJ Mubi Tel No: (013) 766 6112
POST 24/119 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/07/49 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office- Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma: Internal Auditing/ Risk Management/ Cost and Management/
Financial Management
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SP Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. Ne Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Mr. XJ Mubi Tel No: (013) 766 6112
POST 24/120 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/07/50 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office- Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Degree/Diploma in Labour Relations/ Labour Law
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Sp Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. NE Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Mr. XJ MubI: 013 766 6112
POST 24/121 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: TRANSVERSAL SERVICES REF NO:
DARDLEA/2025/07/51 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R94 326 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office- Mbombela
59
REQUIREMENTS : Degree/Diploma in HRM, Public Management, Public Administration,
Psychology and Occupational Health and Safety
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Sp Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Ms. Ne Hlatshwayo Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Mr. XJ Mubi Tel No: (013) 766 6112
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions.
Candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a detailed Curriculum
Vitae. In order to alleviate administration burden on HR Sections as well as
considering the cost for applicants, Departments are encouraged to request
certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents from shortlisted
candidates only which may be submitted to HR on or before the day of the
interview following communication from the relevant HR section of the
Department. All posts health/engineering posts that are advertised within the
Department professional registration will be required from various statutory
council for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of application documents
should be submitted separately for every post that you wish to apply for. Please
ensure that you clearly state the full post description and the relevant Post
Reference Number on your application. No fax applications will be considered.
Applicants must ensure that they fully complete and sign form Z 83, even if
they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or unsigned applications will not be
considered. If you are currently in service, please indicate your PERSAL
number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing internal processes, the
Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at any time. The
Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All
short listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment.
If no response is received from Mpumalanga Department of Health within 90
days after the closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume that
their application was not successful. Please quote the CORRECT references
when applying and where possible the station / centre where the post is.
www.mpuhealth.gov.za Only Online Applications will be accepted. NB:
Candidates who are not contacted within 90 DAYS after the closing date must
consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. Please Note the
Department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised
posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well served.
(People with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications) N.B. Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments.
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/122 : HEAD: CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1: OPHTHALMOLOGY REF
NO: MPDOH/JUL/25/124
SALARY : R2 084 754 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Ophthalmology
(2025). Valid driver’s licence. A valid work permit will be required from non-
South Africans. Grade 1: A minimum of five (5) years’ appropriate experience
as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist
in Ophthalmology. Experience in academia and research publication will be an
added advantage. Knowledge of relevant legislation, policies and Clinical
Governance, training of junior medical staff is essential.
DUTIES : Clinical: Overall in-charge of Ophthalmology department. Co-ordinate and
supervise clinical care and treatment of patients in Ophthalmology department.
Participation in commuted overtime. Participation in Ophthalmology teaching
of junior clinical staff. Administrate and coordinate all Ophthalmology activities.
Management of 24-hour ophthalmology services. Assist with clinical
governance and quality assurance according to National Core Standards for
Ophthalmology including but not limited to management of complaints,
litigations and Patient Safety Incidents. Conduct research and clinical audits
including adverse events reporting. Evaluate staff performance according to
the hospital’s PMDS processes. Co-operation and liaison with other
departments within the hospital. Conflict management. Participation in
management committees of Witbank Hospital. Cost containment within
60
Ophthalmology department in accordance with the hospital’s cost saving plan.
Spearhead projects in accordance with the operational plan of the clinical
services management unit. Management of other Remunerative Work Outside
Public Service (RWOPS) for self and other clinical staff. Performance of
research within the department. Develop and enhance training and
development of healthcare worker in Ophthalmology department. Training and
supervision of Medical Officers and Medical Interns and Medical Students.
Establish and expand outreach to referring hospitals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/123 : HEAD: CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1: ONCOLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/JUL/25/125
SALARY : R2 084 754 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Oncology (2025).
Valid driver’s licence. A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Grade 1: A minimum of five (5) years’ appropriate experience as
Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Oncology. Experience in academia and research publication will be an added
advantage. Knowledge of relevant legislation, policies and Clinical
Governance, training of junior medical staff is essential.
DUTIES : Clinical: Overall in-charge of Oncology department. Co-ordinate and supervise
clinical care and treatment of patients in Oncology department. Participation in
commuted overtime. Participation in Oncology teaching of junior clinical staff.
Administrate and coordinate all Oncology activities. Management of 24-hour
Oncology services. Assist with clinical governance and quality assurance
according to National Core Standards for Oncology department including but
not limited to management of complaints, litigations and Patient Safety
Incidents. Conduct research and clinical audits including adverse events
reporting. Evaluate staff performance according to the hospital’s PMDS
processes. Co-operation and liaison with other departments within the hospital.
Conflict management. Participation in management committees of Witbank
Hospital. Cost containment within Oncology department in accordance with the
hospital’s cost saving plan. Spearhead projects in accordance with the
operational plan of the clinical services management unit. Management of
other Remunerative Work Outside Public Service (RWOPS) for self and other
clinical staff. Performance of research within the department. Develop and
enhance training and development of healthcare worker in Oncology
department. Training and supervision of Medical Officers and Medical Interns
and Medical Students.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/124 : HEAD: CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1: ORTHOPAEDICS SURGERY
REF NO: MPDOH/JUL/25/126
SALARY : R2 084 754 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Orthopaedics
Surgery (2025). Valid driver’s licence. A valid work permit will be required from
non-South Africans. Grade 1: A minimum of five (5) years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in Orthopaedics Surgery. Experience in academia and
research publication will be an added advantage. Knowledge of relevant
legislation, policies and Clinical Governance, training of junior medical staff is
essential.
DUTIES : Clinical: Overall in-charge of Orthopaedics Surgery department. Co-ordinate
and supervise clinical care and treatment of patients in Orthopaedics Surgery
department. Participation in commuted overtime. Participation in Orthopaedics
Surgery teaching of junior clinical staff. Administrate and coordinate all
Orthopaedics Surgery activities. Management of 24-hour Orthopaedics
Surgery services. Assist with clinical governance and quality assurance
according to National Core Standards for Orthopaedics Surgery department
61
including but not limited to management of complaints, litigations and Patient
Safety Incidents. Conduct research and clinical audits including adverse
events reporting. Evaluate staff performance according to the hospital’s PMDS
processes. Co-operation and liaison with other departments within the hospital.
Conflict management. Participation in management committees of Witbank
Hospital. Cost containment within Neonatology department in accordance with
the hospital’s cost saving plan. Spearhead projects in accordance with the
operational plan of the clinical services management unit. Management of
other Remunerative Work Outside Public Service (RWOPS) for self and other
clinical staff. Performance of research within the department. Develop and
enhance training and development of healthcare worker in Orthopaedics
Surgery department. Training and supervision of Medical Officers and Medical
Interns and Medical Students
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/125 : HEAD: CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1: RADIOLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/JUL/25/127
SALARY : R2 084 754 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Themba Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Radiology (2025).
Valid driver’s licence. A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Grade 1: A minimum of five (5) years’ appropriate experience as a
Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Radiology. Experience in academia and research publication will be an added
advantage. Knowledge of relevant legislation, policies and Clinical
Governance, training of junior medical staff is essential.
DUTIES : Clinical: Overall in-charge of Ophthalmology department. Co-ordinate and
supervise clinical care and treatment of patients in Radiology department.
Participation in commuted overtime. Participation in Ophthalmology teaching
of junior clinical staff. Administrate and coordinate all Radiology activities.
Management of 24-hour ophthalmology services. Assist with clinical
governance and quality assurance according to National Core Standards for
Radiology including but not limited to management of complaints, litigations
and Patient Safety Incidents. Conduct research and clinical audits including
adverse events reporting. Evaluate staff performance according to the
hospital’s PMDS processes. Co-operation and liaison with other departments
within the hospital. Conflict management. Participation in management
committees of Themba Hospital. Cost containment within Ophthalmology
department in accordance with the hospital’s cost saving plan. Spearhead
projects in accordance with the operational plan of the clinical services
management unit. Management of other Remunerative Work Outside Public
Service (RWOPS) for self and other clinical staff. Performance of research
within the department. Develop and enhance training and development of
healthcare worker in Radiology department. Training and supervision of
Medical Officers and Medical Interns and Medical Students. Establish and
expand outreach to referring hospitals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/126 : HEAD: CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1: INTERNAL MEDICINE REF
NO: MPDOH/JUL/25/128
SALARY : R2 084 754 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine
(2025). Valid driver’s licence. A valid work permit will be required from non-
South Africans. Grade 1: A minimum of five (5) years’ appropriate experience
as a Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Internal Medicine. Management skills, good written and verbal
communication skills, leadership and decision-making skills. Knowledge of
public service legislation, regulations and policies including medical ethics,
epidemiology and statistics. Demonstration or the ability to work as part of a
multidisciplinary team.
62
DUTIES : Clinical management of the Internal Medicine department, supervision and
training of clinical staff, teaching of clinical staff, Assessment and immediate
care of all Internal Medicine patients. Provide support for other clinical
departments, ensure departmental administration is in order. Participate in
clinical governance. Ensure that there is clinical improvement plan. Develop
clinical protocols for the department. Provide leadership and promote effective
working environmental clinical audits, sign performance management contract
with the Clinical Manager and subordinates, ensure continuous professional
development. Establish research programme to facilitate generation of new
knowledge.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/127 : HEAD: CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1: CRITICAL CARE REF NO:
MPDOH/JUL/25/129
SALARY : R2 084 754 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Critical Care
(2025). Valid driver’s licence. A valid work permit will be required from non-
South Africans. Grade 1: A minimum of five (5) years’ appropriate experience
as a Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Critical Care. Management skills, good written and verbal
communication skills, leadership and decision-making skills. Knowledge of
public service legislation, regulations and policies including medical ethics,
epidemiology and statistics. Demonstration or the ability to work as part of a
multidisciplinary team.
DUTIES : Clinical management of Critical Care department, supervision and training of
clinical staff, teaching of clinical staff, Assessment and immediate care of all
Critical Care patients. Provide support for other clinical departments, ensure
departmental administration is in order. Participate in clinical governance.
Ensure that there is clinical improvement plan to manage critical patients at
Witbank Hospital and Nkangala District. Develop clinical protocols for the
department. Provide leadership and promote effective working environmental
clinical audits, sign performance management contract with the Clinical
Manager and subordinates, ensure continuous professional development.
Establish research programme to facilitate generation of new knowledge.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/128 : HEAD: CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1: ANAESTHESIOLOGY REF
NO: MPDOH/JUL/25/130 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R2 084 754 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
Themba Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology
(2025). Valid driver’s licence. A valid work permit will be required from non-
South Africans. Grade 1: A minimum of five (5) years’ appropriate experience
as a Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Management skills, good written and verbal
communication skills, leadership and decision-making skills. Knowledge of
public service legislation, regulations and policies including medical ethics,
epidemiology and statistics. Demonstration or the ability to work as part of a
multidisciplinary team.
DUTIES : Clinical management of the Anaesthesiology department, supervision and
training of clinical staff, teaching of clinical staff, Assessment and immediate
care of all Internal Medicine patients. Provide support for other clinical
departments, ensure departmental administration is in order. Participate in
clinical governance. Ensure that there is clinical improvement plan. Develop
clinical protocols for the department. Provide leadership and promote effective
working environmental clinical audits, sign performance management contract
with the Clinical Manager and subordinates, ensure continuous professional
development. Establish research programme to facilitate generation of new
knowledge.
63
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/129 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST (SUB-SPECIALIALTY) GRADE 1: GENERAL
CARDIOLOGY REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/25/131
SALARY : R1 553 670 – R1 647 630 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in General Cardiology
(2025). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Grade 1:
None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent
Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after registration with a
recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
General Cardiology for foreign qualified employees.
DUTIES : Clinical: Provide specialist medical services in General cardiology, Co-ordinate
and supervise clinical care and treatment of patients in General cardiology
department. Participation in commuted overtime in accordance with the
Commuted Overtime Policy. Participation in General cardiology teaching of
junior clinical staff. Execute allocated roles to administrate and coordinate all
General cardiology activities. Assist with clinical governance and quality
assurance according to National Core Standards for General cardiology
department including but not limited to management of complaints, litigations
and Patient Safety Incidents. Conduct research and clinical audits including
adverse events reporting. Evaluate junior staff performance in the department
according to the hospital’s PMDS processes. Co-operation and liaison with
other departments within the hospital. Conflict management. Participation in
management committees of Witbank Hospital. Cost containment within
General cardiology department in accordance with the hospital’s cost saving
plan. Spearhead projects in accordance with the operational plan of the clinical
services management unit. Management of other Remunerative Work Outside
Public Service (RWOPS) for self and other clinical staff in compliance with the
RWOPS policy. Performance of research within the department. Develop and
enhance training and development of healthcare worker in General cardiology
department. Training and supervision of Medical Officers and Medical Interns
and Medical Students.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/130 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST (SUB-SPECIALIALTY) GRADE 1: PAEDIATRIC
CARDIOLOGY REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/25/132
SALARY : R1 553 670 – R1 647 630 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in General Cardiology
(2025). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Grade 1:
None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent
Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after registration with a
recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
General Cardiology for foreign qualified employees.
DUTIES : Clinical: Provide specialist medical services in Paediatric cardiology, Co-
ordinate and supervise clinical care and treatment of patients in Paediatric
cardiology department. Participation in commuted overtime in accordance with
the Commuted Overtime Policy. Participation in Paediatric cardiology teaching
of junior clinical staff. Execute allocated roles to administrate and coordinate
all Paediatric cardiology activities. Assist with clinical governance and quality
assurance according to National Core Standards for Paediatric cardiology
department including but not limited to management of complaints, litigations
and Patient Safety Incidents. Conduct research and clinical audits including
adverse events reporting. Evaluate junior staff performance in the department
according to the hospital’s PMDS processes. Co-operation and liaison with
other departments within the hospital. Conflict management. Participation in
management committees of Witbank Hospital. Cost containment within
Paediatric cardiology department in accordance with the hospital’s cost saving
plan. Spearhead projects in accordance with the operational plan of the clinical
services management unit. Management of other Remunerative Work Outside
64
Public Service (RWOPS) for self and other clinical staff in compliance with the
RWOPS policy. Performance of research within the department. Develop and
enhance training and development of healthcare worker in Paediatric
cardiology department. Training and supervision of Medical Officers and
Medical Interns and Medical Students
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/131 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST (SUB-SPECIALIALTY) GRADE 1:
PULMONOLOGIST REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/25/133
SALARY : R1 553 670 – R1 647 630 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Pulmonologist
(2025). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Grade 1:
None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent
Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after registration with a
recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Pulmonologist for foreign qualified employees.
DUTIES : Clinical: Provide specialist medical services in pulmonology, Co-ordinate and
supervise clinical care and treatment of patients in pulmonology department.
Participation in commuted overtime in accordance with the Commuted
Overtime Policy. Participation in teaching junior clinical staff. Execute allocated
roles to administrate and coordinate all pulmonology activities. Assist with
clinical governance and quality assurance according to National Core
Standards pulmonology department including but not limited to management
of complaints, litigations and Patient Safety Incidents. Conduct research and
clinical audits including adverse events reporting. Evaluate junior staff
performance in the department according to the hospital’s PMDS processes.
Co-operation and liaison with other departments within the hospital and referral
cluster. Conflict management. Participation in management committees of
Witbank Hospital. Cost containment within the pulmonology department is in
accordance with the hospital’s cost-saving plan. Spearhead projects in
accordance with the operational plan of the clinical services management unit.
Management of other Remunerative Work Outside Public Service (RWOPS)
for self and other clinical staff in compliance with the RWOPS policy.
Performance of research within the department. Develop and enhance training
and development of healthcare workers in t pulmonology department. Training
and supervision of Medical Officers and Medical Interns and Medical Students.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/132 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1: CARDIOLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/134
SALARY : R1 341 855 – R1 422 810 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Cardiology (2025).
A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Grade 1: None
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after registration with a recognized
Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Cardiology
for foreign qualified employees.
DUTIES : Clinical: Provide specialist medical services in Cardiology. Co-ordinate and
supervise clinical care and treatment of patients in Cardiology department.
Participation in commuted overtime in accordance with the Commuted
Overtime Policy. Participation in Cardiology teaching of junior clinical staff.
Execute allocated roles to administrate and coordinate all Cardiology activities.
Assist with clinical governance and quality assurance according to National
Core Standards for Cardiology department including but not limited to
management of complaints, litigations and Patient Safety Incidents. Conduct
research and clinical audits including adverse events reporting. Evaluate junior
staff performance in the department according to the hospital’s PMDS
processes. Co-operation and liaison with other departments within the hospital.
Conflict management. Participation in management committees of Rob
65
Ferreira Hospital. Cost containment within Cardiology department in
accordance with the hospital’s cost saving plan. Spearhead projects in
accordance with the operational plan of the clinical services management unit.
Management of other Remunerative Work Outside Public Service (RWOPS)
for self and other clinical staff in compliance with the RWOPS policy.
Performance of research within the department. Develop and enhance training
and development of healthcare worker in Cardiology department. Training and
supervision of Medical Officers and Medical Interns and Medical Students.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/133 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1: NEUROSURGERY REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/135
SALARY : R1 341 855 – R1 422 810 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Neurosurgery
(2025). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Grade 1:
None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent
Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after registration with a
recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Neurosurgery for foreign qualified employees.
DUTIES : Clinical: Provide specialist medical services in Neurosurgery. Co-ordinate and
supervise clinical care and treatment of patients in Neurosurgery department.
Participation in commuted overtime in accordance with the Commuted
Overtime Policy. Participation in Neurosurgery teaching of junior clinical staff.
Execute allocated roles to administrate and coordinate all Cardiology activities.
Assist with clinical governance and quality assurance according to National
Core Standards for Neurosurgery department including but not limited to
management of complaints, litigations and Patient Safety Incidents. Conduct
research and clinical audits including adverse events reporting. Evaluate junior
staff performance in the department according to the hospital’s PMDS
processes. Co-operation and liaison with other departments within the hospital.
Conflict management. Participation in management committees of Rob
Ferreira Hospital. Cost containment within Neurosurgery department in
accordance with the hospital’s cost saving plan. Spearhead projects in
accordance with the operational plan of the clinical services management unit.
Management of other Remunerative Work Outside Public Service (RWOPS)
for self and other clinical staff in compliance with the RWOPS policy.
Performance of research within the department. Develop and enhance training
and development of healthcare worker in Neurosurgery department. Training
and supervision of Medical Officers and Medical Interns and Medical Students.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/134 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1: RADIOLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/137 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 341 855 – R1 422 810 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Radiology (2025).
A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Grade 1: None
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after registration with a recognized
Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Radiology
for foreign qualified employees.
DUTIES : Clinical: Provide specialist medical services in Radiology. Co-ordinate and
supervise clinical care and treatment of patients in Radiology department.
Participation in commuted overtime in accordance with the Commuted
Overtime Policy. Participation in Radiology teaching of junior clinical staff.
Execute allocated roles to administrate and coordinate all Radiology activities.
Assist with clinical governance and quality assurance according to National
Core Standards for Radiology department including but not limited to
management of complaints, litigations and Patient Safety Incidents. Conduct
66
research and clinical audits including adverse events reporting. Evaluate junior
staff performance in the department according to the hospital’s PMDS
processes. Co-operation and liaison with other departments within the hospital.
Conflict management. Participation in management committees of Witbank
Hospital. Cost containment within Radiology department in accordance with
the hospital’s cost saving plan. Spearhead projects in accordance with the
operational plan of the clinical services management unit. Management of
other Remunerative Work Outside Public Service (RWOPS) for self and other
clinical staff in compliance with the RWOPS policy. Performance of research
within the department. Develop and enhance training and development of
healthcare worker in Radiology department. Training and supervision of
Medical Officers and Medical Interns and Medical Students.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/135 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1: ONCOLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/138
SALARY : R1 341 855 – R1 422 810 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Oncology (2025).
A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Grade 1: None
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after registration with a recognized
Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Oncology
for foreign qualified employees.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate and supervise clinical care and treatment of patients in Oncology
department. Participation in commuted overtime. Participation in Oncology
teaching of junior clinical staff. Administrate and coordinate all Oncology
activities. Management of 24-hour Oncology services. Assist with clinical
governance and quality assurance according to National Core Standards for
Oncology department including but not limited to management of complaints,
litigations and Patient Safety Incidents. Conduct research and clinical audits
including adverse events reporting. Evaluate staff performance according to
the hospital’s PMDS processes. Co-operation and liaison with other
departments within the hospital. Conflict management. Participation in
management committees of Witbank Hospital. Cost containment within
Oncology department in accordance with the hospital’s cost saving plan.
Spearhead projects in accordance with the operational plan of the clinical
services management unit. Management of other Remunerative Work Outside
Public Service (RWOPS) for self and other clinical staff. Performance of
research within the department. Develop and enhance training and
development of healthcare worker in Oncology department. Training and
supervision of Medical Officers and Medical Interns and Medical Students.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/136 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1-3: GENERAL SURGERY REF NO:
MPDOH/JUL/25/142 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 - R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 - R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Hospital (X1 Post) (Gert Sibande District)
Witbank Hospital (X1 Post) (Nkangala District)
Mapulaneng Hospital (X1 Post) and Rob Ferreira Hospital (X1 Post) (Ehlanzeni
District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in General Surgery
(2025). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after
67
registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist (General Surgery) for foreign qualified employees. Grade:
2: A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA
as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years
relevant experience after registration with a recognized foreign health
profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (General
Surgery) for foreign qualified employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10)
years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience
after registration with a recognized foreign health profession council and / or
the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (General Surgery) for qualified foreign
employees.
DUTIES : Clinical: Provide specialist medical services in General Surgery. Co-ordinate
and supervise clinical care and treatment of patients in General surgery
department. Participation in commuted overtime in accordance with the
Commuted Overtime Policy. Participation in General surgery teaching of junior
clinical staff. Execute allocated roles to administrate and coordinate all General
surgery activities. Assist with clinical governance and quality assurance
according to National Core Standards for General surgery department
including but not limited to management of complaints, litigations and Patient
Safety Incidents. Conduct research and clinical audits including adverse
events reporting. Evaluate junior staff performance in the department
according to the hospital’s PMDS processes. Co-operation and liaison with
other departments within the hospital. Conflict management. Participation in
management committees of Witbank Hospital. Cost containment within
General surgery department in accordance with the hospital’s cost saving plan.
Spearhead projects in accordance with the operational plan of the clinical
services management unit. Management of other Remunerative Work Outside
Public Service (RWOPS) for self and other clinical staff in compliance with the
RWOPS policy. Performance of research within the department. Develop and
enhance training and development of healthcare worker in General surgery
department. Training and supervision of Medical Officers and Medical Interns
and Medical Students.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/137 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1-3: NEUROLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/JUL/25/143
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 - R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 - R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Neurology (2025).
A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge
of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public
Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking,
examination, clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 1: None
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after registration with a recognized
Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Neurology)
for foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2: A minimum of five (5) years’
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years relevant experience after
registration with a recognized foreign health profession council and / or the
HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Neurology) for foreign qualified employees.
Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11)
years’ relevant experience after registration with a recognized foreign health
profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Neurology) for
qualified foreign employees.
DUTIES : Clinical: Provide specialist medical services in Neurology. Co-ordinate and
supervise clinical care and treatment of patients in Neurology department.
Participation in commuted overtime in accordance with the Commuted
Overtime Policy. Participation in Neurology teaching of junior clinical staff.
Execute allocated roles to administrate and coordinate all General surgery
activities. Assist with clinical governance and quality assurance according to
National Core Standards for Neurology department including but not limited to
68
management of complaints, litigations and Patient Safety Incidents. Conduct
research and clinical audits including adverse events reporting. Evaluate junior
staff performance in the department according to the hospital’s PMDS
processes. Co-operation and liaison with other departments within the hospital.
Conflict management. Participation in management committees of Witbank
Hospital. Cost containment within Neurology department in accordance with
the hospital’s cost saving plan. Spearhead projects in accordance with the
operational plan of the clinical services management unit. Management of
other Remunerative Work Outside Public Service (RWOPS) for self and other
clinical staff in compliance with the RWOPS policy. Performance of research
within the department. Develop and enhance training and development of
healthcare worker in Neurology department. Training and supervision of
Medical Officers and Medical Interns and Medical Students.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/138 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1-3: PLASTIC SURGERY REF NO:
MPDOH/JUL/25/144
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 - R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 - R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Plastic Surgery
(2025). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist (Plastic Surgery) for foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2:
A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years relevant
experience after registration with a recognized foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Plastic Surgery) for foreign
qualified employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience after registration with a
recognized foreign health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist (Plastic Surgery) for qualified foreign employees.
DUTIES : Clinical management of Critical Care department, supervision and training of
clinical staff, teaching of clinical staff, Assessment and immediate care of all
Plastic Surgery patients. Provide support for other clinical departments, ensure
departmental administration is in order. Participate in clinical governance.
Ensure that there is clinical improvement plan to manage critical patients at
Witbank Hospital and Nkangala District. Develop clinical protocols for the
department. Provide leadership and promote effective working environmental
clinical audits, sign performance management contract with the Clinical
Manager and subordinates, ensure continuous professional development.
Establish research programme to facilitate generation of new knowledge.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/139 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1-3: GASTROENTEROLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/JUL/25/145
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 - R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 - R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Gastroenterology
(2025). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
69
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist (Gastroenterology) for foreign qualified employees. Grade:
2: A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA
as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years
relevant experience after registration with a recognized foreign health
profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist
(Gastroenterology) for qualified foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten
(10) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience
after registration with a recognized foreign health profession council and / or
the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Gastroenterology) for qualified foreign
employees.
DUTIES : Clinical: Provide specialist medical services in Gastroenterology. Co-ordinate
and supervise clinical care and treatment of patients in Gastroenterology
department. Participation in commuted overtime in accordance with the
Commuted Overtime Policy. Participation in Gastroenterology teaching of
junior clinical staff. Execute allocated roles to administrate and coordinate all
Gastroenterology activities. Assist with clinical governance and quality
assurance according to National Core Standards for Gastroenterology
department including but not limited to management of complaints, litigations
and Patient Safety Incidents. Conduct research and clinical audits including
adverse events reporting. Evaluate junior staff performance in the department
according to the hospital’s PMDS processes. Co-operation and liaison with
other departments within the hospital. Conflict management. Participation in
management committees of Witbank Hospital. Cost containment within
General surgery department in accordance with the hospital’s cost saving plan.
Spearhead projects in accordance with the operational plan of the clinical
services management unit. Management of other Remunerative Work Outside
Public Service (RWOPS) for self and other clinical staff in compliance with the
RWOPS policy. Performance of research within the department. Develop and
enhance training and development of healthcare worker in Gastroenterology
department. Training and supervision of Medical Officers and Medical Interns
and Medical Students.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/140 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1-3: CLINICAL HAEMATOLOGIST REF
NO: MPDOH/JUL/25/145
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 - R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 - R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Clinical
Haematologist (2025). A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge
of current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience
after registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as
a Medical Specialist (Clinical Haematologist) for foreign qualified employees.
Grade: 2: A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6)
years’ relevant experience after registration with a recognized foreign health
profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Clinical
Haematologist) for qualified foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten
(10) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience
after registration with a recognized foreign health profession council and / or
the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Clinical Haematologist) for qualified
foreign employees.
70
DUTIES : Clinical: Provide specialist medical services in Clinical Haematology Co-
ordinate and supervise clinical care and treatment of patients in Clinical
Haematology department. Participation in commuted overtime in accordance
with the Commuted Overtime Policy. Participation in Clinical Haematology
teaching of junior clinical staff. Execute allocated roles to administrate and
coordinate all Clinical Haematology activities. Assist with clinical governance
and quality assurance according to National Core Standards for Clinical
Haematology department including but not limited to management of
complaints, litigations and Patient Safety Incidents. Conduct research and
clinical audits including adverse events reporting. Evaluate junior staff
performance in the department according to the hospital’s PMDS processes.
Co-operation and liaison with other departments within the hospital. Conflict
management. Participation in management committees of Witbank Hospital.
Cost containment within Clinical Haematology department in accordance with
the hospital’s cost saving plan. Spearhead projects in accordance with the
operational plan of the clinical services management unit. Management of
other Remunerative Work Outside Public Service (RWOPS) for self and other
clinical staff in compliance with the RWOPS policy. Performance of research
within the department. Develop and enhance training and development of
healthcare worker in Clinical Haematology department. Training and
supervision of Medical Officers and Medical Interns and Medical Students.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/141 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1-3: ORTHODONTIST REF NO:
MPDOH/JUL/25/147
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 - R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 - R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Orthodontist
(2025). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist (Orthodontist) for foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2: A
minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant
experience after registration with a recognized foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Orthodontist) for qualified
foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience after registration with a
recognized foreign health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist (Orthodontist) for qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, Skills,
Training and Competences Required: Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general
clinical domains. The ability to work independently and under pressure and
beyond normal working hours and work with diverse teams. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. An ability to
manage patients independently, diligently, responsibility and engagement
when necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs
and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within
the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team,
self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationships.
DUTIES : Clinical: Provide specialist medical services in Orthodontist, Co-ordinate and
supervise clinical care and treatment of patients in Orthodontist department.
Participation in Orthodontist teaching of junior clinical staff. Execute allocated
roles to administrate and coordinate all Orthodontist activities. Assist with
clinical governance and quality assurance according to National Core
Standards for Orthodontist department including but not limited to
management of complaints, litigations and Patient Safety Incidents. Conduct
research and clinical audits including adverse events reporting. Co-operation
71
and liaison with other departments within the hospital. Conflict management.
Participation in management committees of Witbank Hospital. Cost
containment within Orthodontist department in accordance with the hospital’s
cost saving plan. Spearhead projects in accordance with the operational plan
of the clinical services management unit. Performance of research within the
department. Develop and enhance training and development of healthcare
workers in the Orthodontist department. Training and supervision of Medical
Officers and Medical Interns and Medical Students.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/142 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1-3: OBSTETRICS & GYNAECOLOGY REF
NO: MPDOH/JUL/25/148
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 - R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 - R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Mapulaneng Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Obstetrics &
Gynaecology (2025). A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge
of current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience
after registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as
a Medical Specialist (Obstetrics & Gynaecology) for foreign qualified
employees. Grade: 2: A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration
with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of
six (6) years’ relevant experience after registration with a recognized foreign
health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist
(Obstetrics & Gynaecology) for qualified foreign employees. Grade 3: A
minimum of ten (10) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11) years’
relevant experience after registration with a recognized foreign health
profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Obstetrics &
Gynaecology) for qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, skills, Training and
Competences required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary
management and teamwork and experience in the respective medical
discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general clinical
domains. The ability to work independently and under pressure and beyond
normal working hours and work with diverse team. Good communication,
leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary. Knowledge of current
health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to
teach and guide junior staff within the department. Behavioural Attributes:
Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence and the ability to build
and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Obstetrics & Gynaecology and
coordinate services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to
support the aims and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards
of patient care. Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted
in a level 2/3 package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and
implementation of guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and
training programs. Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous
professional development. Provide support to hospital management towards
an efficient standard of patient care and services maintained. Comply with the
performance Management and Development System (conducting quarterly
reviews and final assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/143 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1-3: ANAESTHESIOLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/JUL/25/150 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 - R1 422 810 per annum
72
Grade 2: R1 531 032 - R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (X1 Post) (Ehlanzeni District)
Ermelo Hospital (X1 Post) (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology
(2025). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist (Anaesthesiology) for foreign qualified employees. Grade:
2: A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA
as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’
relevant experience after registration with a recognized foreign health
profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist
(Anaesthesiology) for qualified foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten
(10) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience
after registration with a recognized foreign health profession council and / or
the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Anaesthesiology) for qualified foreign
employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competences Required: Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. 149 Multidisciplinary management and teamwork
and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge.
Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work
independently and under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work
with diverse teams. Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and
supervisory skills. An ability to manage patients independently, diligently,
responsibility and engagement when necessary. Knowledge of current health
policies, legislation, programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach,
guide and junior staff within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress
tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and
maintain good relationships.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Anaesthesiology and
coordinate services. To execute duties and function with proficiency, to support
the aims and objectives of the Institution that are consistent with standards of
patient care. Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in
a level 2/3 package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and
implementation of guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and
training programs. Sound clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Ability to
deal with all medical emergencies. Knowledge of ethical medical practice.
Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional
development. Providing support to hospital management towards an efficient
standard of patient care and services is maintained. Comply with the
Performance Management and Development System (contacting, quarterly
reviews and final assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/144 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1-3: ENT REF NO: MPDOH/JUL/25/151
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 - R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 - R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in ENT (2025). A valid
work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge of
medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public
Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking,
examination, clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 1: None
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after registration with a recognized
Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (ENT) for
foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2: A minimum of five (5) years’ experience
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
73
A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant experience after registration with a
recognized foreign health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist (ENT) for qualified foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten
(10) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience
after registration with a recognized foreign health profession council and / or
the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (ENT) for qualified foreign employees.
Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competences Required: Sound knowledge of
medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency
and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work independently and
under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work with diverse
teams. Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills.
An ability to manage patients independently, diligently, responsibility and
engagement when necessary. Knowledge of current health policies,
legislation, programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach, guide
and junior staff within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance,
to work within a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good
relationships.
DUTIE : Supervising the management of and managing ENT and coordinating services.
To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that are consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs.
Sound clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Ability to deal with all 151
medical emergencies. Knowledge of ethical medical practice. Assist with
clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Providing support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services is maintained. Comply with the Performance
Management and Development System (contacting, quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/145 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1-3: ORTHOPAEDIC REF NO:
MPDOH/JUL/25/152
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 - R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 - R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Themba Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Orthopaedic
(2025). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist (Orthopaedic) for foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2: A
minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant
experience after registration with a recognized foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Orthopaedic) for qualified
foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience after registration with a
recognized foreign health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist (Orthopaedic) for qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, Skills,
Training and Competences Required: Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general
clinical domains. The ability to work independently and under pressure and
beyond normal working hours and work with diverse teams. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. An ability to
manage patients independently, diligently, responsibility and engagement
when necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs
74
and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within
the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team,
self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationships.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Orthopaedic and coordinate
services. To execute duties and function with proficiency, to support the aims
and objectives of the Institution that are consistent with standards of patient
care. Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level
2/3 package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs.
Sound clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Ability to deal with all
medical emergencies. Knowledge of ethical medical practice. Assist with
clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Providing support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services is maintained. Comply with the Performance
Management and Development System (contacting, quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/146 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1-3: PAEDIATRIC REF NO:
MPDOH/JUL/25/153
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 - R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 - R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Paediatric (2025).
A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge
of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public
Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking,
examination, clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 1: None
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after registration with a recognized
Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Paediatric)
for foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2: A minimum of five (5) years’
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant experience after
registration with a recognized foreign health profession council and / or the
HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Paediatric) for qualified foreign employees.
Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11)
years’ relevant experience after registration with a recognized foreign health
profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Paediatric) for
qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competences
Required: Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound
clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The
ability to work independently and under pressure and beyond normal working
hours and work with diverse teams. Good communication, leadership,
interpersonal, and supervisory skills. An ability to manage patients
independently, diligently, responsibility and engagement when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationships.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Paediatric and coordinate
services. To execute duties and function with proficiency, to support the aims
and objectives of the Institution that are consistent with standards of patient
care. Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level
2/3 package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs.
Sound clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Ability to deal with all
medical emergencies. Knowledge of ethical medical practice. Assist with
clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Providing support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services is maintained. Comply with the Performance
Management and Development System (contacting, quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
75
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/147 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1-3: INTERNAL MEDICINE REF NO:
MPDOH/JUL/25/154
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 - R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 - R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine
(2025). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist (Internal Medicine) for foreign qualified employees. Grade:
2: A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA
as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’
relevant experience after registration with a recognized foreign health
profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Internal
Medicine) for qualified foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10)
years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience
after registration with a recognized foreign health profession council and / or
the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Internal Medicine) for qualified foreign
employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competences Required: Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge.
Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work
independently and under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work
with diverse teams. Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and
supervisory skills. An ability to manage patients independently, diligently,
responsibility and engagement when necessary. Knowledge of current health
policies, legislation, programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach,
guide and junior staff within the department. 150 Behavioural Attributes: Stress
tolerance, working within a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and
maintain good relationships. Knowledge of ethical medical practice.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Internal Medicine and
coordinate services. To execute duties and function with proficiency, to support
the aims and objectives of the Institution that are consistent with standards of
patient care. Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in
a level 2/3 package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and
implementation of guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and
training programs. Sound clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Ability to
deal with all medical emergencies. Assist with clinical audits actively participate
in continuous professional development. Providing support to hospital
management towards an efficient standard of patient care and services is
maintained. Comply with the Performance Management and Development
System (contacting, quarterly reviews and final assessment)
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/148 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1-3: PSYCHIATRIC REF NO:
MPDOH/JUL/25/155
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 - R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 - R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatric (2025).
A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge
76
of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public
Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking,
examination, clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 1: None
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after registration with a recognized
Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Psychiatric)
for foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2: A minimum of five (5) years’
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant experience after
registration with a recognized foreign health profession council and / or the
HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Psychiatric) for qualified foreign employees.
Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11)
years’ relevant experience after registration with a recognized foreign health
profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Psychiatric) for
qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competences
Required: Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound
clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The
ability to work independently and under pressure and beyond normal working
hours and work with diverse teams. Good communication, leadership,
interpersonal, and supervisory skills. An ability to manage patients
independently, diligently, responsibility and engagement when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationships.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Psychiatric and coordinate
services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims
and objectives of the Institution that are consistent with standards of patient
care. Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level
2/3 package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits and actively participate in continuous professional
development. Providing support to hospital management towards an efficient
standard of patient care and services is maintained. Comply with the
Performance Management and Development System (contacting, quarterly
reviews and final assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/149 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (PB-B4): CASUALTY / ONCOLOGY /
RENAL REF NO: MPDOH/JUL/25/156
SALARY : R755 355 - R863 667 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post-basic nursing qualification, with
a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in Trauma & Emergency
/ Oncology / Renal Nursing Science. A minimum of ten (10) years appropriate
/ recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the SANC in general nursing. At least six (6) years of the period referred
to above must be appropriate / recognisable experience in the Specific
Specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant
specialty. At least three (3) years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate / recognisable experience at management level. A valid driver’s
licence. Skills: Knowledge of nursing care process and procedures, nursing
statutes and other relevant legal framework such as Nursing Act, Health Act,
Occupational Health and Safety Act 44 Patient’s Right Charter, Batho-Pele
Principles, Sound Knowledge and skills in implementing disciplinary code and
procedure, grievance procedure Leadership, Organisational decision-making
solving abilities within the limit of the public sector and Institutional policy
framework. Good interpersonal skills including public relation, negotiating,
conflict handling and counselling skills. Knowledge of financial and budgetary
prescripts and process pertaining to the relevant resources under
management. Insight into public health sector strategies and priorities,
standard procedures and policies pertaining to nurse care, computer skills in
basic programs.
77
DUTIES : Provide effective management and professional leadership in the specialized
units and Casualty / Oncology / Renal units. Demonstrate effective
communication with patients, supervisors, other health professionals and junior
colleagues including more complex report writing when required. Effective
management, utilization and supervision of all resources. Display a concern for
patients, promoting advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care.
Ensure that the units adhere to the principles of clinical governance, including
the Nursing strategy. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and any labour
related issues in terms of laid down procedures. Provide supportive supervision
and comply with PMDS evaluation of staff, formulate training programs and
participate in training and development of staff and nursing students, monitor
implementation of PMDS.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/150 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): BURNS & PLASTIC UNIT
(TRAUMA & EMERGENCY ICU REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/25/157
SALARY : R693 096 – R789 861 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/
Degree in Nursing) that allows registration with the 'South African Nursing
Council' (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing
qualification, with a duration of at least one (01) year accredited with the SANC
in terms Government 47 Notice R212 in Trauma and Emergency / Intensive
Care Nursing Science. Diploma/Degree in nursing management. Minimum of
ten (09) years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration
as a Professional Nurse with South African Nursing Council (SANC) in General
Nursing At least six (05) years of period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable in the specific specialty after obtaining the one (01)
year post basic qualification in Trauma and Emergency / Intensive Care
Nursing Science. At least three (03) years of the period referred to above must
be an appropriate/recognizable experience at Management Level.
Competencies/Knowledge/Skills: Knowledge of legal prescripts that regulate
nursing and health services. Computer literacy i.e. (MS Word, Power Point).
Ability to work independently and innovatively. Facilitation and presentation
skills, problem solving and decision-making skills. Demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practice.
DUTIES : Provide effective management and professional leadership in the specialized
units of Trauma and Emergency / Intensive Care Unit. Demonstrate effective
communication with patients, supervisors, other health professional and junior
colleagues including more complex report writing when required Effective
management, utilization and supervision of all resources. Display a concern for
patients, promoting, advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care and
ensure that the unit adheres to the principles of Batho Pele Maintain clinical
competence by ensuring that scientific principles of nursing and clinical
governance are implemented. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and any
labour related issues in terms of laid down procedures. Provide supportive
supervision and comply with PMDS evaluation of staff, formulate training
programs and participate in training and development of staff and nursing
students. Monitor implementation of Disaster management, monitor
implementation of Norms & Standards and Ideal Hospital Realization
Framework and interpret its impact on service delivery thereof. Co-ordinate and
participate in health promotion activities and monitor and evaluation of data.
Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a support tool to enhance service
delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/151 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): NEONATAL UNIT REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/158
SALARY : R693 096 – R789 861 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/
Degree in Nursing) that allows registration with the 'South African Nursing
78
Council' (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing
qualification, with a duration of at least one (01) year accredited with the SANC
in terms Government 47 Notice R212 in Advanced Midwifery & Neonatal
Nursing / Intensive Care Nursing Science. Diploma/Degree in nursing
management. Minimum of ten (09) years appropriate/recognizable experience
in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with South African Nursing
Council (SANC) in General Nursing At least six (05) years of period referred to
above must be appropriate/recognizable in the specific specialty after obtaining
the one (01) year post basic qualification in Advanced Midwifery & Neonatal
Nursing / Intensive Care Nursing Science. At least three (03) years of the
period referred to above must be an appropriate/recognizable experience at
Management Level. Competencies/Knowledge/Skills: Knowledge of legal
prescripts that regulate nursing and health services. Computer literacy i.e. (MS
Word, Power Point). Ability to work independently and innovatively. Facilitation
and presentation skills, problem solving and decision-making skills.
Demonstrate an in-depth understanding of nursing legislation and related legal
and ethical nursing practice.
DUTIES : Provide effective management and professional leadership in the specialized
units of Neonatal Unit. Demonstrate effective communication with patients,
supervisors, other health professional and junior colleagues including more
complex report writing when required Effective management, utilization and
supervision of all resources Display a concern for patients, promoting,
advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care and ensure that the unit
adheres to the principles of Batho Pele Maintain clinical competence by
ensuring that scientific principles of nursing and clinical governance are
implemented. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and any labour related
issues in terms of laid down procedures. Provide supportive supervision and
comply with PMDS evaluation of staff, formulate training programs and
participate in training and development of staff and nursing students Monitor
implementation of Disaster management, monitor implementation of NCS and
Ideal Hospital Realization Framework and interpret its impact on service
delivery thereof. Co-ordinate and participate in health promotion activities and
monitor and evaluation of data Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a
support tool to enhance service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/152 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): PAEDIATRIC/CHILD
NURSING SCIENCE REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/25/159
SALARY : R693 096 – R789 861 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIEREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/
Degree in Nursing) that allows registration with the 'South African Nursing
Council' (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing
qualification, with a duration of at least one (01) year accredited with the SANC
in terms Government 47 Notice R212 in Paediatric/Child Nursing science.
Diploma/Degree in nursing management. Minimum of ten (09) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with South African Nursing Council (SANC) in General
Nursing At least six (05) years of period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable in the specific specialty after obtaining the one (01)
year post basic qualification in Paediatric/Child Nursing science. At least three
(03) years of the period referred to above must be an appropriate/recognizable
experience at Management Level. Competencies/Knowledge/Skills:
Knowledge of legal prescripts that regulate nursing and health services.
Computer literacy i.e. (MS Word, Power Point). Ability to work independently
and innovatively. Facilitation and presentation skills, problem solving and
decision-making skills. Demonstrate an in-depth understanding of nursing
legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practice.
DUTIES : Delegate, supervise and co-ordinate the provision of effective and efficient
patient care through adequate nursing care. Initiate and participate in health
promotion to ensure consistent communication of relevant, accurate and
comprehensive information on health care. Develop/establish and maintain
constructive relationships with nursing and other stakeholders (i.e.
interpersonal, inter-sectoral and multi-disciplinary teamwork). Participate in the
analysis, formulation of nursing guidelines, norms, and standards. Manage
effective utilization and supervision of human, financial and material resources.
Co-ordination of provision of effective training and research. Be allocated to
work Weekends, public holidays and relieve the night supervisor when
79
required. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development. Management of personnel performance and review thereof.
(Contracting, review and final performance assessment)
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/153 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): NEPHROLOGY NURSING
SCIENCE REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/25/160
SALARY : R693 096 – R789 861 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIEREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree
in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South
African Nursing Council as a Professional Nurse. Current registration with the
South African Nursing Council. A minimum of nine (9) years of
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least five (5) years’
experience after obtaining the one (1) year Diploma Nephrology nursing
science: At least three (3) years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognize experience at management level. A post basic
qualification in Nursing Administration/Health service management.
Competencies/Knowledge/Skills: Knowledge of legal prescripts that regulate
nursing and health services. Computer literacy i.e. (Ms Word, Power Point).
Ability to work independently and innovatively. Facilitation and presentation
skills, problem solving and decision-making skills.
DUTIES : Delegate, supervise and co-ordinate the provision of effective and efficient
patient care through adequate nursing care. Initiate and participate in health
promotion to ensure consistent communication of relevant, accurate and
comprehensive information on health care. Develop/establish and maintain
constructive relationships with nursing and other stake holders (i.e.
interpersonal, inter-sectoral and multi-disciplinary teamwork). Participate in the
analysis, formulation of nursing guidelines, norms, and standards. Manage
effective utilization and supervision of human, financial and material resources.
Co-ordination of provision of effective training and research. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development. Be allocated to
work Weekends, public holidays and relieve the night supervisor when
required. Management of personnel performance and review thereof.
(Contracting, review and final performance assessment)
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/154 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): PHC REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/161
SALARY : R693 096 – R789 861 per annum
CENTRE : Phola Nsikazi CHC (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus Basic qualification
accredited with the South African Nursing Council in Terms of Government
Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma / Degree in Nursing) or Equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025) plus a post
basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice No R212 in Primary Health Care. A
minimum of nine (09) years of appropriate / recognizable experience in nursing
after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
At least five (05) years of the period referred to above must be appropriate /
recognizable experience in Primary Health Care after obtaining the 1 year post
basic PHC Nursing Science qualification. Experience and knowledge of the
District Health System. Demonstrate an in-depth understanding of nursing
legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices and how these impact
on service delivery. Demonstrate a basic understanding of HR and finance and
practices. Knowledge of relevant legal framework such as Nursing Act, Health
Occupational and Safety Act, Patients Right Charter, Batho Pele Principles,
Operational Management Skills. Problem Solving, planning and Organizing
Skills. Expected to work under pressure and on night duty. Leadership.
Supervisory, problem-solving, conflict resolution, inter-personal and
communication and communication skills. Demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of legislation and related ethical nursing practices and how this
80
impact on service delivery. Computer literacy will be an added advantage (MS
Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Manage and provide PHC facility supervisory in line with the PHC Supervision
Guideline. Ensure clinical nursing practice by the nursing team in the facility in
accordance with the scope and practice and nursing standard as determined
by the relevant health facility. Promote quality nursing care as directed by the
professional scope of practice and standard in accordance with the PHC
delivery package. Ensure the implementation on National Core Norms and
Standards including Six Priority Areas. Advocate for patients through ensuring
adherence to Batho Pele Principles. Coordinate community involvement and
participation. Manage and monitor effective use and maintenance of assets
and infrastructure of the facility. Monitor information management and
documentation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/155 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DENTAL TECHNOLOGY GRADE 1 REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/196
SALARY : R638 856 – R707 625 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus a Bachelor of Dental Technology (BTech)
qualification from a recognised South African Institution and current registration
with South African Dental Technician Council (SADTC). A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as a chief dental technician after registration with
SADTC. A previous supervisory position will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Training and supervising dental technicians and other laboratory staff.
managing workflow, ensuring timely and accurate production of dental
prosthesis, and implementing efficient processes. Implementing quality
assurance checks and maintaining standards. Maintaining stock levels,
managing procurement of materials and ensure efficient use of resources.
Liaising with dentists and other health care professionals, communicating with
staff and providing technical guidance. Ensuring the laboratory adheres to OHS
regulations. Comply with performance management and development system.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/156 : CHIEF DIANOSTIC RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/164 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R575 250 – R638 856 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification that allows for
the required registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) in the relevant profession (where applicable) (2025). A minimum of
three (3) years appropriate experience in profession after registration with the
Health Profession Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as independent practice
(where applicable) in respect of employees who performed Community
Service, as a required in SA. Foreign Qualified employees: four (4) year
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant
profession (where applicable) in respect of employees of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Hospital
experience and extensive knowledge in Occupational Health and Safety will be
an added advantage. Good interpersonal Skills, written, verbal and
presentation Skills. Accuracy and attention to detail. Ability to work under
pressure. Ability and willingness to travel. Good interpersonal relationship,
Leadership skill. Valid drivers’ license.
DUTIES : Ensure patient care during imaging for optimal diagnostic purpose: Explain
procedures to patients, prepare patient for imaging, Assist and position patient
for imaging, perform imaging. Practice radiation protection to minimize
radiation dose to staff, patients and general public: Establish LMC status of
female patients, adhere to radiation safety standards (secure area, lead aprons
etc.), Apply correct radiation/exposure factors (correct dosages), Exercise
clinical responsibility to ensure optimal diagnostic imaging: Interpret clinical
history of patients to determine the correct procedure, ensure correct
positioning of patient to minimize radiation exposure to the patient, ensure 98
correct identification of patient image (name, lead markers etc.). Participate in
81
Education and training programs for continuous professional development and
quality service delivery: Practical training and evaluation of students Implement
quality assurance programs for quality service delivery, Check/test radiation
equipment and report faults, apply reject analysis, Adhere to policies and
protocols.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/157 : CLINICAL TECHNOLOGIST GRADE 1: NEPHROLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/166 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R575 250 – R638 856 per annum
Grade 2: R657 507 - R727 350 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus a Bachelor of Dental Technology (BTech)
qualification from a recognised South African Institution and current registration
with South African Dental Technician Council (SADTC) (2025). A minimum of
3 – 5 years’ appropriate experience as a dental technician after registration
with SADTC.
DUTIES : Supervise and monitor the dental laboratory section, allocate daily jobs, and
monitor the performance of technicians and lab assistants. Comply with
performance management and development system. Select appropriate
materials for the design, manufacture and repair of fixed and removable
custom-made devices as prescribed. Design, plan and manufacture a range of
custom-made fixed or removable custom-made devices according to
prescription. Repair and modify fixed or removable custom-made devices as
prescribed. Verify and reconcile the daily in and out work. Record and monitor
compliance of work sent to external service providers. Compile procurement
documents for the unit. Planning and ordering of operational resources for the
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/158 : MMAMOGRAPHY RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/167
SALARY : R491 256 – R559 512 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in
either Nuclear Medicine Radiography, Radiation Oncology Radiography,
Ultrasound Radiography or Mammography Radiography. Current registration
with the HPCSA in either Nuclear Medicine Radiography, Radiation Oncology
Radiography, Ultrasound Radiography or Mammography Radiography (2025).
Minimum of four (4) years appropriate experience after registration with the
Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Diagnostic
Radiographer. Competencies (Knowledge/Skills): Ability to work independently
and as part of a team. Ability to organize and complete examinations in a timely
manner. Demonstrate an understanding of human anatomy, physiology,
pathology and medical terminology. Ability to perform high volume of
mammography examinations to a high standard. Good communication and
interpersonal skills. Knowledge of relevant public service regulations, Acts and
policies.
DUTIES : Perform screening or diagnostic Mammography examinations. Prepare for and
assist the Radiologist in the completion in the invasive mammography
examinations including breast biopsies. Ensure good patient care. Educate the
patient regarding the mammography examination. Produce high quality
mammography images for the radiologist to evaluate. Maintain a high degree
of accuracy in mammography positioning and exposure technique. Manage
quality assurance related to Mammography. Minimize radiation to patients and
staff by practicing correct radiation protection techniques. Compile statistics.
Complete appropriate documentation. Follow infection control and safety
guidelines. Ensure proper care in the use of x-ray equipment and supplies.
Perform general radiographic examinations, CT scan examinations,
Fluoroscopy examinations, Theatre and ward radiographic examinations.
Render after-hour radiology services. Participate in continuous professional
development programmes.
82
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/159 : ULTRASOUND RADIOGRAPHER / SONOGRAPHY GRADE 1 REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/169 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R491 256 – R559 512 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in
either Nuclear Medicine Radiography, Radiation Oncology Radiography,
Ultrasound Radiography or Mammography Radiography. Current registration
with the HPCSA in either Nuclear Medicine Radiography, Radiation Oncology
Radiography, Ultrasound Radiography or Mammography Radiography (2025).
Minimum of four (4) years appropriate experience after registration with the
Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Diagnostic
Radiographer. Competencies (Knowledge/Skills): Ability to work independently
and as part of a team. Ability to organize and complete examinations in a timely
manner. Demonstrate an understanding of human anatomy, physiology,
pathology and medical terminology. Ability to perform high volume of
ultrasound examinations to a high standard. Good communication and
interpersonal skills. Knowledge of relevant public service regulations, Acts and
policies.
DUTIES : Perform diagnostic ultrasound images examinations. Write reports in
accordance with prescribed protocols. Must be able to work independently
without supervision. Adhere and ensure compliance with Radiation Control
Board and HPCSA, Legislation Equipment Maintenance and do monthly stats
in ultrasound department. Partake and facilitate staff and student development.
Participating in CPD as required by HPCSA. High level of responsibility.
Complete appropriate documentation. Follow infection control and safety
guidelines. Ensure proper care in the use of x-ray equipment and supplies.
Perform general radiographic examinations, CT scan examinations,
Fluoroscopy examinations, and Theatre and ward radiographic examinations.
Render after-hour radiology services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/160 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1-2 (PN-B1-2): ONCOLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/171 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 - R723 954 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse (2025). A post-basic nursing
qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in
terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Oncology Nursing Science.
Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Demonstrate an understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices.
DUTIES : Provision of high quality, holistic and specialized nursing care within applicable
legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices. Ensure effective and
efficient management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms
and standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stakeholders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to
prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to protocols.
Able to plan and organize own work and that of support personnel to ensure
83
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of
diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence
to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/161 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1-2 (PN-B1-2): NEPHROLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/178 (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 - R723 954 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (X1 Post) (Ehlanzeni District)
Witbank Hospital (X3 Posts) (Nkangala District)
Ermelo Hospital (X3 Posts) (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/
Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing qualification with
of at least 1year, accredited with the SANC in terms Government Notice R212
in Nephrology Nursing Science. A minimum of four (4) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Demonstrate an understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice of
Nephrology Nursing Care. Ensure effective and efficient management of
resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards.
Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient
care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with
the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stakeholders.
Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that
equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize, coordinate
activities of patient management according to protocols. Able to plan and
organize own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing
care. Participate in staff development and performance management. Report
patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies within the unit. Work
effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse intellectual,
cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho - Pele
Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/162 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1-2 (PN-B1-2): ICU REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/179
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 - R723 954 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/
Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing qualification with
of at least 1year, accredited with the SANC in terms Government Notice R212
in ICU Nursing Science. A minimum of four (4) years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing. Ability to function independently and to prioritize work.
Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-
making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills. Demonstrate an
understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice of
ICU Nursing Care. Ensure effective and efficient management of resources.
Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards. Participate in quality
improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient care standards.
Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with the statutory
84
laws governing the nursing profession, labour and health care. Implement
constructive working relations with nurses and other stakeholders. Ensure
compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that equipment
is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize, coordinate activities of
patient management according to protocols. Able to plan and organize own
work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate
in staff development and performance management. Report patient safety
incidence, challenges and deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-
operatively amicably with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or
religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and
Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/163 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1-2 (PN-B1-2): OPERATING THEATRE
REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/25/180
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 - R723 954 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 (i.e. Diploma / Degree in General
Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse (2025). A post-basic nursing qualification, with a duration
of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice
R212 specialty in Operating Theatre Nursing Science. Current registration with
the SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). Minimum of four (4) years
appropriate /recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC. Ability to function independently and to
prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and
decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills. Demonstrate an
understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Theatre Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management of
resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards.
Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient
care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with
the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stakeholders.
Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that
equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize, coordinate
activities of patient management according to protocols. Able to plan and
organize own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing
care. Participate in staff development and performance management. Report
patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies within the unit. Work
effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse intellectual,
cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho - Pele
Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/164 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1-2 (PN-B1-2): MENTAL HEALTH CARE
UNIT REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/25/182 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 - R723 954 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic 425 qualification (i.e. Diploma / Degree
in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse (205). A post-basic nursing qualification, with a
duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in terms of Government
Notice R212 specialty in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing. Minimum of four (4)
years appropriate /recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC. Ability to function independently and to
prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and
decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills. Demonstrate an
understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices.
85
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the in Mental Health Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stakeholders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to
prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to protocols.
Able to plan and organize own work and that of support personnel to ensure
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of
diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence
to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/165 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1-2 (PN-B1-2): TRAUMA AND
EMERGENCY NURSING/ CRITICAL CARE NURSING REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/187 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 - R723 954 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (Diploma/Degree in
Nursing) or equivalent that allows registration with the South African Nursing
Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic Nursing
Qualification of the duration of 1 year, accredited and registered with SANC in
Trauma and Emergency Nursing Science. Minimum of four (4) years of
appropriate / recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Demonstrate an understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices.
DUTIES : Provision of high quality, holistic and specialized nursing care within applicable
legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices. Perform clinical
nursing practice and promote quality nursing care in accordance with the scope
of practice and nursing standards as determined by the institution. Work as
part of multidisciplinary team to ensure good nursing care. Work effectively,
amicably with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious
differences. Able to plan and organize your own work and that of support of
personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Provision of quality patient care
through adherence to set standards, policies and procedures. Providing more
complex nursing care leads to improved service delivery by upholding Batho-
Pele Principles and Patient’s Rights Charter. Act as shift leader in Unit (when
necessary). Effective utilisation of resources. Participation in training and
research. Maintenance of professional growth, ethical standards and self-
development. Must be prepared to work in the allocated area due to service
demands and work shifts as per allocation; this includes night shift, weekends
and public holidays.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/166 : LECTURER GRADE 1-2 (PN-D1) (CLINICAL SUPERVISOR): ROB
FERREIRA HOSPITAL CAMPUS REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/25/190 (X3
POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 - R766 686 per annum
CENTRE : Mpumalanga College of Nursing (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Basic R425
qualification (Diploma / Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
86
Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2025) plus post basic qualification in
Nursing Education registered with the SANC. A minimum of four (4) years
appropriate / recognisable nursing experience after registration as Professional
Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function independently and
to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving
and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills. Experience
after registration with SANC in Nursing Education after obtaining post basic
qualification in Nursing Education will be an added advantage. Excellent written
and verbal communication. Leadership skills, Presentation, Facilitation,
problem solving, conflict management, research, project management and
time management skills. Excellent written and verbal communication.
DUTIES : Planning, co-ordination, implementation, and facilitation of training
programmes for nurses in the health establishment. Mentoring and coaching
of nursing staff. Co-ordinate the activities of Clinical Education and Training
Unit (CETU). Facilitate the implementation of Continuous Professional
Development (CPD) Framework. Liaise between Nursing Education and
Nursing Practice (Hospital & Nursing College). Provide Skills and competency
updates and facilitation of in-service training. Monitoring, evaluation and
analysis of training programmes/activities/competencies and skills to ensure
quality health service delivery. Internal and External Collaboration on training
programmes to ensure effective capacity building. Effective Management,
coordination, administration, and reporting of Teaching Programmes.
Demonstrate an understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and
ethical nursing practices. Effective and efficient management of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/167 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 (PN-B1): PHC REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/194 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Phola Nsikazi CHC (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2025), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Primary Health Care
Science. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC. Ability to
function independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound
interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-making skills. Good
supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Primary Health Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, Labor
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability
to prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to
protocols. Able to plan and organize your own work and that of support
personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and
performance management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and
deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with
people of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure
adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/168 : CLINICAL TECHNOLOGIST GRADE 1: NEPHROLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/196 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 233 – R454 191 per annum
87
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Clinical Technology. Current registration with the HPCSA as Clinical
Technologist (2025). Basic life support (BLS). A minimum of two (2) years
Dialysis experience will be an added advantage. Grade 1: SA qualified
employees: no experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant
profession (where applicable) in respect of employees who performed
Community Service as required in SA. Foreign qualified employees: one (1)
year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant
profession (where applicable) in respect of employees who performed
Community Service as required in SA. Knowledge and insight related to
dialysis machines and reverse osmosis/water purification system. Knowledge
of infection prevention and control (IPC) protocols. Basic computer literacy.
Knowledge of relevant legislation and policy related to nephrology. Ability to
function independently as well as part of a multidisciplinary team. Effective 98
communication. Good organizational skill and ability to function under
pressure. Must be prepared to work shifts, weekends and public holidays.
DUTIES : Deliver safe, comprehensive and quality patient care, with specific reference
to renal disease treatment and education according to the Scope of Practice
and Renal Care policies and standard procedures. Clinical record keeping,
procedures and protocols. Dialysis machine and water purification system
operation. Identify, prevent and manage risks to ensure patient safety.
Facilitate a positive patient experience by creating a conducive environment.
Develop/modify an integrated, comprehensive patient-based care plan. Patient
assessment and interpretation of blood results.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/169 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/197
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Supply
Chain Management / Financial Accounting / Cost Accounting / Purchasing /
Accounting / Finance / Logistics / Economics / Internal Audit as recognized by
SAQA. At least a minimum 3 - 5 years' relevant experience of which three (3)
years’ experience must be at supervisory / managerial (Level 7/8) within the
Finance Environment. Knowledge: Supply Chain Framework. Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework. Departmental policies and procedures.
Project Management. General management. Strategic management. PFMA.
PPPPFA. Treasury Regulations. Experience in Acquisition of goods and
services procurement of goods, Logistics, fleet management, demand and
contract management. Computer literacy. Skills: Leadership. Negotiating.
Facilitation Computer literacy. Presentation. Innovative. Analytical. Verbal and
written communication, presentation skills, management skills, good
communication skill and excellent interpersonal relations. Experience on
government systems (BAS &LOGIS), knowledge of financial prescripts. Valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Implementation of Asset, Acquisition, procurement, Logistics, demand,
contract and fleet management policies and procedures of the department.
Oversee, coordinate, and advise on the process of drafting specifications/terms
of reference and special conditions of contract; compile a procurement plan.
Compile monthly SCM reports. Oversee the utilization of the central supplier
Database in the bid/quotation process. Control and oversee a compliant
execution of the bid/quotation processes. Oversee management of fleet and
assets. Administer demand management plans for all sub units and manage
inventory. Oversee management of departmental, provincial interdepartmental
and national contracts. Compile operational plan for the unit. Identify and
mitigate risk within the unit providing training to officials on new developments
and SCM processes and policies. Management of Human Resources in the
unit including performance assessment of the officials in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
88
POST 24/170 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DEMAND MANAGEMENT REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/25/198
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Supply
Chain Management / Financial Accounting / Cost Accounting / Purchasing /
Accounting / Finance / Logistics / Economics / Internal Audit as recognized by
SAQA. At least a minimum of three (3) years' relevant experience of which
three (3) years’ experience must be at supervisory / managerial (Level 7/8)
within the Finance Environment. Knowledge: Supply Chain Framework.
Preferential Procurement Policy Framework. Departmental policies and
procedures. Project Management. General management. Strategic
management. PFMA. PPPPFA. Treasury Regulations. Experience in
Acquisition of goods and services procurement of goods, Logistics, fleet
management, demand and contract management. Computer literacy. Skills:
Leadership. Negotiating. Facilitation Computer literacy. Presentation.
Innovative. Analytical. Verbal and written communication, presentation skills,
management skills, good communication skill and excellent interpersonal
relations. Experience on government systems (BAS &LOGIS), knowledge of
financial prescripts. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Develop internal procurement policies, regulations systems and procedures.
Maintain sound procurement systems and processes. Provide and administer
demand activities, variance analysis, market analysis and industry analysis.
Facilitate and administer the requisitions for goods and services. Establish and
maintain a database of price benchmarks. Manage forecasting demand and
replenishment of commodities. Carry out total cost of ownership analysis for
reporting purposes. Liaise with central supply chain unit on advertisement.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 24/171 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): GENERAL NURSING REF
NO: MPDOH/JULY/25/199
SALARY : R324 384 – R382 107 per annum
CENTRE : Phola Nsikazi CHC (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus Basic qualification accredited
with the SANC in terms of Government Notice (i.e., Diploma/ Degree in
General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse (2025). Grade 1: A minimum of 1-10 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem-solving and decision-making skills.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho- Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
89
ANNEXURE L
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the Department.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z83
obtainable from any Public Service Department or any Public Service
Administration website. The fully completed and signed Z83 should be
accompanied by a detailed/comprehensive Curriculum Vitae, indicating
positions held, dates and key performance responsibilities. Only short-listed
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of their qualifications and
relevant documents on or before the day of the interview proceedings following
communication from the Human Resource Management Recruitment and
Selection Unit. Failure to submit the requested documents or information will
result in your application not being considered. The employment decision shall
be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the
Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through
the filling of this post(s) with a candidate whose transfer / promotion /
appointment will promote representavity in line with the numerical targets as
contained in our Employment Equity Plan. If you have not been contacted
within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be
subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, qualification
verification and employment verification). Where applicable, candidates will be
subjected to a skills/knowledge test. The Department reserves the right not to
make any appointment(s) to the above post. The successful candidate will be
expected to sign a performance agreement. The Department of Health is an
equal opportunity affirmative action employer. The request for certified
documents will be limited to shortlisted candidates. The Human Resource
Administration of the Department will inform shortlisted candidate for a post to
submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview. Should an
applicant wish to apply for more than one post, separate applications must be
submitted for all posts.
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/172 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (MR-6) REF NO: NCDOH
89/2025 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R586 956 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Provincial Officer, Kimberley
REQUIRMENTS : Bachelor’s (NQF 7) in LLB Degree and 8(eight) years ‘appropriate proven post
qualification in legal experience. An admission as an attorney or para-legal
training/experience. Display knowledge and understanding of drafting legal
documents. Understand and have advanced knowledge of legal research
principles. Display an understanding of case law relevant to the legal matter at
hand and be guided in presenting motivation or proposals on how the specific
case should be approached to obtain desirable/justifiable outcome. Knowledge
of Litigation, Advocacy, Legal Research, Legal Drafting, Dispute resolution and
Case Flow Management. Experience in Medico Legal Law. Skills in problem
solving, communication, honesty, integrity, research and computer literacy.
Valid Driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Manage service level agreements, contracts and vendor performance. Draft
legal documents and advice on and or mentor juniors on the drafting of legal
documents that provide clear motivation/justification for particular position
pertaining to the case, also proposing the approach to be followed to ensure
success in this regard. Successfully conduct an interview in order to determine
the departments goals and objectives and advice the department on possible
courses of action during the consultation process, in relation to legal
entitlements and departments instructions. Document interview and all advice
given during legal consultation in writing. Provide advice and guidance to lower
level production employees on advanced interview techniques to address more
sensitive or complicated issues as well as guide employees on the advice that
should be rendered to the department’s interview techniques to address more
sensitive or complicated issues as well as guide employees on the advice that
should be rendered to the department. Provide medico-legal services (litigation
and legal advisory services).
ENQUIRIES : Ms LV Moleleki Tel No: (053) 8302 103
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building,
Room 29, couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum
90
Building, Kimberley Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed to
nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application register
when an application is hand delivered
POST 24/173 : PHARMACY INTERN REF NO: NCDOH 90/2025 (X8 POSTS)
(Contract)
SALARY : R440 226 per annum, (TCE package)
CENTRE : Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe Hospital (X3 Posts), Kimberley, Dr Harry Surtie
Hospital (X3 Posts), Upington, De Aar Hospital (X1 Post), De Aar, Manne
Dipico Hospital (X1 Post), Colesberg
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Pharmacy accredited with the South African Pharmacy Council
(SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist Intern.
Registration with the South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) as a Pharmacist
Intern before commencement of duty. Competencies (Knowledge/Skills):
Ability to work accurately under pressure and maintain a high standard of
professionalism. Computer literacy. Good interpersonal and communication
skills. Knowledge of and ability to comply with applicable Pharmacy legislation,
National and Provincial Health policies.
DUTIES : Adherence to policies, procedures, and expenditure control. All duties will be
performed under the direct supervision of a Pharmacist. Assist with the training,
education and development of pharmacy staff and other health workers, and
promotion of public health. Effective medicine supply management to ensure
the safe and reliable procurement, storage, control, and distribution of quality
pharmaceuticals. Leadership by demonstrating initiative in addressing
problems. Provision of Pharmaceutical Care, including prescription evaluation,
dispensing of medication and provision of information to ensure patient
compliance and therapeutic success. Quality Management by demonstrating
compliance with National Core Standards, Occupational Health & Safety
control, and Good Pharmacy practices.
ENQUIRIES : L Vertue Tel No: (053) 830 2702
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building,
Room 29, couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum
Building, Kimberley Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed to
nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application register
when an application is hand delivered
NOTE : Preference will be given to Northern Cape Bursary holders and applicants
residing in the Northern Cape. Only Z83 and CV submitted on application all
other documents to be submitted by shortlisted candidates. These vacancies
are for the mid-year intake (July/August 2025). Accommodation during
Pharmacist Internship will not be provided. Duty can only be assumed once
registration as a Pharmacist Intern is complete
91
ANNEXURE M
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference.
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/174 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (EMERGENCY MEDICINE)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs).
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Emergency Medicine. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Emergency
Medicine. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in Emergency Medicine. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
(or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign
qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Emergency Medicine. Grade 3:
A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in
Emergency Medicine. Inherent requirements of the job: Commuted Overtime.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent track record of clinical, research
and educational skills. Ability to communicate effectively (verbal and written).
Ability to work as part of a multidisciplinary team and maintain good
interpersonal relationships with staff, patients and families. Appropriate and
sufficient experience in the emergency environment seeing trauma and non-
trauma patients as the senior member of a team. Advanced resuscitation
proficiency, procedural skills and Ultrasound competency is an absolute
requirement.
DUTIES : Provision of quality clinical and non-clinical patient care in the emergency
environment both during working hours as well as after hours. Partake in the
clinical governance for the department including medicolegal matters.
Contribute to the teaching of undergraduate and postgraduate students as well
as interns and medical officers. Involvement in innovation projects and
research activities within the department. Provision of leadership of
multidisciplinary teams.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Ndwebe Tel No: (021) 404 4157. Email:
Sinazo.Ndwebi@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status). -Please
ensure that you attach an updated CV.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/175 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (ANAESTHETICS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs).
92
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Anaesthetics. Registration
with a professional council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
in Anaesthetics. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA
as Medical Specialist in Anaesthetics. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
(or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign
qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in Anaesthetics Grade 3: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of foreign qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in
Anaesthetics. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid SA driver’s license.
Participate in the after-hours call system. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Proven leadership abilities and experience in supervision of staff. Proven
experience in principles of planning, organizing and implementation. Proven
knowledge of Public health policies, guidelines and related prescript to manage
resources effectively. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Ensure an efficient and cost-effective Anaesthetics service of high quality with
a patient centered focus and addressing the burden of disease in the
Worcester Central Ecosystem. Support to major referral centers in the
Drainage area of Worcester hospital by doing Outreach and support and
improving competencies in the District Health System to manage patients
appropriately and impact on wellness in the Geographic area. Financial
management by effective and efficient use of resources. Adhere to
requirements for all HR matters. Create a learning environment for junior staff,
and students, both under- and postgraduate as required. Do appropriate
clinical audits and research within the department to stay abreast of clinical
development.
ENQUIRIES : Dr C van der Westhuizen Tel No: (023) 348 1100
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Worcester Regional Hospital for a
period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/176 : SENIOR REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (PAEDIATRIC ONCOLOGY)
(2 Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 341 855 per annum, A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Paediatrics.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Experience in paediatric oncology. Excellent
communication skills. Ability to function independently at a level of a Medical
Specialist in Paediatrics. FCPaed. MMed (Paed).
DUTIES : To render a comprehensive clinical service in Paediatric Oncology covering
day-time work and after-hours. To provide Paediatric Oncology inpatient and
outpatient care, as well as performing clinical teaching, administrative duties,
management of the unit and research.
ENQUIRIES : Prof A Van Zyl Tel No: (021) 938-9444
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : Appointment as Senior Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 2
years. It may become necessary to second/transfer staff to another
hospital/institution during their period of training, in which case affected staff
will be consulted prior to any decision being implemented. Senior Registrars
will function across health facilities, as per an agreed programme. Should
registration with the HEI as a student be discontinued for any reason the
appointment as a Senior Registrar also discontinues. Consideration will be
93
given to existing employees who are already on higher salary packages to
retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled to
receive pay progression. Appointment as Senior Registrar will be on contract.
Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension benefits as Senior
Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their registrarship
should they not be successful for advertised Medical Sub-Specialist positions.
The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this
regard will be appreciated. Specific Senior Registrar posts within the
Department will be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to
create a representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures.
Preference will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity
document. Senior Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with
Stellenbosch University according to the yearbook and guidelines. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
as Medical Specialist in Paediatrics with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/177 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs).
CENTRE : Knysna/Bitou Sub District (Stationed at Knysna Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of who is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a medical practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 6 years relevant experience after registration as a medical
practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of who is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a medical practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration as a medical
practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of who is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
Driver’s licence (Code B/EB). Willingness to work commuted overtime and after
hours when needed. Willingness to travel and support other facilities in the sub
district. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to communicate effectively
(verbal and written). Ability to work in integrated multi-disciplinary teams across
platforms. Computer literacy in MS Office mandatory. Diploma in either Child
Health, HIV, PEC, Psychiatry, Obstetrics and Anaesthesia.
DUTIES : Quality clinical, non-clinical and medico-legal patient care as required by the
various programmes of the Department of Health. Supervise-, Support -,
transfer of knowledge to-, training- and mentoring of the clinical staff and
auxiliary staff. Provide an efficient administration service regarding all clinical
and non-clinical matters and medico-legal work. Provide guidance and
leadership towards the realisation of strategic goals and objectives of the
division. Ensure a cost-efficient service at clinical level with regards to
laboratory services, blood, medicine, consumables and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Dr FR Potgieter Tel No: (044) 302 -8400
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
94
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Garden Route District, for a
period of 3 months from the date of the advert. Candidates may be subjected
to competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/178 : PHARMACY SUPERVISOR GRADE 1 TO 2
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 093 611 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs).
CENTRE : Inzame Zabantu Community Day Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic qualification accredited with the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC
as a Pharmacist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) as Pharmacist. Experience: A
minimum of 3 years appropriate experience after registration as a Pharmacist
with the SAPC. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
license. To be registered as Responsible Pharmacist with the SAPC when
appointed. Prepared to be registered as a tutor with the SAPC. Competencies
(knowledge/ skills): Extensive knowledge of Good Pharmacy Practice (GPP).
Appropriate knowledge of National and Provincial Health Policies and
Pharmaceutical acts and laws. Supervision, management &, leadership skills.
Communication and conflict handling skills. Experience or knowledge of
Medsas. Experience or knowledge of JAC. Computer literacy. Appropriate
ability to tutor Pharmacist’s Assistants and/or Intern Pharmacists. Extensive
Knowledge on CDU, Differential model of care, COPC and Principals.
DUTIES : Take leadership in the pharmacy to establish a value driven pharmacy service
and implement policies and guidelines in keeping with the Batho Pele, SAPC
and National Drug policy and National and Provincial treatment guidelines.
Ensure adherence to minimum standards for dispensing as well as accessibility
to medication and pharmaceutical care to patients. Manage, assess, and
monitor compliance w.r.t Good Pharmacy Practice, Ideal Clinic and National
Core Standards. Effective monitoring of pharmaceutical expenditure,
implementation, and evaluation of budgetary control measures. Human
Resource Management which includes tutoring of Pharmacist’s Assistants as
well as development of pharmacy staff. Maintain and improve the quality of
patient care as a member of the multi-disciplinary team within the primary
health setting.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Roomanay Tel No: (021) 370-5128
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : Candidates may be subjected to a competency test. No payment of any kind is
required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/179 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROFESSIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES
Cape Winelands District
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured to the
individual’s personal needs).
CENTRE : Cape Winelands District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 4-year Health related National
Diploma/Degree or equivalent registrable with a South African Statutory Health
Professions Council or South African Nursing Council. Experience: Extensive
experience in Strategy and Planning of health services. Management of Quality
Improvement. Management of Health Information Programs. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license and willingness to
travel within the district. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer Literacy
(MS Office: MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Advance managerial
and communication skills (verbal and written). Ability to analyze and interpret
Health System Information and compile and present district plans and reports.
Good leadership and project management skills.
DUTIES : Management of strategy, policy and planning. Co-ordination and Facility
Management (Infrastructure, Maintenance, Engineering and Health
95
Technology) Strategic co-ordination of Quality Improvement initiatives and
programs. Management of the Health Information Program. Supervision of staff
in components Intersectoral collaboration support.
ENQUIRIES : Ms H Liebenberg Tel No: (023) 348- 8100
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test and competency assessment.
The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within Cape
Winelands District Office for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/180 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PHC) (X2 POSTS)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R693 036 per annum
CENTRE : Kwanokuthula CDC (X1 Post)
Khayelethu CC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Post-basic Nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1-year
Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care
(R48) accredited with SANC. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience:
A minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least
5 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable
experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as mentioned
above. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to rotate between PHC
clinics within the Sub-District. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license and
willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Information
management with regards to PHC indicators. Quality assurance knowledge.
COPC Principles and implementation. Legislation of Ideal Clinic and Office of
Health standards and compliance.
DUTIES : Effective integrated execution and management of all clinical programmes (i.e.
Acute, Chronic, Woman and Child Health and TB/HIV/AIDS/STI). Effective
management of Support Services which includes, Information Management
with regards to data collection, verification, report writing and submission of
data, Human Resources (supervision of staff, development and performance
management), Finance and Supply Chain Management to ensure effective
budgeting and control, control over infrastructure, maintenance and security.
Liaise with relevant stakeholders. Effective communication with all levels of
service delivery. Facilitation and implementation of COPC.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PM Peters Tel No: (044) 302 - 8400
APPLICATIONS : Aplications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Garden Route
District for a period of 3 months from the date of the advert. Candidates can be
subjected to a practical/ oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/181 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Laingsburg Clinic
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Post-basic qualification with duration of at least 1-year Diploma in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care (R48),
accredited with SANC. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A minimum of 9
years of appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as mentioned above. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license and willingness to
travel. Willingness to work overtime and to rotate between PHC clinics within
the Sub-District. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Quality assurance
knowledge. COPC Principles and implementation. Legislation of Ideal Clinic
96
and Office of Health standards and compliance. Information management with
regard to PHC indicators.
DUTIES : Effective integrated execution and management of all clinical programmes (i.e.
Acute, Chronic, Woman and Child Health and TB/HIV/AIDS/STI). Effective
management of Support Services which includes, Information Management
with regards to data collection, verification, report writing and submission of
data, Human Resources (supervision of staff, development and performance
management), Finance and Supply Chain Management to ensure effective
budgeting and control, control over infrastructure, maintenance and security.
Liaise with relevant stakeholders. Effective communication with all levels of
service delivery. Facilitation and implementation of COPC.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Samuels Tel No: (023) 814 - 2023
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Central Karoo
District for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be
subjected to a practical/ oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/182 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY AREA: OBSTETRICS)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Ceres Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma or
degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwife. A post basic nursing qualification
with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in Advanced
Midwife and Neonatal Nursing Science. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as
Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A minimum of 9 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate recognisable experience in the
specific specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in
Advanced Midwife and Neonatal Nursing Science. Inherent requirements of
the job: Will be required to work shifts, weekends and public holidays. Will be
required to deliver standby duties for the Hospital Will be on required to deliver
standby duties for Obstetric Theatre cases. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Knowledge and insight
of relevant legislation and policy related to this nursing specialty within the
public sector. Ability to promote quality patient care through the setting,
implementation and monitoring of standards. Effective communication,
interpersonal, leadership, organisational skills, decision making, and conflict
resolution skills.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and guidance towards realization of strategic
goals and objectives of the organization through the implementation of policies,
regulations and professional practices. Managing, planning, co-ordinating and
maintaining Quality patient Care in an Obstetric unit and Outpatient
Department. Quality assurance management by ensuring the implementation
of relevant programmes and practises. Utilize the information management
systems to enhance patient care and service delivery. Effective management
and utilisation of human and financial resources to ensure optimal operational
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Dr ED Titus Tel No: (023) 319-600
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A practical test
and a competency test will form part of the selection process. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within Ceres Hospital,
Witzenberg Sub-district for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/183 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY: ONCOLOGY)
SALARY : R693 036 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A
post-basic nursing qualification with duration of at least one year, accredited
with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Oncology Nursing.
97
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 9 years of
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in
Oncology after obtaining the one-year post-basic qualification in Medical and
Surgical Nursing Science: Oncology Nursing Inherent requirement of the job:
Perform after-hour, weekend and public holiday duties for the department and
the hospital. Night duty hospital allocation as required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Effective communication, interpersonal, leadership,
decision making and conflict resolution skills. Principles of Management:
Supervisory, leadership, problem solving, conflict resolution and
interpersonal/communication skills, ability to function independently as well as
part of the multi-disciplinary team, good organisational skills and the ability to
function under pressure. Knowledge of Nursing legislation related legal and
ethical nursing practices and framework. Human Resources, Labour relations
legislation and Financial Management, including computer literacy (i.e. Ms
Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook).
DUTIES : Provide innovative leadership in the allocated area to realise the strategic goals
and objectives of the Nursing Division. Responsible for the co-ordination and
delivery of quality nursing care within the relevant department; participation and
implementation of audits and planned improvement initiatives. Participate in
formulation, monitoring and implementation of policies, guidelines, standards,
procedures and regulations pertaining to nursing care within the relevant
Department. Provide effective support and management of human, material
and financial resources, as well as Functional Business FBU management
principles. Manage staff performance, training and personal development of
self and subordinates including management of underperformance and
grievances. Collect, provide and use relevant information for the enhancement
of service delivery, including participation in and encouragement of nursing
research and maintain ethical standards as well as promote professional
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Moodley Tel No: (021) 404 2115
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/184 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING GRADE 1 (GENERAL)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape Rehabilitation Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
degree/diploma in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with SANC as a
Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 7 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirements
of the job: Willingness to work weekends, public holidays and relief night-duty
as required. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Knowledge and insight of
relevant legislation and policy related to nursing within the public Sector. Ability
to promote quality patient care through the setting, implementation and
monitoring of standards. Effective interpersonal, leadership, decision making
and conflict resolution skills. Good organisational skills and the ability to
function under pressure. Computer literacy (i.e. MS Word, Excel, Outlook and
PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Supervise and co-ordinate the provision of effective and efficient client care
through adequate excellent quality care. Manage and monitor proper utilisation
of human, financial and physical resources. Participate in analysis, formulation
and implementation of nursing guidelines, practices, standards and
procedures. Maintain professional growth and ethical standards and promote
quality of nursing care. Co- ordinate and monitor the implementation of nursing
care plan and evaluation thereof. Develop and maintain constructive working
relationship with nursing and other stakeholders (i.e. inter-sectorial and
interdisciplinary, inter-departmental teamwork). Ensure that participation in
research related activities are evident in the practice.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. P. Fourie Tel No: (021) 370-2489.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant similar posts within the Chief
98
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/185 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING: (GENERAL)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Reproductive Clinic
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife/Accoucheur. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A minimum of
7 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirements
of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good managerial, supervisory and decision-making skills.
Basic computer skills. Knowledge and insight of legislation and policies,
relevant to current nursing practice within the Public Service. Disciplinary and
conflict management skills.
DUTIES : Supervise the unit and ensure proper utilisation of physical, human and
financial resource in accordance with legislation and policies. Provide
management support, guidance and direction to personnel under her/his
supervision towards the realisation of strategic goals and objectives. Maintain
constructive working relationships with multi-disciplinary teamwork and other
relevant stakeholders. Participate in health promotion initiatives, HAST audits
and contribute to their evaluation and improvement plans.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Diedericks Tel No: (021) 833 5000
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/186 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE)
Chief Directorate: Central Karoo District
SALARY : Grade 1: R505 602 per annum
Grade 2: R619 821 per annum
CENTRE : Laingsburg CC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and midwife.
Post-Basic nursing qualification with duration of at least one-year Diploma in
Clinical Nurse Science, Health Assessment, Treatment and Care (R48)
accredited with the SANC. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience:
Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing
after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification as mentioned above. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to work overtime when necessary and to
work at other clinics in the Sub-district. Competencies (knowledge/ skills):
Good communication skills (verbal and written). NIMART training or
experience. Basic computer skills in (i.e. MS Word, Excel, Outlook). Problem
solving, report writing, liaison and facilitation skills.
DUTIES : Assist with the management of the Burden of disease according to the
comprehensive health programmes. Quality of service Plan and implement
Health Promotion and Prevention activities in facility and Community. Link to
the community structures and NPO’s. Collect data and submit reports. Provide
PHC services to the surrounding communities. Assist with the management of
Human Resources, Finance, SCM, Strategy and Health support and
Infrastructure and equipment management under supervision.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Samuels Tel No: (023) 814 - 2023
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
99
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Curative Skills in Clinical Nursing Science: Health
Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited with the SANC (R48). The pool
of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Central
Karoo District for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be
subjected to a practical/ oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/187 : CHIEF ARTISAN GRADE A
West Coast District
SALARY : R480 261 per annum
CENTRE : West Coast District office, Malmesbury
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Trade Certificate
(Electrical/Millwright/Painting/Carpentry/Plumbing. Experience: A minimum of
at least 10 years appropriate experience after obtaining the Trade Certificate
as an Artisan / Artisan Foreman. Appropriate supervisory / managerial
experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work overtime and
perform standby duties afterhours, weekends and public holidays should the
need arise. Must be physically fit to perform duties as required. Valid Code
(B/EB/EC1) drivers’ license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate
building management experience. Ability to work independently and good
organisational and project management skills. Knowledge of the relevant
legislative prescripts, policies and procedures Computer proficiency in MS
Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook.
DUTIES : Strategic Planning and management of health facilities maintenance needs
and infrastructure projects. Maintenance workshop management. Supervision
of workshop personnel and their workload. Provide input and assistance with
technical specifications. Render sound quality and risk management practices.
Implement strategies to ensure continuous adherence to OHSA and other
legislative frameworks. Draft monthly reports and perform relevant
administrative tasks. General support functions to supervisor and colleagues.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Badenhorst Tel No: (021) 830 3752
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/188 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR GRADE 1 (SOCIAL SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R477 564 per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification in Social Work that
allows for registration with the South African Council for Social Service
Professionals (SACSSP) as a Social Worker. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the South African Council for Social Service
Professions (SACSSP) as Social Worker. Experience: A minimum of 7 years’
appropriate experience in social worker after registration as Social Worker with
SACSSP. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB driver license.
Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Strong understanding of mental health
conditions, treatment modalities, and crisis intervention. Appropriate
supervisory experience. Appropriate experience in psychiatric hospitals. Ability
to provide effective supervision, guidance, and support to social workers.
Excellent communication, active listening, and interpersonal skills to work with
diverse stakeholders. Ability to manage crisis situations, prioritize tasks, and
ensure timely interventions. Understanding diverse cultural backgrounds,
values, and beliefs. Familiarity with relevant laws, regulations, and policies
governing mental health services. Understanding of hospital policies,
procedures, and protocols. Skill in working collaboratively with multidisciplinary
teams, patients, and families. Ability to maintain accurate, thorough, and timely
records. Computer skills (Microsoft office). Ability to capture statistics on
Clinicom.
DUTIES : Provide guidance, support, and oversight to social workers, ensuring high-
quality services to patients and families. Collaborate with social workers to
assess complex cases, develop treatment plans, and provide crisis
intervention. Lead and coordinate social work teams, promoting effective
communication, collaboration, and teamwork. Develop, implement, and
monitor policies and procedures related to social work services. -Identify areas
100
for quality improvement and implement initiatives to enhance patient care and
outcomes. Effective communication and collaboration with multidisciplinary
teams, patients, and families. Accurate, thorough, and timely reports, records,
and documentation. Provide training, mentorship, and professional
development opportunities for social workers. Develop and maintain
relationships with community resources, organizations, and stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ntathu Mfiki Tel No: (021) 3701403
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/189 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE: (SPECIALTY CRITICAL CARE) (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observartory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425(Degree/Diploma in nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with SANC as Professional
Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year,
accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical
Care Nursing: General. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum
of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the
specific specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as
mentioned above. Inherent requirements of the job: To work shifts and after-
hours including weekends, public holidays and night duty. To rotate to other
departments within the Critical Care units. Competencies (knowledge/ skills):
Sound knowledge and understanding of nursing and health service-related
acts, legislation, policies and practices. Problem solving, report writing, liaison
and facilitation skills. Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook and
use of Internet. Ability to lift and turn patients, stand for long hours and lift heavy
equipment.
DUTIES : Provide an optimal, holistic, specialised Nursing Care within set standards and
within a professional, legal framework as a Professional Nurse in Critical Care
units. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilise human, material and physical resources efficiently and
effectively. Participate in research and training and development of community,
staff and students to achieve optimal health care of Critical Care patients.
Deliver an effective outreach service. Assist with administrative duties, e.g.
data collation and reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Peters Tel No: (021) 404-5082
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : “Candidates who are not in possession of the required qualifications will be
appointed into the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the
necessary qualifications within a predetermined period of time. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification. The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant
posts within Groote Schuur Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/190 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY) TRAUMA &
EMERGENCY
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : MHS Victoria Hospital
101
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
degree/diploma in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least one year
accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science in Critical
Care Nursing: Trauma and Emergency or Medical and Surgical Nursing
Science in Critical Care Nursing: General. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Experience: Grade 1: A Minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registrationas a Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science
in Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and Emergency or Medical and Surgical
Nursing Science in Critical Care Nursing: General. Competencies (knowledge/
skills): Extensive knowledge of practices or regimes within the relevant
disciplines. Excellent verbal and written communication skills. Ability to work
effectively within a multi-disciplinary team. Analytical and Critical thinking
abilities within an Emergency Room setting. Application of knowledge, skills
and behavior to complete tasks accurately as well as maintaining high standard
of care in managing care.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care within the professional,
ethical and legal framework and work as part of the multi-disciplinary team.
Effective utilization of all resources. Provide support to Nursing Services
ensuring quality productivity. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards
and self-development. Participation in training, including mentoring and
research.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs MAT Dubru-Shunmugam: email: Mary.Dubru@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the required qualification will be appointed into
the general stream and they will be required to obtain the necessary
qualification within predetermined period of time. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be conspired for appointment on condition that proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification. The pool of applicants will be considered for other vacant
posts within the Department for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/191 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE: GRADE 1 TO 2 SPECIALTY (PSYCHIATRY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Klipfontein / Mitchells Plain Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
Diploma/Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse with
Psychiatry. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year
accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse and Psychiatry. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum
of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in
Psychiatry after obtaining the one year post-basic qualification as mentioned
above. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license.
Willingness to consult patients at different facilities within the Sub-district.
Ability to consult with clients who require mental health counselling.
Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Good interpersonal and communication
skills. Computer literate (Microsoft Office). Knowledge of and insight into
relevant legislation and policies related to mental illness.
DUTIES : Actively participate in the clinical management and nursing care to patients
with Mental Health problems within the Sub-district. Provide support and
capacity development to PHC personnel for Sub-district level services and
students and peers. Promote community development and participation in
102
mental health care delivery. Liaise with other role players. Conduct research
related to mental health and service delivery. Effective utilization of human,
material and physical resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Patel-Abrahams Tel No: (021)370-5000
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification: in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for other vacant Professional Nurse (Specialty: Psychiatry)
posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3
months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/192 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 OT 2 (SPECIALTY: ONCOLOGY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A
post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited
with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Oncology.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the
specific specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as
mentioned above. Inherent requirements of the job: Work shifts and after-hours
including weekends, public holidays and night duty. -Rotate to other
departments within the oncology unit. Competencies (knowledge/ skills):
Sound knowledge and understanding of nursing and health service-related
acts, legislation, policies and practices. Problem solving, report writing, liaison
and facilitation skills. Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook and
use of Internet. Ability to lift and turn patients, stand for long hours and lift heavy
equipment.
DUTIES : Provide an optimal, holistic, specialised Nursing Care within set standards and
within a professional, legal framework as a Professional Nurse in Oncology
wards/units. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and
other stakeholders. Utilise human, material and physical resources efficiently
and effectively. Participate in research and training and development of
community, staff and students to achieve optimal health care and rehabilitation
of Oncology patients. Deliver an effective outreach service. Assist with
administrative duties, e.g. data collation and reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Moodley Tel No: (021) 404 2115
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in the post basic qualification in: Medical & Surgical Nursing
Science: Oncology Nursing: General. The pool of applicants will be considered
for similar vacant posts within Groote Schuur Hospital for a period of 3 months
from date of advert. Short-listed candidates may be subjected to a compulsory
competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
103
POST 24/193 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: MENTAL HEALTH)
(X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Southern/Western Sub-structure (X1 Post)
Kensington CDC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse with
Psychiatry. A post–basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least one
year, accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse and Psychiatry. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum
of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in
Psychiatry after obtaining the one-year post-basic qualification as mentioned
above. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. To
perform relief duties within the Southern-Western district. Competencies
(knowledge/ skills): Good interpersonal and communication skills. Computer
literate (Microsoft Office). Knowledge of and insight into relevant legislation and
policies related to mental illness.
DUTIES : Actively participate in the clinical management and nursing care to patients
with Mental Health problems within the Sub-district. Provide support and
capacity development to PHC personnel for Sub-district level services and
students and peers. Promote community development and participation in
mental health care delivery. Liaise with other role players. Conduct research
related to mental health and service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Deidre Poole Tel No: (021) 2020 0944
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : “Candidates who are not in possession of the required qualifications will be
appointed into the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the
necessary qualifications within a predetermined period of time. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/194 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: PSYCHIATRY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse with
Psychiatry. A post-basic, nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 (one)
year accredited with SANC in Advanced Psychiatry Nursing Science.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registered with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and Psychiatry. Experience:
Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing
after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Grade 2: A minimum
of 14 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse. At least 10 years of the period referred
to above must be appropriate recognizable experience in the specific specialty
after obtaining the 1 year post basic qualification as mentioned above. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts, night duty, overtime, public
holidays and weekends. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of
relevant legislation and policies of the Department of Health Western Cape.
Ability to communicate effectively (both written and verbal). Computer literacy
(MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Skills to plan, organise and
coordinate the service by analysing, problem solving and decision making.
Leadership towards the realisation of strategic goals and objectives of the
104
Psychiatric Department. Ability to function independently, as well as in a multi-
disciplinary team to ensure good patient care.
DUTIES : Provide optimal, holistic specialized psychiatric nursing care within set
standards and professional/legal framework. Effective utilization of human,
financial and physical resources (equipment and consumables). Participation
in appropriate personal /professional development activities: Self, students,
and other categories of staff. Ensure efficient and accurate documentation,
statistical data collection capturing, and participation in research activities.
Assist with the development and implementation of nursing quality
improvement plans, policies, and standard operating procedures. Display of
core values of the Department of Health & Wellness in the WCH. In the
execution of duties, while practicing within the legislation, regulations and
protocols applicable to public service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Smith Tel No: (021) 860-2839/Emily.Smith@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in the post basic qualification in: Advanced Psychiatric Nursing
Science with the South African Nursing Council. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Paarl Hospital for a period of 3
months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/195 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in patient administration, revenue
collection and information management in a hospital environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies
(knowledge/ skills): In depth Knowledge of the PFMA, Hospital Fees
Memorandum Chapter 18, including patient administrative related policies,
Handling of state monies and receipts, procedures, practices and (UPFS)
Uniform Patient Fee Schedule. Computer literacy in MS Package. Practical
workable knowledge of ARS (Accounts Receivable System), BAS (Basic
Accounting System) and Hospital Information Systems. Excellent interpersonal
and communication skills with a strong sense of responsibility. Excellent
Leadership skills and the ability to manage and coordinate a large component.
The ability to interpret and analyse management reports as well as excellent
report writing skills.
DUTIES : Manage the overall performance of the Patient Administration, Revenue and
Information Management Components. Responsible to implement and
maintain internal controls and improvement plans in the various components
to ensure compliance with the relevant Finance Instructions, Prescripts and
Revenue Notices. Provide strategic input to minimising financial risk and
optimise revenue collection at the Hospital. Ensuring quality monthly reporting
is completed and submitted timeously for the various components. Ensuring
effective Human Resource Management practices and processes are in place:
Disciplinary Procedures, Supervision Structures, Leave Management,
Performance Evaluations and Monitoring of the staff within various
components.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Cajada Tel No: (021) 402 6594
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/196 : GISC TECHNOLOGIST PRODUCTION GRADE A TO C
Directorate: Health Intelligence
SALARY : Grade A: R453 576 per annum
Grade B: R513 303 per annum
Grade C: R586 665 per annum
105
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (Provincial Health Data Centre)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: 4-year B degree in GISc (NQF Level 7) or
relevant qualification. Registration with a professional council: Compulsory
registration with PLATO as a GISc Professional on appointment. Experience:
Grade A: 3-year post qualification experience in a GISc, data management and
information. management environment. Grade B: 14 years’ appropriate
recognizable experience in an area after registration with PLATO. Grade C: 26
years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in an area after registration with
PLATO. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid code B/EB driver’s license.
Ability to travel within the Western Cape Province and overnight. (if and when
required). Willingness to work extended hours based on operational
requirements / service delivery needs. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Proficiency in Geographic Information Systems (ESRI ArcGIS desktop
software). Knowledge and understanding of geographic information systems,
relational database technology, spatial modelling and analyses, standards, and
related policies/acts. Advanced knowledge of data management, information,
and communication technology systems. Project management, presentation
and report writing skills. Ability to think strategically, innovate, work
independently, and demonstrate leadership in complex applications.
Experience and proficiency with scripting languages such as Python, Rstudio,
SQL, ArcPy, JavaScript, HTML and Power BI is essential.
DUTIES : Conduct spatial data analysis, create maps, reports, and automate processes
using programming languages such as R, SQL, Python, JavaScript, and ArcPy.
Collaborating with GIS and non-geospatial staff members across the
Department to assist in project prioritization to meet organizational needs,
including data updates, workflow development and processing of a variety of
data and mapping requests. Coordinate and facilitate GIS implementation,
system audit, requirements analysis and implementation of GIS standards.
Produce maps showing the spatial distribution of various kinds of data.
Contribute technically on large and complex projects, using cutting-edge data,
simulation, technology and innovative designs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Zinyakatira, Email: Nesbert.Zinyakatira@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A competency
test may form part of the selection process.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/197 : GRAPHIC DESIGNER
Directorate: Communication
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National degree or
diploma in Graphic Design. Experience: Appropriate experience in graphic
design, photography, videography and visual content creation in a corporate or
public sector setting. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (EB) driver’s
license. Willingness to travel and work after hours. High levels of computer
literacy (MS Office / Office365). Adobe Creative Cloud proficiency essential
(InDesign, Illustrator, Premiere Pro, After Effects). Creativity, innovation, and
strong interpersonal skills. Detail orientation and high-quality delivery under
pressure. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to create compelling visual
assets for social media, print and web. Experience with video editing and
content design for internal and public platforms. Understanding of brand
management and alignment of visual content with strategic messaging. Team
collaboration and contribution to content brainstorming and production cycles.
Adaptability and initiative in a fast-paced communication environment.
DUTIES : Design visually engaging content for social media, web, print and internal
platforms. Collaborate with the communication and brand teams to align
visuals with campaign goals. Assist with video editing and multimedia projects.
Maintain brand consistency across all design and communication outputs.
Contribute to creative development and stay updated with design trends.
Develop templates and basic layout work to support day-to-day communication
needs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Evans Tel No: (021) 483-3080
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
106
POST 24/198 : CHIEF INDUSTRIAL TECHNICIAN (CLINICAL ENGINEERING:
ELECTRONICS WORKSHOP)
Clinical Engineering Goodwood, Electronics section
SALARLY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: National Diploma in Electrical (LC)
Engineering (T; S or N stream), or registration as an Engineering Technician
in terms of the Engineering Profession of South Africa Act (Act 46 of 2000).
Experience: Appropriate maintenance experience after qualification on
electronic medical and related equipment repairs. Inherent requirement of the
job: Valid driver’s license (Code B/EB) and willing to travel throughout the
Western Cape. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Proven knowledge of health
technology principles. Ability to compile technical specifications for medical
equipment. Excellent ability to do faultfinding on equipment. Proven experience
computer literacy (i.e. MS Word, Excel). Advanced knowledge of managing,
planning and organizing maintenance schedules. Product specific technical
training.
DUTIES : Carry out advanced maintenance, repairs, calibration, modifications and
installations of medical (electronic) equipment. Train junior technicians and
users on equipment. Ensuring that the equipment meets legal and safety
requirements of the manufacturers and statutory bodies. Perform all
administrative functions as required by the Clinical Engineering Department,
managers and health. Technology prescripts while ensuring compliance with
the Occupational Health and Safety Act of 1993. Liaison with hospital and
private sector staff while reporting to the manager of the relevant workshop.
Manage the workshop in the absence of manager in charge of relevant
workshop and be willing to work within all Clinical Engineering disciplines
background, criminal, qualification, credit and driver's license verification.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Padayachee Tel No: (021) 590 5008
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a competency test on day of
interview and will also need to sign a form allowing.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/199 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE (SUNDRY CREDITORS)
SALARLY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Childrens’ Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Finance that focuses on the
Key Performance Areas of the post. Appropriate experience and skills in BAS
(Basic Accounting System), LOGIS, or other appropriate Financial Systems
and PERSAL. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Relevant knowledge, skills
and experience of financial systems, processes, procedures, prescripts and
legislative framework (PFMA, NTR’s, etc.). Knowledge of BAS, PERSAL and
LOGIS. Knowledge of Annual Financial Statements. Knowledge of budget,
expenditure and suspense accounts. Computer literacy. Knowledge of and
ability to apply the Disciplinary Code. Ability to analyse and provide solutions
to problems. In-depth knowledge of SCOA codes and reports on LOGIS / BAS.
Good leadership and managerial skills. Ability to work under pressure and
independently. Supervisory experience.
DUTIES : Support the Assistant Director: Finance in executing the hospital’s strategic
objective. Effectively manage the Creditors section to achieve its goals and
targets. Ensure timeous and accurate reporting with regards to the Annual
Financial Statements. Interpret, apply and ensure compliance of financial
policies, regulations and instructions as practiced in the Public Sector. Do
quarterly evaluations and give training to personnel. Authorize transactions on
LOGIS and BAS. Manage the performance and development of staff. Effective
handling of computer systems such as LOGIS and/or BAS. Maintain and clear
Assets and Liabilities accounts. Manage and maintain debtor accounts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms H van Graan Tel No: (021) 658-5007
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/200 : CASE MANAGER
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Ceres Hospital
107
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year health related
National Diploma/Degree or equivalent registrable with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) or South African Nursing Council (SANC).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Case Manager. Inherent requirement of
the job: A Code (B/EB) valid driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of the Uniform Patient Fees Schedule, Hospital Information
Systems and EDI (Electronic Data Interchange). Knowledge of the Medical Aid
Act 131 of 1998 and the application of Prescribed Minimum Benefit (PMB)
legislation i.e. the Chronic Disease List (CDL) and the Diagnostic Treatment
Pairs (DTP).
DUTIES : Responsible for the management and implementation of Case Management
policies, protocol and procedures in the hospital. Perform operational Case
Management functions inclusive of pre-authorization and clinical review to
ensure compliance with Case Management policies and procedures. Conduct
clinical audits of patient accounts to ensure accuracy of invoices for submission
to medical aid and state departments and the provision of quotes. Provide
support to the hospital Fees Department in terms of follow-up of outstanding
medical scheme and state department balances, account queries and provide
quotations to H2, H3 and Foreign patients. Assist with EDI rejections to ensure
timeous submission of medical scheme invoices. Assist Hospital Management
in the distribution of Quality Client Care and compilation of statistical reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MC Wessels Tel No: (023) 316-9602
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A practical test
may form part of the interview process. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Ceres Hospital for a period of 3
months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/201 : CASE MANAGER
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year health related
National Diploma/Degree registrable with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa (HPCSA) or South African Nursing Council (SANC). Experience:
Appropriate experience in liaison with medical aid (funders) and managed care
organisations with regards to MHC policies, protocols, optimal fund utilisation
and updated clinical information. Appropriate experience in Case
Management/Medical Aid Environment. Appropriate experience in ICD 10
codes assigned. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Knowledge of the Uniform
Patient Fees Schedule, Hospital Information Systems and EDI (Electronic Data
Interchange). Knowledge of Medical Aid Act 131 of 1998 and the application of
Prescribed Minimum Benefit (PMB) legislation i.e. the Chronic Disease List
(CDL) and the Diagnostic Treatment Pairs (DTP). Ability to work with MS Excel
and Web-based Programmes (medical aids). Ability to link patient diagnosis
with procedure codes.
DUTIES : Perform hospital Case Management functions wrt authorisation, benefit
management, and review of clinical information for externally funded clients.
Co-ordinate the workflow process between clinical and admin personnel
supporting various role players within the hospital wrt ICD-10 codes, prescribed
minimum benefits and account queries. Conduct clinical audits of Medical Aids
and State Department, eg. RAF and COIDA to ensure accuracy of invoices.
Implement Case Management policies, protocols and procedures within the
hospital. Provide quotations to privately funded and foreign patients and
compile statistical reports. Supervision of staff and liaison with relevant role
players in matters relating to Case Management. Relief colleagues.
ENQUIRIES : MR TJ Langenhoven Tel No: (021) 404 2358.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for these posts. Candidates
will be subjected to a competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/202 : SOCIAL WORKER GRADE 1 TO 4
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R325 200 per annum
Grade 2: R397 119 per annum
Grade 3: R477 564 per annum
Grade 4: R585 441 per annum
CENTRE : Klipfontein / Mitchells Plain Sub-structure Office
108
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Bachelor’s degree in Social
Work (or equivalent) qualification. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP) as Social Worker. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate experience in Social Work after registration
as Social Worker with SACSSP. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as Social Worker with SACSSP.
Grade 4: A minimum of 30 years appropriate experience in Social Work after
registration as Social Worker with SACSSP. Inherent requirements of the job:
Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Provide an after-hour service over
weekends and public holidays. Willingness to work in any department in the
community health Centre and counseling of patient defaulters. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the psycho-social implications and
therapeutic skills regarding illness and disease. Good administrative and
computer literacy skills. Knowledge and experience in crisis intervention work.
DUTIES : Specialist service delivery in designated clinical area. Maintain a proper
Administration system and effectively manage the physical resources.
Education and training of professional self, staff and students and research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Hull Tel No: (021) 370-5000
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This
concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the first
time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status). The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant Pharmacist Assistant Post Basic
posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3
months from date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical
and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/203 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Personnel Administration (i.e. Salary
administration, Service Conditions, Personnel Management and Recruitment
and Selection). Appropriate supervisory experience. Competencies
(knowledge/ skills): Knowledge of People Management legislation and policies
with the ability to understand and provide advice on policies. Abilities to
function effectively within a team environment with or without supervision.
Computer literacy in MS Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook) Appropriate
PERSAL experience.
DUTIES : Manage all Human Resource related functions within the HR Department in
conjunction with the Senior Administrative Officer. Supervise Administration
Clerks to ensure effective functioning of the Personnel Administration Section.
Administer and ensure effective and efficient implementation of Human
Resource Management policies and prescripts. Approve PERSAL
transactions. Train and develop sub-ordinates. Train all occupational groups at
the institution regarding HR matters. Handle all appointments, service
termination, salary administration, PILLIR, RWOEE, WCA and general service
conditions, auditing of leave and personnel files, debt management, pension
administration and management of paysheets and commuted overtime. Assist
to maintain PM databases. Ensure effective and efficient Recruitment and
Selection processes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr ZR Zakhe Tel No: (021) 370 1246
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to an written/practical and oral assessment. The
pool of applicants will be considered for similar posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
109
POST 24/204 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (NURSING GENERAL) FEMALE
WARD) (X1 POST), QUALITY ASSURANCE (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, night duty, public
holiday, and be on call. Willingness to rotate to different wards according to
operational requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of
Nursing Care processes and procedures of the Nursing Act. Problem solving,
decision-making, and good interpersonal skills. Report writing skills. Health
promotion and team building.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(Clinical practice/quality patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria,
and indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and
health care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and
health care. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human, material, and physical resources efficiently and
effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs MM Luphondo Tel No: (021) 902 8010/57
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. "Candidates,
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before of the interview. This concession is only applicable on
health professionals who must apply for the first time for registration in a
specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be
considered for other vacant Professional Nurse General posts within the Chief
Director: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/205 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING) (X3
POSTS)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Lainsgburg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Basic computer skill in Ms Word. The ability
to function independently under pressure, as well as in a multi-disciplinary team
to ensure good patient care. Knowledge of Nursing Practices, Infection
Prevention Control, control measures and practices. Excellent communication
skills (both written and verbal).
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice or patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria, and
indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and health
110
care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health
care. Maintain constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human, material, and physical resources efficiently and
effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Samuels Tel No: (023) 814 - 2015
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Central Karoo District for a period of
3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a practical/written
assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/206 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Metro TB Hospital Complex
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in information management in the
Department of Health and Wellness information systems. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies
(knowledge/ skills): Computer literacy and proficiency. Knowledge of hospital
operations, business process analysis, mapping, modelling and re-
engineering. Knowledge of health information policies and software i.e
CLINICOM, TIER.Net, SINJANI, JAC Pharmacy, SPV, ECCR, SPV, Business
intelligence, Ideal Hospital and DHIS Microsoft 365 E-mail communication,
Excel, Word, PowerPoint and SharePoint.
DUTIES : Provide training to end users. Facilitate communication between end users,
management and clinical components, external stakeholders and engage in
joint planning. System Implementation, stabilization, and optimization End user
support. Information management reporting and data governance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Sonnie Tel No: (021) 508-7403
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/207 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST BASIC) GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R264 750 per annum
Grade 2: R306 411 per annum
Grade 3: R330 540 per annum
CENTRE : Inzame Zabantu Community Day Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: A qualification that allows registration with
the SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) Institutional, as required by
the training facility and the South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC).
Registration with a Professional Council: Current registration with the SAPC as
Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) Institutional. Experience: Grade 1: Grade 1:
None after registration with the SAPC as Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic).
Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist
Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the
SAPC. Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist
Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the
SAPC.
DUTIES : Dispensing and capturing of prescriptions under supervision of pharmacists.
Counselling the patients. Receiving stock from supplier and capturing thereof.
Ordering and issuing of stock. Manufacturing of mixtures under the supervision
of the pharmacist. Support and assist pharmacist.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Roomanay Tel No: (021) 370-5000
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
111
appointments on condition that proof of application for registration with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This
concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the first
time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status). The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant Pharmacist Assistant Post Basic
posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3
months from date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical
and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/208 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST-BASIC) GRADE 1 TO 3 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R264 750 per annum
Grade 2: R306 411 per annum
Grade 3: R330 540 per annum
CENTRE : False Bay Hospital and Du Noon CHC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: As required by the training facility and the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) plus Post-Basic Pharmacist Assistant
qualification that allows registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant
(Post-Basic). Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
SAPC as a Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post-Basic). Experience: Grade 1: None
after registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post-Basic).
Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist
Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the
SAPC. Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist
Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the
SAPC. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good computer literacy. Good Interpersonal
and communication skills. Ability to work as part of a team or independently.
Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Perform the following services or acts under the direct personal supervision of
a pharmacist: Assist with reading and preparation of a prescription, the
selection, manipulation or compounding of the medicine, the labelling and
supply of the medicine in an appropriate container following the interpretation
and evaluation of the prescription by a pharmacist. Assist with the provision of
instructions regarding the correct use of medicine supplied and information to
individuals to promote health. Assist with the distribution, control of and
ordering of medicine and scheduled substances. Assist with the compounding
or manufacturing of a non-sterile or sterile medicine or scheduled substance
according to a formula and standard operating procedures approved. Assist
with general housekeeping and administrative tasks. Support facilities with
managing and expanding chronic medicine access through all differentiated
models of care e.g. home deliveries of chronic medicine.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Christel Van Zyl Tel No: (021) 782 1121 – False Bay Hospital.Ms Susanna
Grobler Tel No: (021) 200 4501 – Du Noon CHC
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
registered in the category “Community Pharmacy” may also apply but must be
willing to obtain registration in the category “Institutional Pharmacy” within 12
months and must work under direct supervision of a pharmacist during this
period. Failure to comply will lead to the termination of services in the case of
those appointed from outside the public service. In the case of serving
employees, the employee will return to his/her previous post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant similar posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
-“Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This
concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the first
time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status).”
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
112
POST 24/209 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competence that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Inherent requirement of the job:
Willingness to rotate within Supply Chain Section and relieve colleagues when
required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Applied knowledge of the
Accounting Officer’s System and SCM Delegations of the Department.
Computer literacy in MS Office. Knowledge of the PFMA, National and
Provincial Treasury Instructions and Accounting Officer System.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Ensure accurate stock control. i.e. Verify stock
levels and maintain minimum and maximum levels. Manage inventory
effectively in terms of storage, cleanliness, and safe keeping of items. Ensure
proper Asset Management i.e. Planning, Maintaining, Movements, Disposals
and Stocktaking are performed. Work on LOGIS & Institutions systems. Assist
with compiling and management of Annual Procurement Plan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Mdodeni Tel No: (021) 370 1125
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/210 : STERILIZATION OPERATOR: SUPERVISOR (CENTRAL STERILE
SERVICE DEPARTMENT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Service
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Mowbray Maternity Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC) / Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in Sterilisation
and Decontamination Services as an Operator in a hospital environment.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, weekends, public
holidays, and night duty when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Must have numeracy skills and should be able to think analytically. Ability to
supervise and be assertive. Sound knowledge of sterilisation and gas
sterilisation practices and Decontamination processes. Computer literacy.
Independent effective decision making and problem-solving skills within the
limits of the Public Sector policy framework.
DUTIES : Manage, organise and control of Central Sterile Services Department. Human
resource management of the Central Sterile Services Department. Financial
resource management of Central Sterile Services Department. Infrastructure
management of Central Sterile Services Department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Nqwede Tel No: (021) 659-4952
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for other vacant similar posts within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/211 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: REGISTRY
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate knowledge and practical experience of medical
records. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to rotate and relieve in
the Medical Records and Archives. Prepared to work 12-hour shifts including
night duty, Overtime, weekends and Public Holidays. Willingness to work
scheduled hours according to operational needs of the Hospital. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge and practical experience of Patient Records
Management. Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, and Ms Outlook). Good
interpersonal skills. Innovative, hardworking, able to work under pressure and
ability to organise and manage time.
113
DUTIES : Issue and receive folders, clinical notes and X-rays. Timeous Filling of patient
documents and medical folders. Issuing of folders to all the requestors and
other colleagues as well as other Hospitals. Data capturing on Clinicom or any
computerised systems. Assist with sorting folders, x-rays, and patient
documentation. Destroy (culling), on a daily basis old folders and x-rays
according to the Departmental Circulars and Archives Acts. Attending relevant
queries (verbal and written) and performing related administrative tasks as
instructed by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Dunjwa Tel No: (021) 918-1372
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other similar posts within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services for a period of 3 months from the date of the advert.
Shortlisted Candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral
assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/212 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
(PROCUREMENT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 312 per annum
CENTRE : Metro TB Hospital Complex
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate Supply Chain
Management experience including Procurement of Goods and Services.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code E/EB Driver’s License.
Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel
and PowerPoint). Ability to function independently as well as in a multi-
disciplinary team. Good communication and interpersonal skills. Knowledge of
LOGIS, ESL (Essential Supplier List) and Electronic Procurement System
systems. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), National,
Provincial Treasury, Regulations and Policies. Knowledge of Supply Chain
Management and Finance administrative processes.
DUTIES : Demand and Acquisitioning of goods and services including drafting of
specifications and conducting site meetings. Ensure Audit Compliance.
Internal control and Supply Chain Management Reporting. Support to
Supervisor, Team and end users in terms of procurement related queries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Silwanyana Tel No: (021) 508-7451
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/213 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: REGISTRY
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate medical records experience in a health environment.
Inherent requirement of the job: Willing and able to perform overtime hours
when required Must be physically able to lift heavy loads and perform long
hours on your feet. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the HIS
Clinicom Tracking system, proven knowledge of medical records processes
and procedures. Knowledge of National/Provincial Archiving Act. Ability to work
independently with the minimum supervision and effectively within a team.
Ability to work with a high degree of accuracy and care under pressure. High
ethical standards as incumbent will have access to confidential files. Computer
literacy in the MS package.
DUTIES : Render an effective and efficient medical records service and folder
management. Complete relevant Clinicom Case Note Tracking system
transactions. Create and maintain an effective filing system. Accurately and
timeously file and retrieve all requested patient folders or case notes. Maintain
filing banks and patient folder covers. Ensuring that culling and archiving of
folders are done routinely and in line with policy.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Abrahams Tel No: (021) 402-6340
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
114
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The
pool of applicants will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the
Chief Director: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/214 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HRD (PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT)
Directorate: People Development
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Matric (Senior Certificate). Experience:
Appropriate experience Expanded Public Works Programme Reporting
System. Appropriate experience integrated Grant for Provinces
implementation. Inherent requirement of the job: Ability to travel widely within
the Western Cape and a valid Code B/EB driver’s license. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge and understanding Expanded Public
Works Programme Reporting System. Sound knowledge and understanding of
the principles of Incentive Grant for Provinces implementation.
DUTIES : Support People Development with the implementation of the Expanded Public
Works Programme. Ensure processes are in place to meet EPWPRS targets
as set by NDPW. Representative at all Social Sector engagements. Facilitate
implementation and monitoring of Incentive Grant for Provinces. Administrative
assistance in the input, collation, storing and manipulation of data related to
People Development and related programmes. Maintain databases to collate,
store and manipulate data to strengthen implementation and monitoring
systems.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Peters Tel No: (021) 483 3785
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/215 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in a Fees-related environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: Must be willing to work shifts (night duty, weekends,
and public holidays) and rotate between departments. Competencies
(knowledge/ skills): Good communication skills (verbal and written). Computer
literacy. Knowledge of Hospital Fees Memorandum 18, UPFS, HIS, Clinicom,
Billing and Finance instructions. Strong sense of confidentiality.
DUTIES : Accurate patient assessments and admissions on Clinicom and updating
Hectis System. Raising invoices as per Hospital Fees policies. Manage busy
telephone. Debit Charge Entries to Invoices as per UPFS and PGWC billing
procedures. Handling of state money. Covering for colleagues and undertaking
various other clerical duties as and when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Swartz Tel No: (021) 404 2333
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates my be required to attend a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/216 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (STORES)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Inherent requirements of the job:
Rotate within the Supply Chain Section and relieve colleagues. Experience:
Appropriate experience in a Supply Chain environment and/or within Health
Sector Commodities. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Computer literacy (i.e.
MS Word, Excel, Power Point and Outlook). Sound communication,
organisational and interpersonal skills. Knowledge of Supply Chain
Management processes, PFMA and the Accounting Officers System.
Knowledge of LOGIS, EPS and ESL.
115
DUTIES : Demand and acquisition (i.e. assist with identifying procurement plan items and
ESL). Source quotations: Advertise requests on EPS to source quotations,
perform an SCM evaluation of such quotes and guide users on how to
evaluate. Generate and place orders with suppliers and maintain filing and
complete adjudication of awarded orders on EPS.P Prepare documentation for
quotation committee meetings. Ensure that all transactions comply with
legislative requirements. Handle telephonic and written enquiries from
Directorates and Suppliers and perform relief duties within SCM component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Jacobs Tel No: (023) 348-1106
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Worcester Regional Hospital for a
period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/217 : SENIOR SECURITY OFFICER
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate or equivalent
qualification. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with PSIRA
at the level of Grade A. Experience: Appropriate experience as a Security
Supervisor. Appropriate Security Control Room operator experience.
Appropriate CCTV surveillance systems operator experience. Contract
Management experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
or higher driver’s license. Physically fit. Willingness to work shifts as set out
and be available on a 24-hour basis. Must be prepared to rotate and be
allocated to various buildings of the Hospital. Must be prepared to undergo a
NIA security clearance. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good written and
verbal communication skills. Knowledge of relevant prescripts, regulations and
procedures. Ability to write reports. Computer literacy (Windows and Ms Word).
CCTV surveillance and control room practice.
DUTIES : Supervise security control room and general staff management and liaise with
management. Office administration: compile rosters, administer leave,
performance monitoring, allocate duties, discipline of subordinates. Ensure
Access/Egress Control is exercised effectively and efficiently. Ensure effective
patrolling of the buildings' parking areas and the perimeter. Contract
compliance, monitoring and management of Private Security in terms of the
SLA. Conduct investigations and complaints with regards to thefts,
undermining activities, unauthorized entries. Liaise with the SAPS and all other
law enforcement agencies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V.P. September Tel No: (021) 938-6077
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/218 : FORENSIC PATHOLOGY OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 2
Chief Directorate: Emergency Clinical Services Support
(Contract until 31 March 2026)
SALARY : Grade 1: R217 092 per annum
Grade 2: R252 840 per annum
CENTRE : Observatory Forensic Pathology Institute (OFPI)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate with having achieved
Mathematics, Life Science and/ or Biology as passed subjects. Experience:
Grade 1: None. Grade 2: 10 years' appropriate experience. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver's license. Ability to interpret
and apply policies. Ability to work with and lift corpses (mutilated, decomposed,
infectious viruses, obese). Be willing to work shifts and overtime. Computer
and software literacy. Will be required to deliver testimony in court proceedings.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to communicate clearly and discreetly
in person and in writing. Ability to be trained in 4X4 Vehicle handling. Ability to
be trained in photography. Willingness to assist with duties in an X-ray room.
Willingness to be trained in Forensic Investigation and Dissection. Willingness
to be trained in Forensic Pathology Business Processes. Appropriate Forensic
Pathology Service experience. Ability to achieve and maintain good
interpersonal and working relations with staff and clients.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient recovery, storage and processing of deceased. An
effective Forensic autopsy process rendered in accordance with set standards
116
and guidelines. -Optimal control of reports and statements during and after the
Forensic Mortuary process. An effective and efficient Management of Unknown
corpses. An efficient support service to the Manager with regard to Corporate
and Clinical Governance functions of the Observatory Forensic Pathology
Institute.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. RH Pietersen (Richard.Pietersen@westerncape.gov.za)
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical and driver's test. Candidates will be
subjected to a security clearance prior to appointment.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/219 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (X4 POSTS)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Kylemore Clinic (X1 Post)
Franshoek Dorp Mobile (X1 Post)
Franshoek Groendal CDC (X1 Post)
Cloetesville CDC (X1 Post), Stellenbosch Sub-District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Staff Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with the South African Nursing Council as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1:
None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable nursing
experience after registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job:
Valid (code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to travel to and support other
clinics in the sub-district when needed and willing to work on the mobile health
clinic bus. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Ability to function/make decisions
independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good communication
and interpersonal relationships. Knowledge of relevant nursing legislation,
policies and protocols of the Department of Health, Western Cape.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care to all patients. Provide
basic clinical nursing care. Effective utilisation of human and financial
resources within the limited budget constraints. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MM Muller Tel No: (021) 808-6109
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be required to do a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Stellenbosch Sub District for a period
of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/220 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Service
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Staff Nurse. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience:
Grade 1: None Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Staff Nurse with the SANC. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Staff Nurse with the SANC. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty, weekends, and public holidays
to meet the operational requirements. Must be prepared to assist in all
117
departments according to operational requirements. Competencies
(knowledge/ skills): Effective communication skills and interpersonal skills.
Knowledge of nursing processes & procedures as outlined in Nursing, Health
related & Public service legislation, regulations & policies. Function within the
team and facilitate on the level of the post.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care. Provide basic clinical
nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and financial resources. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs KP Tukutezi Tel No: (021) 370 1274
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. “Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be
considered for other similar posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/221 : HOUSEKEEPING SUPERVISOR
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training certificate
(GETC) /Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in hospital
cleaning services. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work
overtime, shifts (day and night duty), including weekends and public holidays.
Physically fit to lift heavy objects, push heavy food trolleys, bend down and stay
on feet for long hours. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication
and interpersonal skills. Good organisational, leadership and supervisory skills.
Must be able to handle and manage conflict and discipline. Knowledge of
hospital environmental hygiene, infection prevention and control and
management of hospital linen and waste.
DUTIES : Responsible for ensuring and maintaining of high standards of environmental
cleanliness and hygiene within the wards and patient areas. Effective use,
maintenance and safekeeping of supplies and equipment. Responsible for
management and supervision of personnel. Responsible for management and
control of ward linen, waste management, collection and distribution of food to
the wards. Participate in training and development initiatives. Provision of
support to management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Govender Tel No: (021) 918-1277
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other similar posts within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services for a period of 3 months from the date of the advert.
Shortlisted Candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral
assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/222 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate experience and knowledge of: Hospital mechanical plant
equipment, Carpentry, Electrical, Painting, Refrigeration and air conditioning,
Plumbing, Machinery and Glazing within a Health environment. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver's license. Must be prepared to
work overtime and do standby duties within the Metro East Hub. Physically fit
to perform duties and work at heights and in confined spaces. Must be
physically fit to perform duties as required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to work independently and under pressure. Ability to adhere to Safety
Standards. Ability to manage conflict and problem-solving situations. Strict
adherence to the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
118
DUTIES : All repairs and general maintenance of plant equipment and buildings in the
hospital. Maintain plant rooms, equipment and work areas in a clean and safe
condition. Assist Artisans with maintenance, repairs and installations projects.
Complete and return repair requisitions and further keep record of all repairs.
Assist in ordering and controlling the materials and workshop tools. Train and
develop staff and clean areas where work has been carried out.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A. Achmat Tel No: (021) 377- 4344 / 4802
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Candidates may be subjected to a competency test. No payments of any kind
are required when applying for this post. As directed by the Department of
Public Service and Administration, applicants must note that further checks will
be conducted once they are shortlisted and that their appointment is subject to
positive outcomes on these checks, which include security clearance,
qualification, verification, criminal records and previous employment.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/223 : EMERGENCY CARE OFFICER GRADE 1 AND 3 (X8 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency Clinical Services Support
SALARY : Grade 1: R187 488 per annum
Grade 3: R217 983 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services, Metropole and Rural Districts
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 1: Successful completion of an
appropriate Basic Life Support (BLS) course that allows registration with the
HPCSA as Basic Ambulance Assistant (BAA). Grade 3: Successful completion
of the Intermediate Life Support (ILS) that allows registration with the HPCSA
as Ambulance Emergency Assistant (AEA). Registration with a Professional
Council: Grade 1: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa as an BAA. Grade 3: Registration with the Health Professions Council
of South Africa as an AEA. Experience: None after registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a BAA or AEA. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid code C1 driver’s license. Valid professional
driver’s permit (PrDP). Physical and mental fitness. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Excellent knowledge of all levels of emergency care
protocols. Good communication and interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Ensure effective communication with regards to patients, colleagues, other
services and members of the Public. Provide quality and efficient roadside to
bedside definitive emergency care within defined emergency time frames
within and across geographic and clinical service platforms. Make use of all
communication tools provided by the Employer to facilitate safe communication
in relation to patient care protocols. -Effectively maintaining Admin Function:
complete manual and electronic patient care reports and trip authority log
sheets. Maintenance of Emergency Vehicles and Equipment. Provide effective
support to the supervisor and participate in own wellbeing.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Modack-Robertson Tel No: (021) 932-1966.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be expected to undergo a practical assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status. The pool
of applicants will be considered for other similar vacant posts within Emergency
Medical Services for a period of 3 months from the date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/224 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Phola Park Clinic
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing assistant. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1:
None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing
experience after registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 3:
A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
119
registration with SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirement of the job:
Willingness to work overtime when necessary. Will be required to work shifts,
weekends and public holidays. Willingness to rotate to other departments
according to operational needs. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication, planning and interpersonal skills. Ability to work in the
multidisciplinary team. Enhance patient care through the implementation of
SOP’s, policies, and guidelines.
DUTIES : Assist patients with daily living activities (physical care). To provide elementary
clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and financial resources.
Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms EJ Williams Tel No: (021) 877 -6400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Drakenstein Sub-district for a
period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/225 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (X2 POSTS)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Laingsburg Community Clinic
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1:
None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience
in nursing after registration as Nursing Assistant with the SANC. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Nursing Assistant with the SANC. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willing to work shifts, day and night duty and overtime. Willingness to rotate
to other wards in the facility and to work at the clinic in the Sub-district when
needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills. Self-
discipline and motivation.
DUTIES : Assist patients with daily living activities which include patient hygiene,
nutritional status, mobility and elimination needs. Provide elementary clinical
nursing care. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional growth,
ethical standards, and self-development. Record keeping.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Samuels Tel No: (023) 814 - 2023
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Central Karoo District for a period
of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/226 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (VARIOUS WARD) (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Registration
with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant.
120
Experience: Grade1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to
work shifts, night duty and public holidays. Annual receipt and license to
practice. Willingness to rotate within the hospital as per operational
requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic communication skills
(both verbal and written. Ability to function effectively as part of a team. Good
human relationships. The ability to render nursing care of an acceptable and
safe standard.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living (physical care). To provide
elementary clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and financial
resources. Maintain professional growth/ ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Franken Tel No: (021) 658-5187
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/227 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 (X5 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Hout Bay CDC (X1 Post)
Vanguard CHC (X2 Posts)
Retreat CHC (X1 Post)
Du Noon (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years of appropriate/ recognizable experience in
nursing after registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years of appropriate/ recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to perform relief duties at other facilities within the Southern-
Western district. Willingness to work overtime when necessary. Will be
required to work shifts, weekends, and public holidays. Must be prepared to
assist in all departments according to operational needs. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of nursing care and procedures, nursing
statutes, and other relevant legal frameworks. Must have good communication
skills. Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living (physical care). To provide
elementary clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and financial
resources. Maintain professional growth/ ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Ahjam Tel No: (021) 790-1050; Dr L Johnson Tel No: (021) 695-7242;
Ms S Meyer Tel No: (021) 713-9741; Mr R Hall Tel No: (021) 200-4500
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status The pool of applicants will be considered
for other vacant Nursing Assistant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/228 : SECURITY OFFICER (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std 7). Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
121
with the Security Board in terms of the Security Industry Regulatory Authority
Act (Act 56 of 2001) PSIRA as a Grade C. Inherent requirement of the job:
Willingness to work shifts and to be available on a 24-hour basis. The
successful incumbent must be willing to work under pressure and irregular
hours as required. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Good communication
skills. Computer literacy (Ms Office). Knowledge of prescripts, regulations and
procedures. Good interpersonal skills. Be responsible and diligent.
DUTIES : Protect/guard buildings/key-points/patients/visitors/personnel as well as the
patrolling of fence –off areas/buildings and the premises. Ensure
access/egress control to prevent the unlawful entry/removal of
persons/vehicles/dangerous objects and illegal substances and the monitoring
of surveillance cameras/fire alarm systems. Control/monitor surveillance
cameras to identify/prevent any unlawful entry of persons/suspicious
objects/persons as well as vehicle thefts and forcible entry of
departments/entrances of the hospital. Effective application of service
delivery/efficient support to the supervisor. Effective and efficient use of
equipment to render an efficient security service. Perform regular inspections
and ensure overall compliance with regards contract management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V.P. September Tel No: (021) 938-6077
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates
may also be required to undergo competency assessments/ practical tests.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/229 : STERILIZATION OPERATOR PRODUCTION
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in a health
environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts (day
and night duty), including weekends and public holidays. Physically fit to lift
heavy objects, push heavy trolleys, bend down, and stay on feet for long hours.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal relations skills. Ability to
work in a co-operative way within a team context. Basic literacy, both verbally
and in writing. Basic understanding of disinfection, decontamination and
sterilisation.
DUTIES : Collect and deliver soiled and clean linen and packs to and from theatre and
wards. Effective application of sterilisation processes and techniques and
promote/adhere to infection control as well as health and safety regulations.
Decontaminate, pack and sterilisation of instruments, linen, and supplies.
Assist with cleaning and testing of sterilisation equipment, washing machines
and autoclaves. Maintain equipment in optimum working condition. Cost
effective utilisation of resources, monitor, control and maintain adequate stock
levels. Report and assist with investigation of lost instruments/equipment.
Support to the supervisor and team members.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Seconds Tel No: (021) 360-4549
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/230 : OPERATOR
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std. 7). Experience: Appropriate Printing experience.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good planning, organisational, client care,
interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to meet deadlines, Compiling
and reporting on statistics. Computer literacy in (MS Word, Excel and Outlook).
Undergo development courses.
DUTIES : Deliver an effective and efficient Printing service for the entire Hospital.
Effectively finish off all printing requests. Effective office organisation and liaise
with external and internal clients. Ensure timeous submission of statistical data,
as well as collate and compile a monthly report. Perform relieve duties when
necessary. To relieve the Photocopy Centre and deliver urgent printing
122
requests to remote Departments as well as assisting the Medico-Legal
department with urgent copies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Stevens Tel No: (021) 404-3238
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be required to attend a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/231 : DRIVER (LIGHT DUTY VEHICLE)
West Coast District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Bergriver Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy. Experience: Appropriate
experience in transportation of personnel and goods in a health environment.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code C1) driver’s license and
willingness to travel. Valid Public Driving Permit (PDP). Willingness to work
overtime and to perform standby duties, including weekends and public
holidays. Physically fit to handle heavy equipment and objects. Competencies
(knowledge/ skills): Ability to accept accountability and responsibility and to
work independently and unsupervised. Knowledge of routine, maintenance
inspections for defects on vehicles and safe driving skills. Must be of sober
habits.
DUTIES : Rendering of Transport Service. Support to transport section. Maintenance of
vehicles. Support to supervisor and other components.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Julius Tel No: (022) 913-1337
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/232 : CLEANER (X9 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Retreat Community Health Centre (X3 Posts)
Vanguard CHC (X1 Post)
District Six CDC (X1 Post)
Lotus River CDC (X2 Posts)
Mamre CDC (X1 Post)
Lady Michaelis CDC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Inherent
requirements of the job: The ability to do physical tasks and operate heavy duty
cleaning and household equipment. Render shift service on weekends and
public holidays, and on day and night duty when required. Rotate in different
departments according to operational needs and requirements. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal skills. Knowledge of the correct
methods of handling and disposal of refuse /waste products and adherence to
policy and cleaning practices. Excellent communication Skills.
DUTIES : General cleaning and maintenance (sweeping, scrubbing, refuse removal,
dusting, mopping, polishing, cleaning hospital grounds, cleaning of windows
and walls). Effective and efficient utilisation and storage of cleaning materials
and equipment. Adhering to safety precautions and ensuring adherence to
occupational health and safety policies. Maintaining a high standard of
neatness and hygiene in the facility. Optimal support to Facility manager and
colleagues.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Meyer Tel No: (021) 713 9741 - Dr L Johnson Tel No: (021) 695 8242 -
Ms N Beukes Tel No: (021) 833 5405 - Ms G Jones Tel No: (021) 703 3131-
Ms A Marcus Tel No: (021) 810 4907 - Ms LE Van Wyk Tel No: (021) 797 8171
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Short-listed candidates may be subjected to a practical assessment. No
payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant Cleaner within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
123
POST 24/233 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (ANAESTHETICS) (10 SESSIONS
PER WEEK)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(3 Year Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R646 per hour
Grade 2: R737 per hour
Grade 3: R853 per hour
CENTRE : Mowbray Maternity Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Anaesthesia. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesia.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Anaesthesia. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees) as Medical Specialist in Anaesthesia. Grade 3: A minimum of 10
years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the
HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign
qualified employees) as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesia. Inherent
requirements of the job: A valid driver’s license. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in obstetric anaesthesia. Ability to
work in a team and with all levels of staff. Interest in training junior anaesthetists
and students in a career in anaesthesia. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : To deliver comprehensive anaesthesia and critical care services to patients in
theatre and the wards at Mowbray Maternity Hospital. Pre-operative,
intraoperative, and post-operative anaesthetic management of surgical
patients. Perform clinical teaching and training of interns, students and nursing
colleagues. Rotating through the hospitals affiliated with the University of Cape
Town, namely Groote Schuur Hospital, New Somerset Hospital and Mowbray
Maternity Hospital. Management duties such as statistics, presentations, and
research. Management of the epidural and pain service at Mowbray Maternity
Hospital.
ENQUIRIES : Dr C Pfister Tel No: (021) 404-5001
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including)individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”. The
pool of applicants will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services for a period of 3 months from date of
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
POST 24/234 : SESSIONAL DENTAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (PROSTHODONTICS)
APPOINTMENT 1 – 16 HOURS PER WEEK, APPOINTMENT 2 – 14 HOURS
PER WEEK
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R646 per hour
Grade 2: R737 per hour
Grade 3: R853 per hour
CENTRE : Oral Health Centre, Tygerberg/Mitchell’s Plain Platform
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Dental Specialist in Prosthodontics. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Dental Specialist in Prosthodontics.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Dental
Specialist in Prosthodontist. Grade 2: Minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Dental Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a
recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified
employee) as a Dental Specialist in Prosthodontics. Grade 3: Minimum of 10
years’ appropriate experience as Dental Specialist after registration with the
HPCSA (or a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a
124
foreign qualified employee) as a Dental Specialist in Prosthodontics. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid Driver’s license.
DUTIES : Screening of patients on arrival. Record patient details. Identify problems to
provide diagnosis. Treat emergency and main complaints. Restore function
and aesthetics. Liaise with the multidisciplinary team (where needed). Record
keeping. Responsible for compiling stats.
ENQUIRIES : Dr CCA Cloete Tel No: (021) 937 3092
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be considered for
other similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 202
POST 24/235 : MEDICAL OFFICER: GRADE 1 TO 3 CLINICAL FORENSIC MEDICINE /
THUTHUZELA CARE CENTRE (10 HRS PER WEEK)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R482 per hour
Grade 2: R550 per hour
Grade 3: R636 per hour
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs)
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate qualification that allows for
the registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: A Valid
driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Appropriate experience in
Clinical Forensic Medicine. Ability to work in a team and with all levels of staff
and stakeholders. Ability to testify in court on cases you were involved with.
DUTIES : To deliver comprehensive safe and trauma informed clinical forensic medical
care in the Thuthuzela Care Centre at Victoria Hospital. This would include the
following roles: Comprehensive clinical forensic medical care of acute and non-
acute patients who are victims of Gender Base Violence, sexual offences, child
abuse, elderly abuse as well as the clinical forensic evaluation of alleged
perpetrators. Testify in court when requested by judiciary. Teaching and
training of junior staff, students. Management duties such as completion of
documents, statistics, presentations and research. Participation at Morbidity
and Mortality meetings as needed. Hours: Sessional Medical officer post
comprising of 12 or more hours a week. This will include day shifts and or after-
hour shifts.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. Esmé Swanepoel Tel No: (021) 799 1118 / email:
Esme.Swanepoel@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
125
NOTE : Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals
who must apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will
be considered for similar vacant posts within the Department for a period of 3
months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 25 July 2025
126