PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 33 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 12 SEPTEMBER 2025
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge
and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH IS
EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative
action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied.
Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the
filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment
in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENTS : DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING (CENTRAL
JOHANNESBURG TVET COLLEGE): Kindly note that the following six (6) posts were
advertised in the Public Service Vacancy Circular 31 dated 29 August 2025, Assistant
Director: Partnerships and Linkages with Ref No: CJC/PLl/16/2025; Assistant Director:
Student Registration & Management Information System with Ref No:
CJC/SRM/17/2025; Senior Management Information Systems Officer with Ref No:
CJC/SMIS/18/2025; Senior State Accountant: Management Accounting: Ref No:
CJC/SSAM/19/2025; Senior Information Technology Technician with Ref No:
CJC/SIT/20//2025; Information Technology (IT) with Ref No: CJC/ICT/21//2025; the
closing date has been extended to 19 September 2025.
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE: Kindly note that the
following posts were advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 28 dated 08 August
2025 that closed on 22 August 2025, (1) Chief Civil Engineer Grade A with Ref No:
2025/59, Centre: Durban regional office and Public Service Vacancy Circular 31 dated
29 August 2025 with closing date of 12 September 2025, (2) Senior Accounting Clerk:
Finance (Batch Controller) with Ref No: 2025/85, Centre: Bloemfontein regional office,
are withdrawn.
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL: DEPARTMENT OF
TREASURY: Kindly note that the following post advertised in Public Service Vacancy
Circular 32 dated 05 September 2025, Assistant Director: BAS: (X1 Post) with Ref No:
KZNPT 25/38 has been withdrawn.
2
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
BASIC EDUCATION A 04 - 11
COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE B 12 - 16
DEFENCE C 17 - 22
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR D 23 - 27
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT E 28 - 31
MINERAL AND PETROLEUM RESOURCES F 32 - 34
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE G 35 - 43
TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS H 44
WATER AND SANITATION I 45 - 50
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
FREE STATE J 51 - 53
GAUTENG K 54 - 87
KWAZULU NATAL L 88 - 105
LIMPOPO M 106 - 109
WESTERN CAPE N 110 - 151
3
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF BASIC EDUCATION
The Department of Basic Education is committed to providing equal opportunities and practicing
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote equity through the filling of all numeric
targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication
of race, gender and disability status is required. Preference will be given to underrepresented groups as
per the DBE Employment Equity Targets. Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Submitted via post to: Private Bag X895, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-deliver to: The
Department of Basic Education, 222 Struben Street, Pretoria or you can email
your application at Recruitment@dbe.gov.za. Please visit the Department of
Education’s website at www.education.gov.za or the Department of Public
Service and Administration Vacancy circulars at www.dpsa.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr M Segowa/Ms N Monyela
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the most recently approved Z83 Application
for Employment Form, obtainable from the DBE Website or any Public Service
Department/Webpage. Use of the old Z83 Form will result in disqualification.
The Z83 must be completed in full and page 2 duly signed. A clear indication
of the post and reference number that is being applied for must be indicated
on your Z.83. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 with a
detailed Curriculum Vitae (Only). Certified copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents will be requested from shortlisted candidates on or before
the day of the interview. Successful candidates will be subjected to Personnel
Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset record checks,
qualification and employment verification including social media profiles).
Appointment is subject to positive results of the security clearance process.
The successful candidate will be required to sign an annual performance
agreement and, where applicable, annually disclose his/her financial interests.
All applicants are required to declare any conflict or perceived conflict of
interest, to disclose memberships of Boards and directorships that they may
be associated with. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
requirements will not be considered. Applications received after the closing
date and e-mailed or faxed applications will not be considered.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 33/01 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: MEDIA LIAISON AND NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL
COMMUNICATION REF NO: DBE/07/2025
Branch: Office of the Director General
Chief Directorate: Media Liaison and National and Provincial Communications
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : The applicant must be in a possession of a relevant Bachelor’s degree (NQF
level 7) or equivalent qualification in Communication as recognised by SAQA;
The incumbent must have five (5) years’ experience at a Senior managerial
level in the communication field; Extensive experience in media and
communications fields; Process Competencies: Knowledge Management,
Service Delivery Innovation, Problem-Solving and Analysis; Client Orientation,
Customer Focus and Communication Skills. Core Competencies: Strategic
Capacity and Leadership, People Management and Empowerment, Financial
Management and Change Management, Promotion Communication,
Innovation, Creativity and ability to prepare speeches; The candidate must be
confident, trustworthy, accurate, adaptable and diplomatic; Applicant must
have a valid driver’s licence and willing to travel extensively.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for overseeing and providing
strategic direction to all Communication Directorates in order to ensure efficient
delivery of communication services to the Ministry and the Department of Basic
Education; Overseeing and providing strategic in the development and
implementation of communication campaigns for the Ministry and the
Department of Basic Education; Building and sustaining a positive reputation
for the Minister and the Department of Basic Education; Managing unplanned
and urgent communication matters for the Minister and the Department of
Basic Education; Arranging media and press conferences; Responding to
4
media enquiries; Responding timeously to deadlines and to providing quality
inputs into matters that affect the Minister and the Department of Basic
Education; Ensuring effective management and utilisation of the appropriate
communication channels for the Ministry and the Department of Basic
Education; Ensuring that the delegated tasks and assignments for the Minister,
Deputy Minister, Director-General, HEDCOM and CEM aimed at enhancing the
programmes and projects within the Department of Basic Education and the
Provincial Education Department, are undertaken; Ensuring that the
appropriate financial administrative and personnel management of the
Department of Basic Education, as well as the relevant Public Service and
Administration Policies and the PFMA.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Segowa Tel No: (012) 357 4291 or Ms N Monyela Tel No: (012) 357 3294
NOTE : A Certificate for SMS pre-entry programme is required for all SMS
appointments, the full details of the outlined requirements and course
information can be sourced by following the link
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry programme/. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
that intends to test relevant technical element of the job, the logistics of which
will be communicated by the department. Following the interview and the
technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a
generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA
Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The incumbent
will have to sign an annual performance agreement as well as annually
disclose his/her financial interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
POST 33/02 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: LEGAL AND LEGISLATIVE SERVICES REF NO:
DBE/08/2025
Branch: Finance and Administration
Chief Directorate: Legal and Legislative
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : The applicants must be in a possession of a relevant Bachelor of Law Degree
(NQF Level 7) or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA; A Master’s
Degree in Law will be an advantage; At least 10 years working experience in
the Legal field and with a minimum of 5 years’ experience at a Senior
Managerial Level; Experience in Education Law is a pre-requisite; The
candidate must be admitted as an Attorney or Advocate; The post requires a
person with excellent leadership and strategic management skills; Excellent
communication skills (verbal and written); Computer literate including MS
Office software (Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint and Access); Research and
policy formulation; Presentation skills; Analytical and problem-solving skills;
Candidate must be confident, trustworthy, accurate, adaptable and diplomatic
A valid driver’s license; Ability to work long hours and travel extensively.
Process Competencies: Knowledge Management; Service Delivery
Innovation; Problem Solving and Analysis; Client Orientated and Customer
Focus and Communication skills. Core Competencies: Strategic capability and
Leadership; Programme and project management; Financial management;
Knowledge management; People management and Empowerment; Promotion
of communication, Innovation and Creativity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for managing two Directorates:
Legal Services and Legislative Services; Providing litigation support for
Provincial Education Departments as well as drafting and monitoring
implementation of education legislation (Bills, Acts and Regulations pertaining
to the DBE); Providing legal advice to the entire Department; Coordinating,
monitoring, evaluating and supporting the effective implementation of DBE
legislation; Administering legislation of statutory bodies; Rendering a legal
interpretation and advisory service to the DBE; Managing court cases on behalf
of the Minister and DG of DBE; Drafting advice on national and international
agreements and negotiating the terms of the agreement with parties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Segowa Tel No: (012) 357 4291 or Ms N Monyela Tel No: (012) 357 3294
NOTE : A Certificate for SMS pre-entry programme is required for all SMS
appointments, the full details of the outlined requirements and course
information can be sourced by following the link
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry programme/. All
5
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
that intends to test relevant technical element of the job, the logistics of which
will be communicated by the department. Following the interview and the
technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a
generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA
Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The incumbent
will have to sign an annual performance agreement as well as annually
disclose his/her financial interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
POST 33/03 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: EDUCATION HUMAN RESOURCE AND
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DBE/09/2025
Branch: Teachers, Education Human Resources and Institutional Development
Chief Directorate: Education Human Resources Development
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in a possession of a Bachelor’s degree (NQF Level 7) or
equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA; 5 years’ experience at senior
managerial level; A post-graduate degree will be an added advantage;
Experience in the education sector; Understanding of policies governing
Teacher Development process as well as the ability to analyse data. Process
Competencies: Knowledge Management; Service Delivery Innovation;
Problem Solving and Analysis; Client Orientated and Customer Focus and
Communication skills. Core Competencies: Strategic Capability and
Leadership; People management and Empowerment; Financial management;
Knowledge management; People management and Empowerment; Financial
Management and Change Management.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for overseeing the
implementation of the Integrated Strategic Planning Framework for Teacher
Education and Development (ISPFTED) as well as monitoring the performance
of the South African Council for Educators (SACE) in relation to its
management of the CPTD management information system; Overseeing the
training and development of educators in Mother – Tongue based Bilingual
Education (MTBbRL) as well as Mother- Tongue based Bilingual Education
(MTBbE); Overseeing the management of Professional Learning Communities
as well as the Teacher Union Collaboration (TUC); Overseeing the
management of the Fundza Lushaka Bursary programme, the National
Teacher Award (NTA) and the National Teacher Induction Programme (NTIP);
Overseeing the quality of programmes offered by Higher Education and
Training (DHET) as well as Higher Education Institutions (HEIs); Supporting
Education Programme on skills for Changing World as well as the use of
relevant platforms such as the online Teacher Development Platform; Ensuring
that all programmes provided to teachers are SACE endorsed; Providing
strategic leadership in the management and administration of the Chief
Directorate, including in the (Medium Term Development Plan), Annual
Performance Plan (APP); Managing staff performance in line with their
performance agreement of the Chief Directorate; Managing the budget of the
Chief Directorate: Providing reports to oversight structures as required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Segowa Tel No: (012) 357 4291 or Ms N Monyela Tel No: (012) 357 3294
NOTE : A Certificate for SMS pre-entry programme is required for all SMS
appointments, the full details of the outlined requirements and course
information can be sourced by following the link
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry programme/. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
that intends to test relevant technical element of the job, the logistics of which
will be communicated by the department. Following the interview and the
technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a
generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA
Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The incumbent
will have to sign an annual performance agreement as well as annually
disclose his/her financial interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
6
POST 33/04 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS AND ASSESSMENTS REF
NO: DBE/10/2025
Branch: Curriculum Policy, Support and Monitoring
Chief Directorate: Public Examinations and Assessments
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : The applicants must be in a possession of a Bachelor’s degree (NQF Level 7)
or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA; 5 Years' experience at
senior managerial level; Experience in the education sector; Understanding of
policies governing Public Examination and Assessment; Process
Competencies: Knowledge Management, Service Delivery Innovation,
Problem Solving and Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer Focus,
Communication skills. Core Competencies: Strategic Capacity and
Leadership, People Management and Empowerment, Financial Management
and Change Management.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the managing and
administration of the National Examination Assessment; Managing the setting
of high quality Grade 12 examination question paper; Managing and Enhancing
the National Computer System for examinations and assessment in the GET
and FET bands; Managing and Improving the certification process relating to
Senior Certificate and National Senior Certificate; Managing the administration
of International Assessment relating to TIMSS, PIRLS, SACMEQ and TALIS;
Managing the administration of the GEC pilot; Developing and assessment
regime for the introduction of mother tongue Based Bilingual Education in the
GET band; Developing high quality test items for diagnostic, summative and
systematic assessment in the GET bands; Promoting the integration of
formative assessment in teaching and learning in both GET and FET bands;
Implementing a General Education Certificate at the end of Grade 9;
Implementing a model of systemic evaluation that will provide valuable data on
the performance of the system; Conducting assessment to determine the
readiness of Grade R learners to grade 1; Supporting and Coordinating the
implementation of the examinations across the nine provincial education
departments; Improving the quality assurance of summative school based
assessment in both the GET and FET bands; Improving the quality of marking
in the Public Examinations; Providing accurate and reliable data on learner
performance in the GET and FET bands.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Segowa Tel No: (012) 357 4291 or Ms N Monyela Tel No: (012) 357 3294
NOTE : A Certificate for SMS pre-entry programme is required for all SMS
appointments, the full details of the outlined requirements and course
information can be sourced by following the link
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry programme/. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
that intends to test relevant technical element of the job, the logistics of which
will be communicated by the department. Following the interview and the
technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a
generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA
Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The incumbent
will have to sign an annual performance agreement as well as annually
disclose his/her financial interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
POST 33/05 : DIRECTOR: CURRICULUM IMPLEMENTATION AND QUALITY
IMPROVEMENT (FURTHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING – GRADES 10 –
12) REF NO: DBE/11/2025
Branch: Curriculum Policy, Support and Monitoring
Chief Directorate: Curriculum Implementation and Monitoring
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : The applicant must be in a possession of a Bachelors' degree (NQF level 7) or
equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA in Curriculum Implementation
and Quality Improvement in the FET band coupled with relevant experience in
the field; 5 years’ experience at Middle/Senior managerial level; At least five
(5) years’ experience in working within the FET band, in the Basic Education
Sector; Knowledge of the key challenges in Further Education and Training
7
(FET) and how these can be mediated to improve learner performance in
schools; In depth knowledge of the National Curriculum Statement and its
implementation in the FET sector. Knowledge of the National Qualifications
Framework and Curriculum Development processes; Knowledge of and ability
to work with critical stakeholders within the Sector to strengthen the
implementation of FET; The ability to ensure the development and
implementation of Norms and Standards in line with sections 3 and 8 of the
National Education Policy Act; The ability to provide strategic leadership to the
FET Sector; Good general management skills; A thorough understanding of
and experience in all processes involved in project management; The ability to
co-ordinate and manage the finances of the directorate in line with PFMA and
procurement processes; Good and functional knowledge of Government
prescripts, knowledge of Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting systems and
processes and project management. Planning and organizing skills. Strong
leadership skills; Advanced computer skills. Good interpersonal relations and
the ability to handle pressure; A valid driver's license; Process Competencies:
Knowledge Management, Service Delivery Innovation, Problem Solving and
Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication skills. Core
Competencies: Strategic Capacity and Leadership, People Management and
Empowerment, Financial Management and Change Management.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the assuming overall
responsibility for the management, leadership and mentoring of staff in the
Directorate: Curriculum Implementation and Quality Improvement (FET);
Providing visionary and strategic leadership as well as guidance pertaining to
policy development; Monitoring of the implementation of the curriculum and
assessment; Coordinating of the curriculum related activities to support the
learning Recovery Framework; Leading and coordinating the strengthening of
the Curriculum project; Prudently handling the budget of the Directorate,
including doing forecasts and projections, analyse spending trends and adapt
spending accordingly.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Segowa Tel No: (012) 357 4291 or Ms N Monyela Tel No: (012) 357 3294
NOTE : A Certificate for SMS pre-entry programme is required for all SMS
appointments, the full details of the outlined requirements and course
information can be sourced by following the link
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry programme/. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
that intends to test relevant technical element of the job, the logistics of which
will be communicated by the department. Following the interview and the
technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a
generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA
Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The incumbent
will have to sign an annual performance agreement as well as annually
disclose his/her financial interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
POST 33/06 : DIRECTOR: HEALTH PROMOTION REF NO: DBE/12/2025
Branch: Social Mobilisation and Support Services
Chief Directorate: Care and Support
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : The applicant must be in a possession of a Bachelors' degree (NQF level 7) or
equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA in the social or health
sciences, public health or education (a relevant postgraduate qualification will
be an added advantage); 5 year’s experience at Middle/Senior managerial
level; Experience in education and/or health promotion or public health;
Understanding of current global cutting-edge thinking on school health,
adolescent sexual and reproductive health, and rights as well as the provision
of psychosocial services to children and youth is essential: Excellent
communication, inter-personal and writing skills are vital; Experience of high-
level strategic planning processes, human resource management and financial
management; Ability to manage research processes, and/or experience in
monitoring and evaluation will be a strong recommendation. Process
Competencies: Knowledge Management, Service Delivery Innovation,
Problem Solving and Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer Focus,
Communication skills. Core Competencies: Strategic Capacity and
8
Leadership, People Management and Empowerment, Financial Management
and Change Management.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for strategic and operational
planning for the Directorate; Health Promotion, taking overall responsibility for
managing and accounting for projects, including the development of business
plans; Managing the performance of officials, budgets and cash flows;
Implementing and monitoring programmes as well as reporting; Providing
strategic leadership and operational management of the Directorate;
Developing and implementing an integrated and comprehensive response to
the twin epidemics of HIV and TB, learner pregnancy and health related;
Developing a programme of action to prevent and manage teenage pregnancy
in the schooling sector; Strengthening the Sexual and Reproductive Health and
Rights (SRHR) programme for learners in schools; Promoting the provision of
health and psychological and social services in schools; Liaising and co-
operating with provincial education departments, national government
departments, universities, research organizations as well as NGOs and civic
organisations; Liaising with and reporting to project funders; Monitoring and
evaluating policies and strategies to promote the health and wellbeing of
schools; Representing the Directorate, both internally and externally as
required; Managing internal and external partnerships.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Segowa Tel No: (012) 357 4291 or Ms N Monyela Tel No: (012) 357 3294
NOTE : A Certificate for SMS pre-entry programme is required for all SMS
appointments, the full details of the outlined requirements and course
information can be sourced by following the link
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry programme/. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
that intends to test relevant technical element of the job, the logistics of which
will be communicated by the department. Following the interview and the
technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a
generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA
Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The incumbent
will have to sign an annual performance agreement as well as annually
disclose his/her financial interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
POST 33/07 : DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL AND DISTRICT PLANNING AND
IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT REF NO: DBE/13/2025
Branch: Delivery and Support
Chief Directorate: Planning And Implementation Support
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in a possession of a relevant Bachelor’s degree (NQF Level
7) or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA; A relevant post-graduate
qualification will be an advantage; Five years’ experience at Middle/Senior
Management level in the education sector; Extensive experience in the
education sector with specific focus on District Development Support; Minimum
of five years’ relevant experience in programme management/project
management; Minimum of five years’ experience of working with stakeholders
and other sectors including communities; Knowledge of current education
policies and strategies; Excellent communication skills (verbal and written) and
good interpersonal skills; Computer literate including MS Office software
(Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint and Access); A valid driver’s license; Ability
to work long hours and travel extensively; Core Competencies: Strategic
capability and Leadership; Programme and project management; Financial
management; Process Competencies: Knowledge management; People
management and Empowerment; Promotion of communication, Innovation and
Creativity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for managing an effective system
addressing and identifying planning, implementation and monitoring
challenges at provincial and district level; Monitoring policy implementation and
supporting the institutionalisation of the District Development Model (DDM) in
the sector; Monitoring, supporting, evaluating, and reporting on the
performance of districts; Monitoring and reporting on the filling of critical
vacancies and ensuring the provision of basic tools of the trade to district;
Strengthening human capacity for accountability and enhancing the quality of
9
education service delivery support in districts; Implementing district
effectiveness initiatives to improve functionality and performance; Supporting
districts and facilitating the sharing of best practices through HEDCOM
Subcommittee meetings and periodic meetings between the Minister and
district directors; Providing analysis on the number of districts where teacher
development has been implemented in line with the District Improvement Plan
(DIP); Overseeing District Standard Routines and Operations to ensure
consistency and accountability; Clarifying and reinforcing the roles and
responsibilities of circuit managers; Coordinating the printing, distribution, and
implementation of district officials’ recruitment guidelines across provinces and
districts; Participating in the multi-disciplinary team to develop institutional,
management, and governance models tailored for small, economically and
educationally unviable schools.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Segowa Tel No: (012) 357 4291 or Ms N Monyela Tel No: (012) 357 3294
NOTE : A Certificate for SMS pre-entry programme is required for all SMS
appointments, the full details of the outlined requirements and course
information can be sourced by following the link
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry programme/. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
that intends to test relevant technical element of the job, the logistics of which
will be communicated by the department. Following the interview and the
technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a
generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA
Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The incumbent
will have to sign an annual performance agreement as well as annually
disclose his/her financial interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
POST 33/08 : DIRECTOR: TEACHER DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION REF NO:
DBE/14/2025
Branch: Teachers, Education Human Resources and Institutional Development
Chief Directorate: Curriculum and Professional Development Institute
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in a possession of relevant Bachelors degree (NQF level
7) or equivalent as recognised by SAQA; A relevant post-graduate qualification
will serve as an advantage; 5 years’ experience at Middle/Senior Managerial
level in the Education sector; Extensive experience in the field of institution and
employee performance management; An in depth knowledge and
understanding of the strategies for teacher support and development, including
capacity to integrate ICT and other innovative strategies. The capacity to
undertake research, impact assessment, monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
will be an added advantage. Understanding of the education sector; Good
computer skills including MS Word, MS Excel and MS Power Point; Ability to
work under pressure; A valid driver’s license and be willing to travel extensively.
Process Competencies: Knowledge Management; Service Delivery
Innovation; Client Orientation; Customer Focus; Communication Skills;
Problem Solving and Analysis. Core Competencies: Strategic Capacity;
Leadership; People Management; Empowerment; Financial Management;
Change Management; Trustworthy, accurate, adaptable, diplomatic; Valid
driver’s license and willing to travel extensively.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for coordinating, monitoring, and
supporting teacher development programmes in provinces in line with the DBE
priorities, including conducting of impact assessments; Developing frameworks
for programme development; Developing strategies to improve and support
school and educator performance; Driving content development and curation
of digital resources for teacher support and for teaching and learning;
Promoting active utilization of ICT platforms for professional development;
Monitoring and evaluating teacher development initiatives; Providing strategic
leadership and manage finances in line with PFMA; Providing strategic
leadership to staff and develop annual plans; Supporting the use of the online
Teacher Development Platform and other innovative practices to build the
capacity of teachers; Managing the finances of the Directorate in line with the
Public Finance Management Act; Identifying key blockages to effective and
timeous planning and implementation of key sector mandates and priorities;
10
Compiling quarterly analytic reports for HEDCOM and CEM to guide sector
improvement practice; Facilitating the sharing of best practice.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Segowa Tel No: (012) 357 4291 or Ms N Monyela Tel No: (012) 357 3294
NOTE : A Certificate for SMS pre-entry programme is required for all SMS
appointments, the full details of the outlined requirements and course
information can be sourced by following the link
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry programme/. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
that intends to test relevant technical element of the job, the logistics of which
will be communicated by the department. Following the interview and the
technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a
generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA
Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The incumbent
will have to sign an annual performance agreement as well as annually
disclose his/her financial interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
11
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE
The vision of the Department of Cooperative Governance is one of having a well co-ordinated system of
Government consisting of National, Provincial and Local spheres working together to achieve
sustainable development and service delivery. The Department intends to invest in human capital,
increase integrated technical capacity directed at service delivery and promote representivity in the
Department through the filling of this posts. The candidature of persons whose
appointment/transfer/promotion will promote representivity will therefore receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
NOTE : Applicants are advised that a new application for employment (Z83) has been
in effect since 1 January 2021. The new application for employment form can
be downloaded at http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applications
submitted using the old Z83 form will not be accepted. Applications must be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV, with specific starting and ending dates
in all relevant positions and clarity on the levels and ranks pertaining to
experience, as well as current remuneration package, as well as at least 2
contactable references. Only shortlisted candidates will be requested to submit
certified documents/ copies on or before the interviews. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Incomplete applications or applications
received after the closing date will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to a technical exercise (or exercises/follow-up
engagements/second round interviews/or any other method) that intends to
test relevant technical elements of the job. Following the interview and
technical exercise(s), the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend
a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA
directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Core
competencies: Strategic capacity and leadership. People management and
empowerment. Advanced programme and project management. Change
management. Financial management. Process Competencies: Knowledge
management. Service Delivery Innovation. Advanced problem-solving and
analysis. Client orientation and customer focus. Advanced communication
skills (written and verbal). The successful candidate will be appointed to
positive results of a pre-employment screening process which includes
criminal, credit, citizenship checks and verification of educational qualification
certificates. The successful candidate will be appointed to probation for a
period of 12 months and will be required to sign a performance agreement. It
is important to note that it is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all
information and attachments in support of the application are submitted by the
due date. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you
have not been contacted within three months of the closing date of the
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right to make an appointment. The below post is a
senior management post. The requirements for appointment at Senior
Management Service level include the successful completion of Senior
Management Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government, which can be accessed using the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.
Candidates must provide proof of successful completion of the course prior to
appointment. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 33/09 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO: DDG-
CS-01
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum (Level 15), (an all-inclusive remuneration package).
The package include a basic salary (70% of package) and a flexible portion
that may be structured in terms of the applicable guidelines. Candidates
earning more than the first notch of the Salary Level will be treated according
to provisions in PSR 44.
CENTRE : Pretoria
12
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification in Public Administration/ Business Administration or equivalent
at NQF level 8 as recognised by SAQA, plus 8 years’ experience at a Senior
Management level. The Nyukela Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme is
to be completed before appointment to the post. A valid driver’s license.
Intensive travelling. Additional Requirements (Advantage): MS PowerPoint,
MS Project. Generic Competencies: Strategic capacity and leadership. People
management and empowerment. Programme and project management.
Financial management. Change management. Knowledge management.
Service delivery innovation. Problem solving and analysis. Client orientation
and customer focus. Communication (verbal and written). Technical
Competencies: Comprehensive knowledge and understanding of Government
systems and structures. Public Service Transformation. Public Finance
Management Act. Public Service Act and Public Service Regulations.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Provide strategic
leadership and guidance on Human Resource, Facilities and Security
Management in the Department. Provide strategic leadership and guidance on
Communication and Marketing in the Department. Provide strategic leadership
and guidance on Information Communication Technology in the Department.
Provide strategic leadership and guidance on Legal Services in the
Department. Oversee the overall functioning of the Branch, identify problems
and provide solutions that seek to ensure effective and efficient use of the
departmental resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Van Wyk at 064 850 8845
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to: DDG-CS-
01@tttrecruitment.co.za. For application enquiries contact: To the T
Recruitment at 067 391 7387
POST 33/10 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: COMMUNITY WORK PROGRAMME
IMPLEMENTATION (NW, GP AND FS) REF NO: CD-CWPI-02
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (an all-inclusive remuneration package).
The package include a basic salary (70% of package) and a flexible portion
that may be structured in terms of the applicable guidelines. Candidates
earning more than the first notch of the Salary Level will be treated according
to provisions in PSR 44.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Social Sciences/ Community Development/
Public Administration or equivalent (NQF 7 as recognised by SAQA) A
minimum of 5 years’ experience at senior management level. Proficiency in MS
Word, MS PowerPoint, MS Project. The Nyukela Senior Management Pre-
Entry Programme is to be completed before appointment to the post. A valid
driver’s license. Intensive travelling. Additional Requirements (Advantage):
Stakeholder Relationship. Generic Competencies: Strategic capacity and
leadership. People Management and Empowerment. Programme and project
management. Financial management. Change management. Knowledge
management. Service delivery innovation. Problem solving and analysis. Client
orientation and customer focus. Communication (verbal and written). Technical
Competencies: Extensive knowledge in: Community Development
Approaches. Cooperative Governance. Poverty eradication and job creation.
Public-private partnerships. Stakeholder Relations. Due Diligence. Resource
mobilisations.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Facilitate the
implementation of the CWP in allocated provinces. Oversee and coordinate the
implementation of CWP processes, policies, frameworks, norms and standards
and maintenance of work opportunities. Oversee the monitoring and reporting
to ensure effective contract management and compliance with CWP norms and
standards. Oversee the establishment and functionality of CWP provincial
stakeholder coordination processes, as well as local stakeholder structures.
Coordinate the establishment, the facilitation and implementation of smart
partnerships to enhance the impact of CWP.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Jantjies Tel No: (012) 334 0685
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to: CD-CWPI-
02@tttrecruitment.co.za. For application enquiries contact: To the T
Recruitment at 067 391 7387
13
OTHER POSTS
POST 33/11 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DEMARCATION AND STRUCTURES
IMPLEMENTATION REF NO: DD-DSI-03
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Public Administration/
Development studies or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6/7 as recognised
by SAQA. 3-5 years’ experience in the related field. Proficiency in MS Excel
and MS Word. Driver’s License and travelling. Additional Requirements
(Advantage): MS PowerPoint. Generic Competencies: Planning and
Organising. Problem solving and decision making. Coordination. Project
Management. People management and empowerment. Team leadership.
Client orientation and customer focus. Diversity management. Communication
(verbal and written). Technical Competencies: In-depth knowledge of Local
Government: Municipal Structures Act. Local Government: Municipal Systems
Act. Local Government: Municipal Demarcation Act. Local Government:
Municipal Electoral Act. Constitution. Monitoring and support techniques.
Interpretation and analysis techniques.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Manage and
provide technical support and expert advice on the processes on the
determination and redetermination of municipal boundaries. Manage the
processes of local government elections and other electoral-related matters,
including making proposals around the administration of national and provincial
elections. Manage and provide technical support towards the development of
policy interventions to improve the Local Government: Municipal Demarcation
Act, 1998 and Local Government: Municipal Structures Act, 1998 and related
Regulations. Manage the development of the formula for the determination of
the number of councillors in terms of Section 20 of the Local Government:
Municipal Structures Act, 1998. Manage the processes relating to the alteration
of provincial boundaries, including developing national legislation to deal with
transition matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SSB Nkehli Tel No: (012) 395 4620
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to: DD-DSI-
03@tttrecruitment.co.za. For application enquiries contact: To the T
Recruitment at 067 391 7387
POST 33/12 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFORMATION AND KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT
REF NO: DD001
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Information Science/
Library Science/ Knowledge Management or equivalent qualification at NQF
level 6/7 as recognised by SAQA. 3-5 years’ experience in a related field.
Proficiency in MS Excel and MS Word. Driver’s License and travelling Generic
Competencies: Planning and Organising. Problem solving and decision
making. Coordination. Project Management. People management and
empowerment. Team leadership. Client orientation and customer focus.
Diversity management. Communication (verbal and written). Technical
Competencies: In-depth knowledge; Research. Data Analysis. System
Development. Business Analysis. Database management. Content
Management. Stakeholder Relations. Advance technical writing and
communication skills. Knowledge Management systems and platforms.
National Knowledge management strategy framework.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Manage the
development and implementation of Knowledge Management (KM) strategy for
DCOG. Coordinate the documentation of case studies, best practices and
lessons learnt. Develop and monitor knowledge management frameworks,
guidelines and tools for DCOG and all municipalities. Manage and implement
knowledge sharing programmes for DCOG and municipalities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Skosana Tel No: (012) 334 4883/ 060 994 6038
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
consultant5@multilead.co.za For application enquiries contact: Sphamandla
Ndlovu Tel No: (011) 763 1103/4
14
POST 33/13 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: GOVERNANCE, RISK AUDIT AND PROJECT
MANAGEMENT REF NO: DD02
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Information Technology/
Systems/ Computer Science or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6/7 as
recognised by SAQA. 3-5 years’ experience in Risk, Audit/ Compliance and
Corporate Governance of ICT environments.). Additional Requirements
(Advantage): MS PowerPoint, MS Project. Generic Competencies: Planning
and Organising. Problem solving and decision making. Coordination. Project
Management. People management and empowerment. Team leadership.
Client orientation and customer focus. Diversity management. Communication
(verbal and written) Technical Competencies: DPSA Corporate Governance of
ICT Framework. Enterprise Risk Management Framework. Risk and
Information Systems Control (CRISC), COBIT and ITIL.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Manage the
development of operational / annual ICT risks and internal and external audit
plans. Develop and manage policy and procedure on information technology
audits. Manage the implementation and monitoring of information technology
audits. Manage and monitor implementation of ICT governance and
compliance. Develop, update and monitor project management methodology
and templates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Seabela Tel No: (012) 334 4609
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
consultant6@multilead.co.za For application enquiries contact: Sphamandla
Ndlovu Tel No: (011) 763 1103/4
POST 33/14 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: VETTING AND SCREENING REF NO: AD001
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Social Sciences or
equivalent qualification at NQF level 6/7 as recognised by SAQA. 3-5 years’
experience in Vetting Investigations. Proficiency in MS Excel and MS Word.
Other: A valid driver’s license. Security Vetting Investigations course offered by
State Security Agency. South African National Defence Force. Additional
Requirements (Advantage): MS PowerPoint, MS Project. Generic
Competencies: Planning and organising. Problem solving and decision
making. People management and empowerment. Team leadership. Project
management. Coordination. Client orientation and customer focus. Diversity
management. Communication (verbal and written). Technical Competencies:
Knowledge of Minimum Information Security Standards (miss) report security
services. Security Vetting. Disciplinary Procedures. Risk and Threat
Management.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Conduct vetting
field-work investigations and screening of service providers. Provide inputs for
the development and implementation of policies, guidelines, norms and
standards in vetting investigations. Provide effective communication channels
and systems between the Department and the State Security Agency and other
related agencies. Administer files and partake in task teams dealing with
matters related to vetting projects or processes.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Modise Tel No: (012) 395 4707
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
response4@multilead.co.za For application enquiries contact Sphamandla
Ndlovu Tel No: (011) 763 1103/4
POST 33/15 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: MUNICIPAL FUNCTIONS, POWERS AND
INTERVENTIONS SUPPORT REF NO: SAO001
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Law/ Public
Administration or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6/7 as recognised by
SAQA. 2-3 years’ experience in a related field. Proficiency in MS Excel and MS
Word. Driver’s License and travelling. Generic Competencies: Quality of work.
Initiative. Reliability. Interpersonal Relations. Planning and Execution.
15
Teamwork. Communication (verbal and written). Technical Competencies:
Knowledge of National, Provincial and Local Government legislation and
systems. Research, analysis and interpretation skills. Data analysis and
interpretation.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Assist in monitoring
of regulatory framework on decentralization of power and functions to local
government. Administer applications for adjustment of powers and functions
between district and local municipalities. Administer database and submissions
on invocations and revocations of section 100 and 139 of the Constitution.
Assist in coordinating parliamentary questions, research, queries, legal
opinions, substantive and procedural requirements on applications of sections
100 and 139 of the Constitution.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Thenga Tel No: (012) 334 0845/ 064 811 1787
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
response2@multilead.co.za For application enquiries contact Sphamandla
Ndlovu Tel No: (011) 763 1103/4
POST 33/16 : SENIOR PROJECT COORDINATOR: COMMUNITY WORK PROGRAMME
(GAUTENG) REF NO: SPC-CWP-04
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Social Science or
equivalent qualification at NQF level 6/7 as recognised by SAQA. 2-3 years’
experience in a related field. Proficiency in MS Excel and MS Word. Driver’s
License and travelling. Additional Requirements (Advantage): Project
Management. Generic Competencies: Quality of work. Initiative. Reliability.
Interpersonal Relations. Planning and Execution. Teamwork. Communication
(verbal and written). Technical Competencies: Knowledge and understanding
of Community Work Programme. Policy Development. Poverty eradication and
Job creation.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Provide
administration support in the implementation of CWP. Implement financial and
procurement policies and procedures. Coordinate the maintenance and
monitor existence and tracking of CWP asset management in assigned
province. Monitor programme performance through site visits and submit
reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Mookeng at 066 484 9205
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to: SPC-CWP-
04@tttrecruitment.co.za. For application enquiries contact: To the T
Recruitment at 067 391 7387
16
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025 at 16h00 (Applications received after the closing date and
faxed copies will not be considered).
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on form Z83 (effective 01 January 2021),
obtainable from the website of the Department of Public Service and
Administration at www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc and should be
accompanied by a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV) only. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit relevant certified copies of qualifications
/relevant documentation. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA).
The shortlisted candidates will be subjected to two (2) pre-entry assessments
of which one will be a practical exercise and the other must be an Integrity
(Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection Committee shall score both technical
exercise as an additional criterion in the interview process. The practical
exercise shall determine the candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and shall comprise a formal test to
determine a candidate’s proficiency Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment
shall be conducted to determine the candidate’s grasp of the ethical principles,
ethical decision-making abilities and ethical standards relevant to public
service. The logistics of which will be communicated by the department on the
date of the interview. Additional to this, the shortlisted candidates will be
required to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (competency
based assessments) as mandated by the Department of Public Service and
Administration Senior Management Service competency assessment tools.
The competency assessment will be limited to successful candidates in the
interview process only. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability checks (pre-employment screening) which may include social media
profiles checks. A successful candidate will have to undergo a full security
vetting while in the employ of the department and negative outcome shall nullify
employment contract (Top Secret security clearance). Failure to submit the
required documents will result in your application not being considered.
Successful candidates will be required to disclose their financial interests within
one (1) month of appointment. The successful candidate will be required to
enter into an employment contract and performance agreement with the
Secretary for Defence. Applicants must quote the relevant reference number
provided. Applications received after the closing date will not be considered.
Failure to comply with the above instructions will result in applications being
disqualified. The department reserves the right not to make appointment to the
advertised post. Due to the large volumes of applications anticipated,
correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 33/17 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: ACCOUNTING REF NO: FMD/28/33/25
Financial Management Division
Chief Directorate Accounting
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive salary package), which
consists of a basic salary (70% of package, employer‘s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion to be structured
according to Senior Management Service Guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A senior Certificate with Bachelor’s Degree in Accounting/ Financial
Management/ Management Accounting/ Auditing qualification (NQF 7) as
recognised by SAQA. Post Graduate Degree (BCom Honours) in
Accounting/Financial Management/Management Accounting/ Auditing will be
added advantage. Must have 5 years proven experience at senior managerial
level. The successful candidate must have Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-
entry Programme Certificate. To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course
17
and for further details, please click https://thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-
pre-enrty-programme/. Kindly note that there is specific amount to be paid in
order to enrol for the course. Special requirements (Skills needed): Knowledge
of Public Management and Administration, Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Treasury Regulations and related practice notes, Government
Financial processes and procedures. Resources control processes,
Spreadsheets, Word processing, presentation and database packages
(preferably MS Office packages). Experience in working with database and
information systems, sound knowledge of accounting and financial reporting
processes and procedures of National Departments. Extensive knowledge of
processes and procedures generally used to detect irregularities, well
developed financial management skills, sound strategic capability and strong
leadership skills, knowledge of computer software related to operating system.
Impeccable integrity, excellence orientated, assertiveness, portray a positive
self-image, self-motivated, adaptability, excellent communication skills (written
and verbal), judgement, ability to cope under pressure.
DUTIES : Strategic Management of the Chief Directorate Accounting including providing
direction for the preparation and execution of service delivery plans, resource
plans, Interim and Annual Financial Statements and related budgets. Financial
Management in terms of the PFMA, Section 45 and related Department of
Defence (DOD) instructions. Supervise service delivery regarding 30 day
payments, annual/quarterly/monthly reporting, revenue management, payroll
management, banking and cash management services and debt management.
Represent the CFO during his/her absence and represent the CFO on the
following forums, CFO`s forum, accounting standard board workshops,
permanent Force Medical Continuation Fund, Group Life Insurance Scheme,
and the Financial Management Board. Understand the Modified Cash
Standard of accounting (MCS) and lead the implementation towards accrual
accounting. Identify risks and develop controls to mitigate the risks. Oversee
the audit process for the Chief Directorate and execute audit adjustments to
the Annual Financial Statements. To implement the financial accounting
regulatory frameworks, Treasury practice notes and Treasury financial
reporting guides. Review and correct irregular financial exceptions. Adequate
systems to support regulatory framework. Identify financial system upgrade
requirement, on need basis. Financial Management Systems (FMS), interim
financial accounting enhancements. Identify new system development
requirement, on need basis. Direct and manage grievances of employees.
Ensure employees know grievance management process of DOD. Attend to
and preside over grievance process.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A.E. Abotsi Tel No: (012) 355 6218
APPLICATIONS : To the Department of Defence, Human Resources Division (Chief Directorate
HR Management), Private Bag X976, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivered to Bank
of Lisbon (Cnr Paul Kruger and Visagie Street) or e-mailed to
dhrcm.staffing@dod.mil.za
NOTE : The Department of Defence is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively (race, gender and
disability). The candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will
promote representatively will receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025 at 16h00
POST 33/18 : DIRECTOR: INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEM REF NO:
DIMS/28/33/25
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package), which
consists of a basic salary (70% of package, employer‘s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion to be structured
according to Senior Management Service Guidelines.
CENTRE : Armscor Building, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A senior Certificate with Bachelor’s Degree/ Advance Diploma in Management
Services/Operations/Production Management or related qualification (NQF 7)
as recognised by SAQA. Must have 5 years proven experience at
middle/senior managerial level in Organisational Design environment which
includes, organisational structure design, job evaluation and business process
management. The Job Evaluation Panel Training and Advanced Management
Development Program will be an added advantage. The successful candidate
must have Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry Programme Certificate. To
access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click
18
https://thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-enrty-programme/. Kindly note
that there is specific amount to be paid in order to enrol for the course. Special
requirements (Skills needed): In depth understanding of Department of
Defence (DOD) mandate in terms of Business Process Architecture,
Organisational Design and Integration of Management Systems in the DOD for
better outcomes. In depth knowledge of various applicable legislative
frameworks such as the Public Service Act (PSA), Public Service Regulations
(PSR), Labour Relations Act (LRA) Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
Treasury Regulations and Department of Public Service and Administration
(DPSA) organisational design guidelines and directives. Theoretical and
practical knowledge of the functional area of organisational design. Knowledge
of new developments in organisational design, operations management
framework and job analysis. Knowledge of planning, reporting, supply chain
management and HR Administration. Formulation and management of
organisational design policies, plans and reports. Development and
implementation of systems and controls to ensure sound job evaluation
reporting. Computer literacy in MS Office and JE System. Ability to effectively
and correctly interpret and apply policy instructions and regulations. Ability to
develop effective management reports and to present at senior level fora.
Proven advanced writing skills, proof reading, editing and overwriting skills,
including report writing and submission. Problem solving and decision making.
Project Management. Team leadership. Strongly self-motivated leader with
good leadership qualities. Resolve conflicts decisively. Work independently
under pressure to meet deadlines. Apply ethics and integrity in the area of
work. Confidentiality Reliability. Flexibility. Teamwork. Planning and execution.
DUTIES : Develop and manage Departmental Management Services Policies,
Procedures, Plans, SOP’s, Instructions and Guidelines. Manage
Organisational Structure Services. Co-ordinate the Department of Defence
(DOD) business process architecture as well as the Operational Management
Framework (OMF). Manage the administrative support function of the
directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J.P. Bester Tel No: (012) 355 6344
APPLICATIONS : To the Department of Defence, Human Resources Division (Chief Directorate
HR Management), Private Bag X976, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivered to Bank
of Lisbon (Cnr Paul Kruger and Visagie Street) or e-mailed to
dhrcm.staffing@dod.mil.za
NOTE : The Department of Defence is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively (race, gender and
disability). The candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will
promote representatively will receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025 at 16h00
POST 33/19 : DIRECTOR: RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: DPSP/28/33/25
This post is being advertised internally and in the broader Public Service
Circular.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package), which
consists of a basic salary (70% of package, employer‘s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion to be structured
according to Senior Management Service Guidelines.
CENTRE : Armscor Building, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A senior Certificate with Bachelor’s Degree/ Advance Diploma in Risk
Management/ Accounting and Auditing or Compliance qualification (NQF 7) as
recognised by SAQA. Must have 5 years proven experience at middle/senior
managerial level. The successful candidate must have Nyukela Public Service
SMS Pre-entry Programme Certificate. To access the SMS pre-entry certificate
course and for further details, please click https://thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-enrty-programme/. Kindly note that there is specific amount to
be paid in order to enrol for the course. Special requirements (Skills needed):
Knowledge of Government MTSF Policies, Government Policies, PFMA,
National Treasury Regulations, Public Service Regulations and the Public
Sector Risk Management Framework. Knowledge of ERM Frameworks, Risk
Management prescripts, standards and wider intra-departmental activities in
government. Affiliation with relevant professional bodies (IRMSA, IIA,
Compliance, Ethics, ACFE etc.) Previously experience in facilitating the work
of and reporting to Oversight or Governance Committee will be considered an
added advantage. Quantitative techniques. Appropriate exposure within the
19
risk management environment and knowledge and understanding of core
processes in the Public Service. Strong knowledge of Compliance, Fraud and
Ethics Management. Ability to effectively and correctly interpret and apply
policy, instructions and regulations. Ability to develop effective management
reports and to present at senior level FORA. Able to work independently under
pressure and to travel as necessary. Well-developed verbal and written
communication skills, specifically in English. Good interpersonal and HR
management skills. Strong orientation towards delivering effective, efficient
service and aiming for zero defects. Strongly self-motivated leader with good
leadership qualities. Ability to work effectively with figures. Through knowledge
of microcomputer applications Word for Windows, Excel and PowerPoint.
Analytical and innovative thinking ability as well as problem solving skills.
Proven ability to design, develop, implement and maintain effective
management plans in support of the Defence Policy, Strategy and Planning
process.
DUTIES : Provide and maintain Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) policy, strategy and
instructions. Co-ordinate the ERM process in the Department of Defence
(DOD). Provide ERM performance monitoring, control and accountability.
Facilitate the enterprise risks oversight process. Manage the internal ERM
directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S.J. Nkosi Tel No: (012) 355 6269
APPLICATIONS : To the Department of Defence, Human Resources Division (Chief Directorate
HR Management), Private Bag X976, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivered to Bank
of Lisbon (Cnr Paul Kruger and Visagie Street) or e-mailed to
dhrcm.staffing@dod.mil.za
NOTE : The Department of Defence is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively (race, gender and
disability). The candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will
promote representatively will receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025 at 16h00
POST 33/20 : DIRECTOR: CONVENTIONAL ARM CONTROL REF NO: DIA/28/33/25
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), which consists of a basic
salary (70% of package, employer‘s contribution to the Government Employee
Pension Fund and a flexible portion to be structured according to Senior
Management Service Guidelines.
CENTRE : Armscor Building, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A senior Certificate with Bachelor’s Degree/ Advance Diploma qualification
(NQF 7) as recognised by SAQA. Must have 5 years proven experience at
middle/senior managerial level. The successful candidate must have Nyukela
Public Service SMS Pre-entry Programme Certificate. To access the SMS pre-
entry certificate course and for further details, please click
https://thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-enrty-programme/. Kindly note
that there is specific amount to be paid in order to enrol for the course.
Understanding of the subject of regulation of conventional arms trade is
required. Understanding of the disarmament and non-proliferation agenda will
serve as an advantage. Special requirements (Skills needed): The
understanding of Defence Industry Conventional Arms Trade practices is
essential. The understanding of the South African conventional arms control
regime as part of the South Africa arms control system is required. Knowledge
in the following general management competencies is strongly recommended,
strategic management, financial management, human resource management
and general operations management. The person to be appointed should have
the following general attributes: Ability to lead and give direction to a team of
professionals. Competency in effective communication and writing. Strong
analytical thinking, problem solving, planning, organizing, administration and
interpersonal relation skills.
DUTIES : Serve as the Head of Secretariat to the National Conventional Arms Control
Committee (NCACC), a Cabinet Committee assigned a responsibility to
regulate conventional arms transfer. Serve as line of communication between
the NCACC, the defence industry and other relevant stakeholders. Facilitate
the regulation of conventional arms transfer in South Africa on behalf of the
NCACC. Manage the processing of various permit (licence) applications for
arms transfers in line with applicable laws and regulations. Prepare NCACC
reports and documents on conventional arms transfer. Manage the NCACC
audit process by the Auditor-General. Advice the NCACC on all issues related
20
to conventional arms control. Ensure the execution of NCACC instruction and
decisions on conventional arm control. Attend meetings incidental to
conventional arms control. Manage the directorate conventional arms control
and its related resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S.D. Dladla Tel No: (012) 355 5216
APPLICATIONS : To the Department of Defence, Human Resources Division (Chief Directorate
HR Management), Private Bag X976, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivered to Bank
of Lisbon (Cnr Paul Kruger and Visagie Street) or e-mailed to
dhrcm.staffing@dod.mil.za
NOTE : The Department of Defence is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively (race, gender and
disability). The candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will
promote representatively will receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025 at 16h00
OTHER POSTS
POST 33/21 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: GRIEVANCE & MISCONDUCT REF NO:
FMD/27/33/25/01
Financial Management Division
Chief Directorate Financial Services
Directorate Finance Support Services, Grievance and Misconduct
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent plus a National Diploma in Labour
Relations/ Human Resource Management or related field at NQF Level 6 as
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years supervisory experience in labour
relations environment. A valid RSA/ Military driver’s license. A B Degree in
Labour Relations/Human Resource Management or related field at NQF Level
7 and Health & Safety/ Health and Wellness experience courses will be an
added advantage Special requirements (Skills needed): Proven
training/experience in labour relations, mainly on disciplinary processes and
grievance procedures in the Public Service. Sound knowledge of disciplinary
processes and grievance procedures in the Public Service. Sound knowledge
of the LRA, BCEA, EEA, OHS, etc. Communicate with stakeholders. Be flexible
and work under pressure. Problem-solving, communication, negotiation,
investigation and report writing skills.
DUTIES : Manage and execute the following functions for the Financial Management
Division: Discipline management duties e.g. co-ordinate and execute
consultations with stakeholders, investigations, facilitate training and
appointment of investigators and chairpersons, disciplinary inquiries/hearings,
reporting. Grievance management duties e.g. co-ordinate and execute
consultations with stakeholders, processing grievances, investigations,
reporting, meetings, etc. General labour relations, e.g. implement policies,
resolutions, practices, etc. Provide advisory services, training/information
sessions, etc. Co-ordinate and implement anti-criminality plan. Coordinate and
facilitate implementation of the applicable plans - e.g. health & safety, health &
wellness, anti-criminality, etc. Provide advisory and support service to finance
officials. Manage auxiliary services within the section – i.e. manage
implementation of record management and registry functions. Co-ordinate the
management of resources. i.e. electronic equipment, budget, state vehicles,
personnel, etc. Attend meetings. Travel to provinces when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L.P. Mofokeng Tel No: (012) 392-2539
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted through the post to: Financial Management
Division, DFSS, Career Management Section, Private Bag X137, Pretoria,
0001 or email to Recruit2FMD@dod.mil.za or Recruit3FMD@dod.mil.za. In
case where applicants are stationed in the Pretoria area, applications may be
hand-delivered to: Poynton building, 195 Bosman Street, Pretoria where it must
be placed in wooden post box number 5 at Reception.
NOTE : Financial Management Division is guided by the principle of the Employment
Equity Act; therefore, all the appointments will be made in accordance with the
Employment Equity target of the Division.
21
POST 33/22 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: GRIEVANCE & MISCONDUCT
REF NO: FMD/27/33/25/02
Financial Management Division
Chief Directorate: Financial Services
Directorate: Finance Support Services, Grievance and Misconduct
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent plus a National Diploma in Labour
Relations/Human Resource Management or related field at NQF Level 6 as
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years’ experience in labour relations
environment. A valid RSA/Military driver’s license. A B Degree in Labour
Relations/Human Resource Management or related field at NQF Level 7 and
experience in conducting disciplinary enquiries/hearings will be an added
advantage Special requirements (Skills needed): Proven training/experience in
labour relations. Sound knowledge of the LRA, BCEA, EEA, etc. Communicate,
investigate, report and mediate. Be flexible and work under pressure. Problem-
solving, communication, negotiation, investigation and report writing skills.
DUTIES : Execute the following for the Financial Management Division (FMD): Duties
regarding employees’ discipline e.g. execute duties regarding misconduct
cases (including financial misconducts) e.g investigations, disciplinary
inquiries, hearings and liaising with role-players. Provide advisory and support
services, training/information sessions, reporting, appointment of investigators
and chairpersons of disciplinary inquiries, etc. Duties regarding employees’
grievances e.g registrations, investigations, training/information sessions,
reporting, etc. Arrange and participate in meetings, e.g grievance committee.
Assist to implement grievance policies, resolutions, plans, instruction, etc.
Assist to implement the Anti-Criminality plan e.g participate in preparation,
implementation and reporting duties, etc. Provide advisory and support service.
Assist to execute administrative duties in the section e.g co-ordinate and
supervise registry services & record management, budget (e.g planning and
procurement) & assets (e.g state vehicles), leave administration (e.g co-
ordinate submission of attendance registers & leaves, etc). Attend meetings.
Travel to provinces/provinces when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L.P. Mofokeng Tel No: (012) 392-2539
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted through the post to: Financial Management
Division, DFSS, Career Management Section, Private Bag X137, Pretoria,
0001 or email to Recruit2FMD@dod.mil.za or Recruit3FMD@dod.mil.za. In
case where applicants are stationed in the Pretoria area, applications may be
hand-delivered to: Poynton building, 195 Bosman Street, Pretoria where it must
be placed in wooden post box number 5 at Reception
NOTE : Financial Management Division is guided by the principle of the Employment
Equity Act; therefore, all the appointments will be made in accordance with the
Employment Equity target of the Division.
22
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 00:00 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the correct
job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your email.
Use the correct email address associated with the post. JPEG
(picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Failure to do so, your
application will be disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference
number must be submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate’s
suitability based on the posts’s technical and generic requirements. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) Your
information will be used soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. If you
have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below
advertised post(s). The successful candidate will be required to enter into an
employment contract and a performance agreement. The Department is an
equal opportunity affirmative action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of
the Department shall inform the employment decision. It is the Department’s
intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of
this post(s)
ERRATUM: These posts were advertised on Public Service Vacancy Circular
31 dated 29 August 2025 with a closing date of 12 September 2025. Please
note the link provided for responses for the application of the Departmental
Trainee Employment Counsellors Programmes for the years 2025-2026 is
incorrect consequently applicants are unable to direct applications. Here is the
attached correct link:
https://crs.labour.gov.za/sap/bc/ui5_ui5/sap/zcommreg_new/index.html
Therefore, the Department encourages qualified graduates to follow the link to
send their applications. The program initially offered 130 available positions
23
which now increased to 150 positions allocations as follows: Provincial Office:
Gauteng– Ref No: GP/2025/08/91206022 (X18 posts), Provincial Office:
KwaZulu-Natal-Reference No: ZN/2025/08/91204620 (X19 posts), Provincial
Office: Eastern Cape-Reference No: EC/2025/08/91206037 (X19 posts),
Provincial Office: Western Cape- Ref No: WC/2025/08/90894267 (X20 posts),
Provincial Office: Mpumalanga- Ref No: MP/2025/08/91206044 (X10 posts),
Provincial Office: North West- Ref No: NW/2025/08/91206018 (X16 posts),
Provincial Office: Northern Cape- Ref No: NC/2025/08/91201065 (X15 posts),
Provincial Office: Limpopo- Ref No: LP/2025/08/91206054 (X19 posts) and
Provincial Office: Free State- Ref No: FS/2025/08/91205363 (X14 posts).
Therefore, the closing date for these posts is extended to 29 September 2025.
Apologies for inconveniences. Essa Sysytem Enquiries: Email:
Pes@Labour.gov.za or contact the Alteram Call centre on 086 010 1018
OTHER POSTS
POST 33/23 : DEVELOPER REF NO: HR4/4/3/2D/UIF
(1 Year Contract)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three (3) year tertiary qualification in Information Technology/ Computer
Science/ Information Systems at NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. Five
(5) years functional experience of which three (3) years must be functional
experience in Information Technology (IT) environment (Java System
Development, Support Maintenance).and two (2) years at management level.
Knowledge: Public Financial Management Act (PFMA). Promotion of Access to
Information Act (PAIA). Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA). Protected
Disclosure Act. Labour Relations Act (LRA). Public Service Regulations (PSR)
Public Service Act (PSA). Unemployment Insurance Act (UIA). Unemployment
Insurance Contributions Act (UICA). Java Application Tool. Skills: Meticulous
attention to detail. People Management. Conflict Management. Strong Analytic
Skill Problem Solving. Presentation. Planning and Organizing. Communication.
Computer Literacy. Report Writing. Creativity The ability to prioritize tasks.
Driving.
DUTIES : Manage the interpretation of compiled business requirements and technical
specification documents. Develop the system solutions for the Fund utilising
the Java Application Tools. Manage system fault diagnosis and fix bugs
Optimise Enterprise application. Integrate 3rd party applications internal and
external. Manage resources in the Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr KR Makweya Tel No: (012) 337 1482/ 1422
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF1@labour.gov.za, Acting Chief Director: Corporate Services: P
O Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and
Pretorius Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
POST 33/24 : SYSTEM ANALYST REF NO: HR4/4/3/2SA/UIF
(1 Year Contract)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Information Technology/ Computer Science/
Information Systems at NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. Four (4) years’
experience of which two (2) year must be functional experience in Information
Technology (IT) environment (System Analyst/Business Analyst/ Software
Developer) and two (2) years at supervisory level. Knowledge: Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA).
Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA), Protected Disclosure Act. Labour
Relations Act (LRA). Public Service Regulations (PSR). Public Service Act
(PSA). Unemployment Insurance Act (UIA). Unemployment Insurance
Contributions Act (UICA). System Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Skills:
Problem Solving. Presentation. Planning and Organizing. Strong Analytic Skill.
Technical Communication Skills. Both Written and Verbal. Ability to influence.
Computer Literacy Computer. Systems Report Writing. Project Management.
DUTIES : Examine the current and new systems of the Fund. Facilitate the compilation
of technical specification document. Facilitate the compilation of system
prototype for the existing and new systems of the Fund. Quality assure the
Systems. Manage Resources in the Sub-Directorate.
24
ENQUIRIES : Mr SK Skhosana Tel No: (012) 337 1613
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF2@labour.gov.za, Acting Chief Director: Corporate Services: P
O Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and
Pretorius Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
POST 33/25 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: OPERATIONS SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO:
HR4/4/3/2ASDOSS/UIF (X4 POSTS)
(1 Year Contract)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) as recognised by SAQA in
Administration/ Public Management/ Public Administration/ Administrative
Management/ Operations Management/ Business Administration/ Operations
Research/ Finance. Four (4) years’ experience of which two (2) years must be
functional experience in Operations environment and two (2) years’ experience
at Practitioner level. Knowledge: Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA).
Labour Relations Act (LRA). Skills: Communication. People Management.
Listening. Computer Literacy. Time Management. Analytical. Numeracy.
Interpersonal. Report writing. Planning and Organizing.
DUTIES : Facilitate provincial operational performance. Coordinate the implementation
of new operational policies and procedures. Provide operational services in
provincial offices to ensure consistency. Manage resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr AP Ragavaloo Tel No: (012) 337 1882
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF3@labour.gov.za, Acting Chief Director: Corporate Services: P
O Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and
Pretorius Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
POST 33/26 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: COMPLIANCE SERVICES REF NO:
HR4/4/3/1SPCS/UIF (X5 POSTS)
(1 Year Contract)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year Tertiary Qualification (NQF level 6) in Internal Audit / Auditing /
Accounting / Financial Management. Two (2) years functional experience in
Financial / Auditing / Compliance environment. Knowledge: Unemployment
Insurance Act and Regulations. Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act.
Public Finance Management Act. Treasury Regulations. Public Service
Regulations and Act. Generally Accepted Accounting Practices (GAAP).
Generally Recognized Accounting Practices. Protection of Personal
Information Act (POPI Act). Skills: Communication. Listening. Computer
literacy (MS Office Suite. Interpersonal. Time Management. Report Writing.
Planning and organizing Numeracy. Financial.
DUTIES : Verify employers’ information on the operational system. Identify employers’
non-compliance. Provide support in declaration reconciliation and contribution
information.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SN Gumede Tel No: (012) 337 1448
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF5@labour.gov.za, Acting Chief Director: Corporate Services: P
O Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and
Pretorius Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
POST 33/27 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
HR4/4/3/1SPTD/UIF
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Human Resource Management /
Development / Training and Development / Training and Development /
Management of Training / Industrial and Organisational Psychology at NQF
Level 6 as recognised by SAQA. Two (2) years functional experience in
Training/ Learning and Development environment. Knowledge: Public Service
Act (PSA). Public Service Regulations (PSR). Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA) Human Resource Development Policies. Human Resource Systems
(PERSAL). Skills Development Act (SDA). Skills Development Levies Act
(SDLA). Labour Relation Act (LRA). Basic Condition of Employment Act.
25
Employment Equity Act (EEA). Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA).
Project Management. Diversity Management. OD-ETDP. Skills:
Communication (Verbal and Written). Computer literacy. People Management.
Project Management. Presentation. Report writing. Time management. Design
and Development. Organizing and Planning. Problem Solving.
DUTIES : Implement Human Resource Development Programmes. Provide support in
the implementation of the workplace skills plan programmes. Compile and
update training manuals. Provide Bursary Administrative Support Services.
Render Compulsory Induction and orientation programmes. Supervisee
Resources (Human, Finance, Equipment / Assets).
ENQUIRIES : Mr VG Kegakilwe Tel No: (012) 337 1710
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF4@labour.gov.za, Acting Chief Director: Corporate Services: P
O Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and
Pretorius Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
NOTE : African Females, Coloured Males, Indian Males, Indian Females, White Males
and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 33/28 : OHS INSPECTOR: CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING REF NO: HR/4/4/6/07
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: East London
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/ Grade 12/ Senior Certificate plus a 3-year tertiary qualification at
NQF 6 in Electrical/Mechanical Engineering/ Environmental Health/ Analytical
Chemistry/ Chemical Engineering/ Civil & Construction Engineering. A valid
driver license. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, as amended, Regulations (21), South
African National Standards (Codes)- incorporated Codes become regulations,
Compensation for Occupational injuries and Diseases Act, Unemployed
Insurance Act. Skills: Planning and organizing, Communication skills,
Computer Literacy, Facilitation skills, Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling
skills, Negotiation skills, Problem solving skills, Interviewing skills, Presentation
skills, Innovation skills, Analytical skills, Verbal and written communication
skills.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. To confirm registration of with the
Unemployment Insurance Act and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act. Plan, investigate and finalise independently incidents and
complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and the relevant regulations and
enforce as and when necessary, appear in Court as a State witness. Plan and
conduct allocated proactive inspections as per schedule to monitor compliance
with the relevant labour legislation including compiling and consolidating
reports emanating from such inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy
campaigns on all labour legislation independently, analyse impact thereof,
consolidate and compile report. Contribute at a higher level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including,
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MC Njamela Tel No: (043) 702 7500
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Private Bag X9084, East London
5200 or hand delivered at Cnr. Oxford & Hill Street, East London; Email: Jobs–
ECELN@Labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations
POST 33/29 : INSPECTOR: INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT SERVICES REF NO:
HR4/4/10/52
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Nqanqarhu Labour Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year relevant qualification (NQF6) in Labour Relations/ BCOM Law/
LLB. Valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Departmental Policies and procedures,
Skills Development Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of Employment
Act, Unemployment Insurance Act. Unemployment Insurance Contribution Act.
Skills: Facilitation, Planning and Organising (Own work), Computer (Spread
sheets, Power Point and word processing), Interpersonal, Problem Solving,
26
Interviewing, Analytical, Verbal and written communication, Employment Equity
Act.
DUTIES : Conduct occupational inspections with the aim of ensuring compliance with all
labour legislations. Execute investigations on reported cases pertaining to
contravention of labour legislation and enforce where and when necessary.
Conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with
labour legislation. Conduct advocacy campaigns on identified and allocated
labour legislation. Assist in drafting of inspection plans, reports and compilation
of statistics on allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mvanyashe Tel No: (045) 932 1424
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, P.O. Box 397, Nqanqarhu, 5780,
Hand deliver at 1 Royal Road Nqanqarhu,5780. Email: Jobs-
ECMCR@labour.gov.za
POST 33/30 : SENIOR ASDMINISTRATION CLERK: OPERATIONS SUPPORT SERVICES
NO: HR4/4/3/1SACOSS/UIF (X2 POSTS)
(1 Year Contract)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate. No experience required. Knowledge: Public Service
Regulations (PSR). Public Service Act (PSA). Public Financial Management
Act (PFMA). Labour Relation Act (LRA). Skills: Computer Literacy. Minutes
Writing. Communication (verbal and written). Planning and Organising. Time
Management.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Provide personnel administration
clerical support services within the Sub-Directorate. Provide supply chain
support services within the Sub-Directorate. Provide financial administration
support services in the Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Y Nambviluwa Tel No: (012) 337 1821
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF6@labour.gov.za, Acting Chief Director: Corporate Services: P
O Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and
Pretorius Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
POST 33/31 : SENIOR ASDMINISTRATION CLERK: FLEET MANAGEMENT REF NO:
HR4/4/3/1SACFM/UIF (X2 POSTS)
(1 Year Contract)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate/Senior Certificate or equivalent. A valid code 8 EB driving
license. No experience required. Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA). Departmental policies and procedures. National Road Transport Act.
Basic Administration. Public Service Regulations (PSR). Public Service Act
(PSA). Labour Relations Act (LRA). Basic Conditions of Employment Act
(BCEA). Skills: Computer Literacy. Problem Solving. Planning and Organizing.
Time Management. Report Writing.
DUTIES : Allocate vehicles booked on the vehicle distribution board. Provide effective
fleet administration for the Fund. Render support service in the maintenance
and repair of fleet. Safe keep all fleet documents/records (petrol cards and
vehicle keys-both originals and spares).
ENQUIRIES : Mr RM Mathebula Tel No: (012) 337 1655
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF7@labour.gov.za, Acting Chief Director: Corporate Services: P
O Box 1851, Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivery at corner Lilian Ngoyi and
Pretorius Street, ABSA Towers Building, Pretoria.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, UIF
27
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development’s mandate is to ensure that there is
accessible justice system in our vibrant and evolving constitutional democracy. It is responsible,
amongst others, to enable Access to Justice for all, promote Constitutionalism, Rule of Law, Respect for
Human Rights; and to coordinate the State Litigation and Legal Advisory Services. The Department is
therefore presenting an opportunity to dynamic individuals with relevant competencies to join a dynamic
team in its quest to fulfill its mandate and deliver justice services to the people of South Africa.
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
NOTE : The application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that do
not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for
submission. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications.
All shortlisted candidates for posts will be subjected to a technical and/or
competency assessment. A pre-entry certificate obtained from National School
of Government (NSG) is required before appointment for all SMS positions.
Candidate will complete a financial disclosure form and also be required to
undergo a security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must
provide the Police Clearance certificate from country of origin only when
shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of
vacant posts the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South
Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant
Human Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Reasonable accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities
including where driver’s license is a requirement. Correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not hear from us within 3
months of this advertisement, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Target.
OTHER POSTS
POST 33/32 : FAMILY ADVOCATE (LP7-LP8) REF NO: 2025/76/GP
This is a re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied need not re-
apply.
SALARY : R932 904 – R1 539 321 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Family Advocate: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree or recognised 4-year legal qualification; Admission as an
Advocate; Five (5) years appropriate post qualification litigation experience;
Knowledge of Foundations of South African law, South African private law,
Constitutional law, Criminal law, Intellectual property, Evidence and African
Customary Law, Muslim Personal Law, Private International Law, Children’s
Act, The Hague Convention of the Civil Aspects of International Child
Abduction, Maintenance Act, reciprocal enforcement of Maintenance Orders
Act, Child Care Act, Extensive knowledge of all local and international
Legislation that regulates protection of children; Knowledge of the South
African legal system, legal practices and related spheres with specific
reference to civil litigation and the law of contract; Knowledge of the
Constitution, the Institution of Legal Proceedings Against Certain Organs of
State Act, State Attorney Act, the Public Finance Management Act, the
Treasury Regulations. Knowledge and experience in office administration; A
28
valid driver’s licence. Skills and Competencies: Good communication skills,
both verbal and writing; Litigation and Advocacy skills; Research, investigation,
monitoring, evaluation and report writing skills with intention to detail; Diversity
management; Dispute and Conflict resolution skills; Computer literacy; Case
Flow Management.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Perform all functions and duties of the Family
Advocate in accordance with relevant legislation; Monitor the provisioning of
forensic and risk social work services; Monitor and implement the provisions of
the Hague Convention on Civil aspects of International Child Abduction;
Manage and implement the provision of Forensic Social Work Social Work
services; Manage and provide administrative support services; Attend to all
relevant circuit courts within the Province.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. RR Moabelo Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Provincial
Office-Gauteng, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 OR Physical Address:
Provincial Office–Gauteng; Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; 7th floor Schreiner chambers, 94 Pritchard, Johannesburg or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 33/33 : STATE LAW ADVISOR (LP7-LP8) REF NO: 25/89/LD (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R932 904 – R1 539 321 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : South African Law Reform Commission: Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : LLB Degree or recognized 4 year legal qualification; At least 5 years’
appropriate post qualification in litigation/legal advisory experience; Admission
as an Advocate or Attorney; Knowledge of the Constitutional and laws of the
RSA; Knowledge of the South African legal system, legal practices and related
spheres with specific reference to civil litigation and the law of contract;
Knowledge of the Constitution of South Africa, the Institution of Legal
Proceedings Against Certain Organs of State Act; Knowledge of the Public
Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Departmental Financial
Instructions and State Liability Act. Skills and Competencies: Applied strategic
thinking; Applied technology; Budgeting and financial management;
Communication and information management; Continuous improvement;
Diversity management; Impact and influence; Conflict management; Planning
and organizing; Problem solving and decision making; Computer literacy;
Project management.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Plan and conduct research, including comparative
legal research in respect of the law of South Africa; Conduct extensive
consultation with stakeholders with a view to obtain inputs and comment on
draft research papers; Develop proposals for the development, improvement
and modernization of the South African Law Reform; Develop recommendation
and draft legislation for law Reform; Prepare issue papers, discussion papers
and reports that contain research, recommendations and draft legislation for
law reform; Conduct Socio Economic Impact Analysis on research and
legislative proposal.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R. Sema Tel No: (012) 315 3333
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address:
Application Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Street, Pretoria OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 33/34 : SENIOR ASSISTANT STATE ATTORNEY (LP5-LP6) REF NO: 25/45/FS (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R630 630 – R1 450 323 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : State Attorney, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB or 4 year recognized legal qualification; At least 4 years appropriate
post qualification legal/litigation experience; Admittance as an Attorney; A
thorough knowledge of legal practice, office management, accounting system
and trust accounts; Knowledge of the government prescripts and
transformation objective as well as the Constitution of South Africa;
29
Conveyancing experience will be an added advantage; A valid driver’s license.
Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy; Legal research and drafting;
Dispute resolution; Case flow management; Communication skills (written and
verbal); Accuracy and attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Represent the State in Litigation and Appeal in the
High Court, Magistrate Courts, Labour Courts, Land Courts, Land Claims
Courts, CCMA, Tax and Tax tribunals; Furnish legal advice and opinions; Draft
and/or settle all types of arrangements on behalf of various clients; Attend to
liquidation and insolvency, queries, conveyancing and notarial services; Deal
with all forms of arbitration, including inter-departmental arbitration; Register
trust and debt collection; Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Dywili at 073 775 0709
APPLICATIONS : Please direct your applications to: The Director: Human Resource, Private Bag
X20578, Bloemfontein, 9300 No 108 St Andrew Street, Bloemfontein OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 33/35 : COURT INTERPRETER REF NO: 2025/75/GP
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Moretele
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4/ Grade 12 or equivalent qualification; Three months Practical
experience will be an added advantage; Driver’s license will be an added
advantage. Proficiency in English and one or more indigenous languages;
Language requirements: English, Setswana, Isizulu or Xitsonga. Skills and
Competencies: Communication skills; Listening skills; Interpersonal skills;
Time management; Computer literacy; Analytical thinking; Problem solving;
Planning and organizing; Confidentiality; Ability to work under pressure;
Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Interpret in Criminal Court, Civil Court, Labour Court,
quasi-judicial proceedings; Interpret during consultation; Translate legal
documents and exhibits; Record cases in criminal record book; Draw case
records on request of the Magistrate and Prosecutors; Keep records of
statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Shiburi Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Provincial
Office-Gauteng, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 Or Physical Address:
Provincial Office–Gauteng; Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; 7th floor Schreiner chambers, 94 Pritchard, Johannesburg Or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 33/36 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: 2025/74/GP
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Westonaria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent. Skills and Competencies: Good
communication skills (written and verbal); Computer Literacy (MS Office);
Administrative and organization skill; Ability to work under pressure; Customer
service; Document management and filing; Interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render general clerical support services; Provide
supply chain clerical support services within the component; Provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component; Provide financial
administration support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Gauteng: Ms V Shiburi Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Office, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 Or Physical address:
Department of Justice and Constitutional Development; 7th floor Schreiner
Chambers, 94 Pritchard Street; Johannesburg Or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 33/37 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (DCRS) REF NO: 2025/73/GP
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Westonaria
30
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent qualification; Skills and Competencies:
Communication skills (verbal and written); Above average computer literacy;
Good interpersonal relations; Ability to work under pressure and also solve
problems; Customer service; Knowledge of document management and filing.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Conduct daily court recordings; Prepare and setup
the recording machines and ensuring that microphones are functioning; Report
all malfunctions from the machines; Recording of court proceedings; Keep
record of all the requests for transcription and record time spent in court per
case; Ensure proper management of digital recording of court proceedings and
integrity of records; Capturing of cases on ECMS/ ICMS daily; Ensure correct
equipment is available for children and disabled; Prepare court records for
Appeal and Review; Render assistance in general case flow management;
Perform other administration duties as directed by the Court Manager from time
to time.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Shiburi Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Office, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 Or Physical address:
Department of Justice and Constitutional Development; 7th floor Schreiner
Chambers, 94 Pritchard Street; Johannesburg or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
31
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF MINERAL AND PETROLEUM RESOURCES
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are urged to choose/ utilise one of the methods provided above.
You may forward your application, quoting reference, addressed to: The
Director-General, Department of Mineral and Petroleum Resources, Private
Bag X59, Arcadia, 0007. Alternatively, applications may also be hand delivered
to Trevenna Campus, corner Meintjies and Francis Baard Street, former
Schoeman. Another option is to submit application through email as a Single
scanned document/ One PDF attachment to the email addresses specified for
each position. (Kindly note that the emailed applications and attachments
should not exceed 15mb). General enquiries may be brought to the attention
of Ms T Gumede Tel No: (012) 444- 3319
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
NOTE : The Department of Mineral and Petroleum Resources (DMPR) is an equal
opportunity; affirmative action employer and it is its intention to promote
representivity in the Public Sector through the filling of this post. Persons
whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity are
encouraged to apply, particularly persons with disabilities and women
interested in senior management positions. An indication of such, in this regard
will be vital in the processing of applications. N.B: Kindly note that the
Department provides for four methods of submitting a job application, namely:
Post, courier, hand delivery and email. Applications must be submitted on the
recent Z83 application form which came into effect from 01 January 2021 as
issued by the Minister of Public Service Administration in line with regulation
10 of the Public Service Regulations, 2016 as amended, which is obtainable
online from www.gov.za and www.dpsa.gov.za. All sections of the Z83 must be
completed (In full, accurately, legibly, honestly, initialled, signed and dated),
and accompanied by a comprehensive/ detailed Curriculum Vitae only.
Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a detailed Curriculum
Vitae. Certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents will be
required from shortlisted candidates only on or before the day of the interview.
The Curriculum Vitae must have at least three (3) reference persons and their
contacts. Failure to provide accurate information on a job application as well
as incomplete information will result in a disqualification. Job applicants in
possession of a foreign qualification(s), must also provide an evaluation
certificate obtainable from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). If
an invitation for an interview is not received within three (3) months after the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Requirements
stated on the advertised posts are minimum inherent requirements; therefore,
criteria for shortlisting will depend on the proficiency of the applications
received. Shortlisted candidates will be assessed through practical exercise
and an oral interview. Applicants must note that personnel suitability checks
(PSC) will be conducted on the short-listed applicants, therefore will be
required to give consent in terms of the POPI Act in order for the Department
to conduct this exercise. PSC includes security screening and vetting,
qualification verification, criminal records, financial records checks. Applicants
who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well as
application received after the closing date will not be considered. If an applicant
wishes to withdraw an application, He/ She must do so in writing. It is also
important to note that the Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised post at any stage of the recruitment process.
OTHER POSTS
POST 33/38 : SENIOR VETTING INVESTIGATOR REF NO: 037
This is a re-advert, candidates who applied previously are encouraged to re-
apply.
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Security Risk Management/ Safety and Security
Management/ Social Science/ Criminology /Criminal Psychology/ Forensic
Investigation/Policing/Police Science/ Law (NQF 6) Plus minimum of 3 year’s
investigation experience Plus certificate in Security Vetting
32
(SSA/SAPS/SANDF) and Driver’s licence: Knowledge of: Departmental
policies, MISS document, Record management. Security Risks. Security
Vetting, related Acts, Vetting legislation and procedures and strategies. Skills:
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making, programme and project
management. Team leadership. Analytical. Creativity. Self-management.
Financial management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication
skills. Computer skills, Delegation and developmental of others. Planning,
organising and execution. Ability to management conflict. Diplomacy.
Language proficiency. Listening and insight skills. Interviewing skills. Thinking
Demand: Analytical thinking and creativity.
DUTIES : Conduct vetting field-work investigations. Provide inputs for the development
and implementation of policies, guidelines, norms and standards in vetting
investigations. Ensure effective communication channels and systems
between the Department and the State Security Agency and other related
agencies. Administer files and partake in task teams dealing with matters
related to vetting projects/ processes. Provide managerial activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Jacobs at 079 693 8628
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment03@dmpr.gov.za
NOTE : Indian, Coloured or White female and persons with disabilities are encouraged
to apply. Note: Candidate will undergo practical exercise and integrity
assessments. Candidates who are applying online are requested to upload one
document as attachment on a PDF format.
POST 33/39 : DRIVER/ MESSENGER REF NO: 038
Office of the Deputy Minister: Mineral and Petroleum Resources
This is a re-advert, candidates who applied previously are encouraged to re-
apply.
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 with no experience and a valid driver’s licence. PLUS the following
key competencies: Knowledge of: Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public
Service, Broad knowledge and understanding of the functional areas covered
by the executive authority’s portfolio, working knowledge of the political and
parliamentary processes in South Africa Skills: computer literacy.
Communication skills (verbal and written). Creativity and innovation.
Interpersonal skills, Thinking Demand: Logical. Creative/Innovative thinker.
Objective. Accurate. Diplomatic.
DUTIES : Collect and deliver documents, Transport employees in the office of the Deputy
Minister and guests and special advisors of the Deputy Minister, Maintain
knowledge on the policies and procedures that applies in the work
environment. Render a general support function in the office of the Deputy
Minister.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LM Maluleka at 082 303 7721
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment04@dmpr.gov.za
NOTE : Indian, Coloured or White male and persons with disabilities are encouraged
to apply Note: Candidate will undergo practical exercise and integrity
assessments. Candidates who are applying online are requested to upload one
document as attachment on a PDF format.
POST 33/40 : FOOD AIDE SERVICE REF NO: 039
Office of the Deputy Minister: Mineral and Petroleum Resources
This is a re-advert, candidates who applied previously are encouraged to re-
apply.
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : ABET 2 (NQF 1) with no experience PLUS the following key competencies:
Knowledge of: Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public Service portfolio,
Working knowledge of the political and parliamentary processes in South Africa
Skills: communication and diplomatic skills, Thinking Demand: Analytical
thinking and Creativity.
DUTIES : Clean kitchen utensils and equipment, provide catering support services. Keep
stock of kitchen utensils and equipment, apply hygiene and safety measures,
maintain quality control measures of all food provided. Removal of garbage
disposal.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LM Maluleka at 082 303 7721
33
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment05@dmpr.gov.za
NOTE : Indian, Coloured or White male and persons with disabilities are encouraged
to apply Note: Candidate will undergo practical exercise and integrity
assessments. Candidates who are applying online are requested to upload one
document as attachment on a PDF format.
34
ANNEXURE G
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office (Midrand)/: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct
your application to: The Director: Human Resources, Office of the Chief
Justice, Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand deliver applications to
the Office of the Chief Justice, Human Resource Management, 188, 14th
Road, Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685.
Eastern Cape/East London/Makhanda: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief
Justice, Postal Address: Private Bag X13012, Cambridge, 5206, East London.
Applications can also be hand delivered to 59 Western Avenue, Sanlam Park
Building, 2nd Floor, Vincent 5242, East London.
Gauteng: (Provincial Centre), Johannesburg High Court/ Pretoria High
Court/ Labour and Labour Appeals Court: Johannesburg: Quoting the
relevant reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head,
Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X7, Johannesburg, 2000. Applications
can also be hand delivered to the 12th floor, Cnr Pritchard and Kruis Street,
Johannesburg.
KwaZulu-Natal/ Pietermaritzburg/ Durban/ Provincial Service Centre:
Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X54314, Durban,
4001. Applications can also be hand delivered to 1st Floor Office No 118, CNR
Somtseu8 & Stalwart Simelane Streets, Durban, 4000.
Limpopo/ Polokwane/ Thohoyandou: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice
Service Centre, Limpopo, Private Bag X9693, Polokwane, 0700. Applications
can also be hand delivered to the High Court of South Africa: Limpopo Division,
Polokwane, 36 Biccard & Bodenstein Street, Polokwane, 0699.
Northern Cape/Kimberley/Provincial Service Centre/High Court: Quoting
the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head,
Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X5043, Kimberley, 8300 Applications
can also be hand delivered to the High Court, Sol Plaaitjie Drive, Room B107,
Kimberley.
North West/ Provincial Service Centre/ Mmabatho/ Mahikeng: Quoting the
relevant reference number, direct your application to: The OCJ Provincial
Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735.
Applications can also be hand delivered to 22 Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens,
Mmabatho.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
OTHER POSTS
POST 33/41 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2025/238/OCJ
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Division of The High Court: Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : Grade twelve (12). One (1) to three (3) years’ secretarial experience or as an
Office Assistant. A valid driver’s licence. A minimum of 20 modules completed
towards an LLB, BA or BCom Law Degree will serve as an added advantage
and results must accompany the application. Shortlisted candidates will be
required to pass a typing test. Skills and competencies: Proficiency in English.
Good communication skills (verbal and written). Administration and
organizational skills. Exceptional interpersonal skills. Ability to meet strict
deadlines and to work under pressure. Attention to detail. Customer care
service skills and excellent typing skills. Confidentiality and time management.
Computer literacy (MS Word) and research capabilities. All shortlisted
35
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's
technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : To ensure attendance and screening of all incoming and outgoing calls. To
ensure that appointments and meetings of the Judge are diarized. To ensure
that the judgments are typed and correspondences are filed accordingly in the
right sections. To ensure that signed Judgments and orders handed down in
court or virtually are sent to the typist and the library (Judgment only). To ensure
that all visitors are received, screened and their queries are attended to. To
ensure that all incoming and outgoing documents are recorded and filed. To
ensure that stationery for the Judge is ordered and collected. To ensure that
the court files are ready and Judge has all documents in the file on time as per
duty roster. To ensure that all files received from various section(s) are verified
by the Registrar of that section. To ensure that the register of reviews is up to
date and signed on receipt and return of reviews to the review Clerk. To ensure
that he register/template of the reserved judgment is updated and notifying the
Statistics officer as well as the office of the Judge President when judgment
has been handed down. To ensure that the transcribed judgments from
transcribers reach the Judges for approval and signature. To ensure that the
Heads of Arguments from various stakeholders are received filed and verified.
Informing parties involved via e-mail and or telephonically of time and date
when reserved judgments will be handed down, further notifying them on how
the judgement will be handed down. To ensure that the bench book of the
Judge is prepared and files are in court before the court starts or before Judge
enters the court. To ensure that all cases are called and recorded as per court
roll. Calling the case number and the parties’ names on record before Judge
can allow parties to start with their matters. To ensure that the correct Oath ID
or declaration is administered in court, when required. To ensure that the
exhibits are handled, controlled and noted professionally and captured
accordingly. To ensure that the correct order is endorsed on the file and or on
Caselines after it was granted by Judge in court. To ensure that all the travel,
accommodation arrangements are in order on time, attend to sign the
documents being signed prior approval. To ensure that the Judge’s logbook is
submitted on or before 5th of every month to the Transport Officer. To ensure
that the car is booked for either maintenance and service, receive the
preauthorization for the Judge’s vehicle. To remind the Judge of the invoices
so that the submission of the S&T claims can be processed. To ensure the
submissions of Cell phone and 3G data claims for process purposes. To ensure
that court roll(s) is submitted to the Statistical.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr M Mhlontlo Tel No: (047) 504 5500
HR Related Enquiries: Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/238/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 33/42 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2025/220/OCJ (X5 POSTS)
(48 months non-renewable contract)
Re-advertisement, candidates who previously apply are encouraged to re-
apply.
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits. The successful
candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate, an LLB degree or a 4-year legal qualification (or equivalent).
A valid Driver’s license. Shortlisted candidates will be required to pass a typing
proficiency test. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Ensure attendance and screening of all incoming and outgoing calls. To ensure
that judgments are typed, and correspondences is appropriately captured and
saved in the correct locations and safeguarded; Provide general secretarial /
administrative duties to the Judge. Arrange and diarize appointments,
meetings, official visits and make travel and accommodation arrangements.
etc; Perform digital recording of court proceedings urgent court after hours and
ensure integrity of such recordings, store, keep and file court records safely:
after a case has been completed and opinion, decision or judgment entry
released, returns case file to the Registrar; Accompany the Judge to the court
36
and circuit courts; ensure that the register/template for the reserved judgments
is updated timeously and that the Statistics Officer is notified when judgment
remains outstanding and/or has been handed down, Cooperate with Judges,
Supervisors and co-workers as necessary to ensure the smooth and efficient
operation of the Court; Management of Judge’s vehicle and logbook; compile
data and prepares reports and documents for assigned judges as necessary,
including expenses reports, continuing legal hours, financial disclosure
statement, and case management; Arrange receptions for the Judge, and his
visitors and attend to their needs; To remind the Judge of invoices so that the
submission of the S&T claims can be processed. To ensure the submissions of
Cell phone and 3G data claims for process purposes. To ensure that stats are
submitted to the Statistical Officer timeously. To ensure that the Judge’s
logbook is submitted on or before 5th of every month to the Transport Office.
Management of Judge’s Library and updating of loose-leaf publications;
Ensure that the Judge’s stationery is ordered and collected; Execute Legal
research as directed by the Judge. Good communication skills (verbal and
written). Administration and organizational skills. Exceptional interpersonal 22
skills. Ability to meet strict deadlines and to work under pressure. Attention to
detail. Customer service skills and Computer literacy (Ms Word) and including
Dictaphone typing, Confidentiality and time management. Comply with
departmental policies and prescripts and procedures or guidelines.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms R Bramdaw Tel No: (010) 494 8486
HR related enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/220/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 33/43 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2025/221/OCJ (X11 POSTS)
(48 months non-renewable contract)
Re-advertisement, candidates who previously apply are encouraged to re-
apply.
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits. The successful
candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Matric and an LLB degree or a four (4)
year legal qualification (or equivalent). A valid driver's license. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to pass a typing proficiency test. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : To ensure attendance and screening of all incoming and outgoing calls. To
ensure that appointments and meetings of the Judge are diarized. To ensure
that the judgments are typed, and correspondence is appropriately captured
and saved in the correct locations and safeguarded. To ensure that signed
Judgments and orders are properly handed down in person in court and/or
virtually. To ensure that draft judgements are expeditiously handled and typed.
To ensure all visitors in the Judge’s Chambers are received, screened and their
queries are attended to. To ensure that all incoming and outgoing documents
are recorded and filed. To ensure that stationery for the Judge is ordered and
collected. To ensure that the court files are ready, the Judge has access to all
his allocated files and documents in the file on time as per duty roster. To
ensure that all files received from various sections(s) are verified by the
Registrar of that section. To ensure that the Judges Chamber register of
reviews is up to date and signed on receipt and return of review files to the
review Clerk. To ensure that the register/template for the reserved judgements
is updated timeously and that the Statistics Officer as well as the office of the
Judge President is notified when judgement remains outstanding and/or has
been handed down. To ensure that transcribed judgements from transcribers
reach the Judges for approval and signature. To prepare court rolls for
Opposed Motion and Urgent Court and distribute to stakeholders. To ensure
that the Heads of Argument from various stakeholders are received, filed and
verified. Informing parties involved via e-mail and or the time telephonically of
time and date when reserve judgements will be handed down, further notifying
them on how the judgement will be handed down. To ensure that the bench
book of the Judge is prepared, and files are in court before the court starts or
before the Judge enters the court. To ensure that all stakeholders involved are
37
present in court before commencement of proceedings. To ensure that all
cases are called and recorded as per court roll. Calling the case number and
the parties’ names on record before Judge can allow parties to start with their
matters. To ensure that the correct Oath ID or declaration is administered in
court, when required. To ensure that the exhibits are handled, controlled and
noted professionally and captured accordingly. To ensure that the correct order
is endorsed on the file and or on Case lines after it was granted by Judge in
court. To ensure that all the travel and accommodation arrangements are in
order on time, attend to sign the documents being signed prior approval. To
ensure that the Judge’s logbook is submitted on or before 5th of every month
to the Transport Officer. To ensure that the car is booked for either maintenance
and service, receive the pre-authorization for the Judge’s vehicle. To ensure
the submissions of Cell phone and 3G data claims for process purposes. To
ensure that court roll(s) are submitted to the Statistical Officer on or before
every Friday. To ensure that all updates on the loose leafs in the Judge’s library
are attended to. Good communication skills (verbal and written) Administration
and organizational skills. Exceptional interpersonal skills. Ability to meet strict
deadlines and to work under pressure. Attention to detail. Customer service
skills and excellent typing skills including Dictaphone typing. Confidentiality and
time management. Computer literacy (MS Word) and research capabilities.
The Department reserves the right not to make any appointments.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms M Campbell Tel No: (012) 492 6799
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/221/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
POST 33/44 : POOL JUDGE’S SECRETARIES REF NO: 2025/222/OCJ (X3 POSTS)
(12 Months non-renewable Contract)
Re-advertisement, candidates who previously apply are encouraged to re-
apply.
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits. The successful
candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric plus LLB degree; Valid driver’s license. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to pass a typing test Skills and Competencies:
Good written and oral communication skills. Computer literacy (Microsoft
office). Customer services skills. Interpersonal relations skills. Planning skills.
Organising and control. Able to work under pressure. Ability to multi-task.
Problem solving skills. Good interpersonal relations. Skills and competencies:
Proficiency in English, Proficiency in Microsoft Office Programs, Ability to
conduct research Problem solving, Planning and organizing, Ability to maintain
confidentiality, Good judgment and decision-making skills, Good interpersonal
relations with ability to take charge, effective communication (verbally and in
writing),Able to work under pressure, Ability to multitask, Telephone etiquette,
Professionalism, Ability to meet strict deadlines, Time management skills and
People skills. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : To ensure attendance and screening of all incoming and outgoing calls. To
ensure that appointments and meetings of the Judge are diarized. To ensure
that the judgments are typed and correspondences are filed accordingly in the
right sections. To ensure that signed Judgments and orders handed down in
court or virtually are sent to the typist and the library (Judgements only). To
ensure that all visitors are received, screened and their queries are attended
to. To ensure that all incoming and outgoing documents are recorded and filed.
To ensure that stationery for the Judge is ordered and collected. To ensure that
the court files are ready and Judge has all documents in the file on time as per
duty roster. To ensure that all files received from various section(s) are verified
by the Registrar of that section. To ensure that the register of reviews is up to
date and signed on receipt and return of reviews to the review Clerk. To ensure
that he register/template of the reserved judgment is updated and notifying the
Statistics officer as well as the office of the Judge President when judgment
has been handed down. To ensure that the transcribed judgments from
transcribers reach the Judge for approval and signature. To prepare court rolls
for Opposed Motion and Urgent Court and distribute to stakeholders. To ensure
that the Heads of Arguments from various stakeholders are received, filed and
verified. Informing parties involved via e-mail and/or telephonically of time and
38
date when reserved judgments will be handed down, further notifying them on
how the judgement will be handed down. To ensure that the bench book of the
Judge is prepared and files are in court before the court starts or before Judge
enters the court. To ensure that all stakeholders involved are present in court
before commencement of proceedings. To ensure that all cases are called and
recorded as per court roll. Calling the case number and the parties’ names on
record before Judge can allow parties to start with their matters. To ensure that
the correct Oath ID or declaration is administered in court, when required. To
ensure that the exhibits are handled, controlled and noted professionally and
captured accordingly. To ensure that the correct order is endorsed on the
electronic court file after it was granted by Judge in court. To ensure that all the
travel, accommodation arrangements are in order on time, attend to sign the
documents being signed prior approval. To ensure that the Judge’s logbook is
submitted on or before 5th of every month to the Transport Officer. To ensure
that the car is booked for either maintenance and service, receive the
preauthorization for the Judge’s vehicle. To remind the Judge of the invoices
so that the submission of the S&T claims can be processed. To ensure the
submission of Cell phone and 3G data claims for process purposes. To ensure
that court roll(s) is submitted to the Statistical Officer on or before every Friday.
To ensure that all updates on the loose leafs in the Judge’s library are attended
to. Execute legal research as directed by the Judge. Comply with departmental
Policies and Prescripts and procedures or guidelines, including signing of
payroll
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms M Campbell Tel No: (012) 492 6799
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/222/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 33/45 : POOL JUDGE’S SECRETARIES REF NO: 2025/223/OCJ (X2 POSTS)
(12 Months non-renewable Contract)
Re-advertisement, candidates who previously apply are encouraged to re-
apply.
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07), plus 37% in lieu of benefits. The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric plus LLB degree; Valid driver’s license. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to pass a typing test Skills and Competencies:
Good written and oral communication skills. Computer literacy (Microsoft
office). Customer services skills. Interpersonal relations skills. Planning skills.
Organising and control. Able to work under pressure. Ability to multi-task.
Problem solving skills. Good interpersonal relations. Skills and competencies:
Proficiency in English, Proficiency in Microsoft Office Programs, Ability to
conduct research Problem solving, Planning and organizing, Ability to maintain
confidentiality, Good judgment and decision-making skills, Good interpersonal
relations with ability to take charge, effective communication (verbally and in
writing),Able to work under pressure, Ability to multitask, Telephone etiquette,
Professionalism, Ability to meet strict deadlines, Time management skills and
People skills. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : To ensure attendance and screening of all incoming and outgoing calls. To
ensure that appointments and meetings of the Judge are diarized. To ensure
that the judgments are typed and correspondences are filed accordingly in the
right sections. To ensure that signed Judgments and orders handed down in
court or virtually are sent to the typist and the library (Judgements only). To
ensure that all visitors are received, screened and their queries are attended
78 to. To ensure that all incoming and outgoing documents are recorded and
filed. To ensure that stationery for the Judge is ordered and collected. To ensure
that the court files are ready and Judge has all documents in the file on time as
per duty roster. To ensure that all files received from various section(s) are
verified by the Registrar of that section. To ensure that the register of reviews
is up to date and signed on receipt and return of reviews to the review Clerk.
To ensure that he register/template of the reserved judgment is updated and
notifying the Statistics officer as well as the office of the Judge President when
judgment has been handed down. To ensure that the transcribed judgments
39
from transcribers reach the Judge for approval and signature. To prepare court
rolls for Opposed Motion and Urgent Court and distribute to stakeholders. To
ensure that the Heads of Arguments from various stakeholders are received,
filed and verified. Informing parties involved via e-mail and/or telephonically of
time and date when reserved judgments will be handed down, further notifying
them on how the judgement will be handed down. To ensure that the bench
book of the Judge is prepared and files are in court before the court starts or
before Judge enters the court. To ensure that all stakeholders involved are
present in court before commencement of proceedings. To ensure that all
cases are called and recorded as per court roll. Calling the case number and
the parties’ names on record before Judge can allow parties to start with their
matters. To ensure that the correct Oath ID or declaration is administered in
court, when required. To ensure that the exhibits are handled, controlled and
noted professionally and captured accordingly. To ensure that the correct order
is endorsed on the electronic court file after it was granted by Judge in court.
To ensure that all the travel, accommodation arrangements are in order on
time, attend to sign the documents being signed prior approval. To ensure that
the Judge’s logbook is submitted on or before 5th of every month to the
Transport Officer. To ensure that the car is booked for either maintenance and
service, receive the preauthorization for the Judge’s vehicle. To remind the
Judge of the invoices so that the submission of the S&T claims can be
processed. To ensure the submission of Cell phone and 3G data claims for
process purposes. To ensure that court roll(s) is submitted to the Statistical
Officer on or before every Friday. To ensure that all updates on the loose leafs
in the Judge’s library are attended to. Execute legal research as directed by
the Judge. Comply with departmental Policies and Prescripts and procedures
or guidelines, including signing of payroll.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms R Bramdaw Tel No: (010) 494 8486
HR related enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/223/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals
POST 33/46 : REGISTRAR’S CLERK REF NO: 2025/239/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE Eastern Cape Division of The High Court: Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate. The following will be an added advantage: Experience in
general legal administration, one (1) year administration experience preferably
in a court environment, knowledge of the Rules of the High Court. Skills and
competencies: Excellent communication skills (written and verbal). Computer
literacy (MS Office). Good interpersonal and public relation skills. Ability to work
under pressure and solve problems, numerical skills, accuracy and attention to
detail, planning, organizing and skills and customer service skills orientated. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Rendering effective and efficient case flow management support service to the
Court. Issuing of court processes at General Office. Render case management
duties. Render counter service duties/functions. Prepare, analyse and submit
court statistics, Maintain and keep all registers for civil matters. Filling and
archiving of civil processes. Attending to case management and set down.
Assist in typing set down, court rolls and other court preparations. Act as liaison
between Judges and Legal Practitioners. Attend to correspondence and
enquiries from the public and stakeholders. Provide administrative support in
general as requested by the Chief Registrar, Court Manager and Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr M Mhlontlo Tel No: (047) 504 5500
HR Related Enquiries: Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/239/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals
TVET LEARNERSHIP PROGRAMME FOR 2025/2026 (18 MONTHS)
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
40
NOTE : The Office of the Chief Justice would like to invite qualifying TVET graduate to
apply to participate in a Work Integrated Learning programme (TVET
graduates) in the 2025/2026 financial year. Applicants must have obtained a
N6 certificate from a Public TVET college as their highest qualification at entry.
Applicants must be an unemployed graduate and never participated in an
internship programme previously, and must be a South African Citizen. Office
of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. Persons with Disabilities
are encouraged to participate.
OTHER POSTS
POST 33/47 : TVET LEARNERSHIP: PUBLIC MANAGEMENT/ADMINISTRATION REF
NO: 2025/224/OCJ (X2 POSTS)
Duration: 18 Months
STIPEND : R4 950 per month
CENTRE : Polokwane High Court
REQUIREMENTS : N6 Certificate in Public Management /Administration and Office Administration
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries/HR related enquiries: Mr Masemola Tel No: (015) 495 1758
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/224/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 33/48 : TVET LEARNERSHIP: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: 2025/225/OCJ
(X1 POST)
Duration: 18 Months
STIPEND : R4 950 per month
CENTRE : Thohoyandou High Court
REQUIREMENTS : N6 Certificate in Public Management /Administration and Office Administration
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries/HR related enquiries: Mr Masemola Tel No: (015) 495 1758
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/225/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 33/49 : TVET LEARNERSHIP: PUBLIC MANAGEMENT / ADMINISTRATION REF
NO: 2025/226/OCJ (X1 POST)
Duration: 18 Months
STIPEND : R4 950 per month
CENTRE : North West (Provincial Service Centre)
REQUIREMENTS : N6 in Public Management / Administration and Office Administration
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries/HR related enquiries: Mr Sebapatso Tel No: (018) 397 7114
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/226/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 33/50 : TVET LEARNERSHIP: PUBLIC MANAGEMENT / ADMINISTRATION REF
NO: 2025/227/OCJ (X1 POST)
Duration: 18 Months
STIPEND : R4 950 per month
CENTRE : Mmabatho High Court
REQUIREMENTS : N6 in Public Management / Administration and Office Administration.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries/HR related enquiries: Mr Sebapatso Tel No: (018) 397 7114
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/227/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 33/51 : TVET LEARNERSHIP: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
2025/228/OCJ (X1 POST)
Duration: 18 Months
STIPEND : R4 950 per month
CENTRE : Northern Cape (Provincial Service Centre)
REQUIREMENTS : N6 Certificate in Human Resource Management
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries/HR related enquiries: Ms Lynnzay Tel No: (053) 807 2733
41
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/228/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 33/52 : TVET LEARNERSHIP: PUBLIC MANAGEMENT / ADMINISTRATION REF
NO: 2025/229/OCJ (X1 POST)
Duration: 18 Months
STIPEND : R4 950 per month
CENTRE : Northern Cape (Kimberly High Court)
REQUIREMENTS : N6 in Public Management / Administration and Office Administration
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries/HR related enquiries: Ms Lynnzay Tel No: (053) 807 2733
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/229/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 33/53 : TVET LEARNERSHIP – HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
2025/230/OCJ (X1 POST)
Duration:18 Months
STIPEND : R4 950 per month
CENTRE : East London (Provincial Services Centre)
REQUIREMENTS : N6 Certificate in Human Resource Management
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries/HR related enquiries: Mr Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/230/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 33/54 : TVET LEARNERSHIP: PUBLIC MANAGEMENT / ADMINISTRATION REF
NO: 2025/231/OCJ (X1 POST)
Duration: 18 Months
STIPEND : R4 950 per month
CENTRE : East London (Provincial Services Centre)
REQUIREMENTS : N6 Certificate in Public Management / Administration and Office Administration
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries/HR related enquiries: Mr Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/231/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 33/55 : TVET LEARNERSHIP: PUBLIC MANAGEMENT / ADMINISTRATION REF
NO: 2025/232/OCJ (X1 POST)
Duration: 18 Months
STIPEND : R4 950 per month
CENTRE : Makhanda High Court, Makhanda
REQUIREMENTS : N6 in Public Management / Administration and Office Administration
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries/HR related enquiries: Mr Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/232/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 33/56 : TVET LEARNERSHIP: PUBLIC MANAGEMENT / ADMINISTRATION REF
NO: 2025/233/OCJ (X1 POST)
Duration: 18 Months
STIPEND : R4 950 per month
CENTRE : Umtata High Court, Umtata
REQUIREMENTS : N6 in Public Management / Administration and Office Administration
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries/HR related enquiries: Mr Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/233/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
42
POST 33/57 : TVET LEARNERSHIP: PUBLIC MANAGEMENT / ADMINISTRATION REF
NO: 2025/234/OCJ (X1 POST)
Duration: 18 Months
STIPEND : R4 950 per month
CENTRE : National Office
REQUIREMENTS : N6 Certificate in Public Management / Administration and Office Administration
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries/HR related enquiries: Mr Mbele Tel No: (010)493 2538
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/234/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals
POST 33/58 : TVET LEARNERSHIP – HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
2025/235/OCJ (X1 POST)
Duration:18 Months
STIPEND R4 950 per month
CENTRE : Gauteng Provincial Services Centre
REQUIREMENTS : N6 certificate in Human Resource Management
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/235/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 33/59 : TVET LEARNERSHIP – FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO:
2025/236/OCJ (X1 POST)
Duration:18 Months
STIPEND : R4 950 per month
CENTRE : Gauteng Provincial Services Centre
REQUIREMENTS : N6 certificate in Financial Management, / Accounting
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/236/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 33/60 : TVET LEARNERSHIP – PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REF NO: 2025/237/OCJ
(X1 POST)
Duration:18 Months
STIPEND : R4 950 per month
CENTRE : Durban High Court
REQUIREMENTS : N6 certificate in Human Resource Management
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms S Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 492 6206
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/237/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
43
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of
positions with a candidate whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in the department’s Employment Equity plan. Whites, Coloured,
Indians, youth and Persons with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be posted to: Human Resource Management, Department of
Traditional Affairs, Private Bag X22, Arcadia, 0083 or Hand deliver to: 509
Pretorius Street, Arcadia, 2nd Floor Pencardia 1 Building or email @
DTARecruit202510@cogta.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms L Motlhala
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
NOTE : The successful candidate’s appointment will be subject to a security clearance
process and the verification of educational qualification certificates.
Applications must quote the relevant reference number and must be completed
on the NEW Z83 form obtainable from any Public Service department and
signed when submitted. From 1 January 2021 should an application be
received using the incorrect application for employment (Z83), the application
will not be considered. Only shortlisted candidates will submit relevant
documents. Applicants should submit CV and Z83 only. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified copies a day before the interview date.
Persons with a disability are encouraged to apply. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and to provide proof of such evaluation only
when shortlisted. Incomplete applications or applications received after the
closing date will not be considered. It is important to note that it is the
applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments in
support of the application are submitted by the due date. Due to the large
number of responses anticipated, correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three months of the
closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill the advertised
position.
OTHER POST
POST 33/61 : MESSENGER/DRIVER REF NO: 2025/10 (X1 POST)
(12-Months contract)
Facilities Management
SALARY : R163 680 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of service benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 10 certificate or equivalent (NQF level 3). A valid driver’s license. Five
(5) years driving experience. Generic Competencies: Communication, ability to
read and write Good eyesight. Teamwork. Technical Competencies: Operation
of the equipment. Physical inspection of vehicle and interpret instructions for
proper use of all control for safe operation of vehicles. Interpret and follow
operating manuals, maintenance manuals and service charts.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Transportation of
work teams, documents, materials/equipment’s. Detect and repair minor
mechanical problems on the vehicle and take steps to have it repaired (check
level and condition of oil, fuel, tyres and water). Inspection of the
vehicles/equipment and report defects. Complete vehicle logbook, trip
authorisation for the vehicle.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Khalishwayo Tel No: (012) 334 5607
44
ANNEXURE I
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
NOTE : Other related documentation such as copies of qualifications, identity
document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany the application when
applying for a post as such documentation must only be produced by
shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA circular 19 of
2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or occupational
registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be completed as
these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or disclose all
required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No late
applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
pertaining to Senior Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical and competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained
from the National School of government is required prior to the appointment.
Candidates will be required to complete a financial disclosure form and
undergo security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must
provide a police clearance certificate from country of origin (only when
shortlisted). The Department of Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity
employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of
the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment
Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of the Department will be
taken into consideration. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within three (3) months of this
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful.
Faxed applications will not be considered. The department reserves the right
not to fill these positions. Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged
to apply and preference will be given to the EE Targets.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 33/62 : CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER: VAAL-ORANGE CATCHMENT
MANAGEMENT AGENCY REF NO: VOCMA 08
(Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied need to re-apply)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant B-Degree NQF level 7 (Accounting, Financial Management or other
relevant qualification). A post-graduate qualification and/or designation with
relevant professional bodies will be an added advantage. A minimum of 10
years’ experience in financial management of which 5 years must be at
middle/senior managerial level. Extensive knowledge of financial
management, PFMA and Generally Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP)
and some knowledge of local government sector, public service act and
regulations. Behavioural Competencies required: Strategic Capability and
Leadership Programme and Project Management. Attention to detail. Financial
Management. Change Management. Knowledge Management. Service
Delivery Innovation (SDI). Problem solving and Analysis. People Management
and Empowerment. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. Good
Communication. Accountability and Ethical Conduct.
DUTIES : Strategic oversight on financial management within CMA: Assume overall
responsibility for general financial and management accounting activities,
budget (preparation and compliance), revenue collection, supply chain
management and asset management functions, payroll, and banking, ensuring
compliance to relevant legislation, prescripts, policies and agreements.
Establish, implement and enhance accounting and internal control systems,
policies and procedures in compliance with GRAP, PFMA, Treasury
Regulations and other legislation. Develop and implement a cost management
45
strategy through effective accounting controls and financial management
techniques. Ensure compliance with policies and provide guidance, assess
risks and financial viability of existing & new Policies, Projects and all customer
agreements. Direct the financial strategy of the organisation to ensure
availability of adequate financial resources. Provide strategic financial advice
to executive management and the Board. Ensure timely and accurate financial
reporting to all internal and external governance structures. Set perimeters for
cash flow management and operations of the finance personnel. Ensure
financial data integrity in terms of timeliness, accuracy and reliability. Oversee
and provide assistance during the annual audit; respond to audit findings and
implement recommendations as required. Stay abreast of new trends in the
field of accounting, financial management, budgeting etc. Provide strategic
direction in the provision of other Corporate Support Services within the CMA:
Provide strategic direction in the implementation of HR policies, prescripts and
strategies. Ensure provision of IT services and that associated risks are
effectively mitigated. Ensure provision of office support services including
facilities management. Departmental/Staff Management: Establish appropriate
service and staffing levels; monitor and evaluate the efficiency and
effectiveness of service delivery methods and procedures and allocate
resources accordingly to meet departmental strategies priorities. Responsible
for the related sections of the APP, Shareholders Compact, and Annual Report.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Greve Tel No: (012) 336 5826
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : The Vaal-Orange Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water Resource
Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the National
Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy for South
Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and Sanitation.
Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms and
conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service Act,
though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 33/63 : BOARD SECRETARY: MZIMVUBU-TSITSIKAMMA CATCHMENT
MANAGEMENT AGENCY (MTCMA) REF NO: MTCMA 04
(Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied need not to re-
apply)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : East London
REQUIREMENTS : A BCom. Law / LLB or equivalent degree. Admitted attorney. Registration as
a Chartered Secretary with the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and
Administrators will be advantageous. A minimum of five (5) years Middle /
Senior Managerial experience. Experience as a Company Secretary.
Understanding of SA Law in general, administrative law, labour law, water law,
public entities, governance and ethics. Behavioural Competencies required:
Analytical, negotiation, liaison, consultation, advanced communication,
information monitoring, compliance and risk management, ethical, strategic
thinking, quality oriented, lateral thinking and attention to detail. May be
subjected to extended working hours.
DUTIES : Committee Work: Ensure submission of annual schedule of meetings for Board
and Committee meetings. Ensure convening of meetings, preparation of
agenda and taking minutes of Board and its Committees. Address
correspondence and communication relating to the Board. Ensure collation
and maintaining of information and documentation relating to Board and
Committee meetings. Ensure the secure recording and archiving of minutes of
meetings. Guide the writing of interim and annual reports for the Board. Ensure
that decisions taken by the Board are communicated to relevant stakeholders
to be implemented fully. Guidance and Advice: Advise and guide the Board by
promoting insight and clarity on its appointment, constitution, and the related
legal, ethical, good governance, accounting and financial implications of the
proposed/implemented policies and decisions. Assist the Chairperson and
Chief Executive, in matters relating to the DWS and the Board. Provide advice
with regard to the specific roles and responsibilities of the Board as a whole,
and those of the individual role- players: Chairperson, CEO, and Board
members. Provide advice with regard to the appointment and constitution of
the required sub-committees (e.g., audit, risk, or other), with regard to ensuring
corporate governance. Manage the risk by ensuring and monitoring
46
compliance of the implementation of policies and procedures relating to NWA,
PFMA and other related legislation and guidelines. Provide regulatory,
compliance and relevant advice to the Governing Board on usage of water
resources to relevant national, provincial and local government departments,
WUAs, farmers. Corporate Governance: Formulate and implement corporate
governance strategies for the organisation. Ensure the organisation remains
aware of any changing requirements in connection with corporate governance
and responds accordingly. Provide advice on corporate governance working
practices arising out of changes in legislation affecting the organisation.
Support the organisation with the research, development and implementation
of policies required for corporate governance. Liaison as necessary with
external organisations and staff at all levels on a wide variety of governance
related matters. Legal Support: Take overall responsibility of legal services in
the organisation. Deal with contractual and related matters. Provide internal
legal advisory services to the Board as and when required. Facilitate and
ensure compliance to relevant statutes. Provide continuous updates on
changes to legislation to the organisation and the Board. Set up systems that
ensure the Board complies with all applicable codes, as well as its legal and
statutory obligations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Conrad Greve Tel No: (012) 336 8402
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : The Mzimvubu-Tsitsikamma Catchment Management Agency (MTCMA) is a
Public Water Resource Management Agency, established in line with the
provisions of the National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and
National Water Policy for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department
of Water and Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar
employment terms and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms
of the Public Service Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service
Act.
OTHER POSTS
POST 33/64 : ENGINEER PRODUCTION GRADE A - C REF NO: 290925/01 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Head Office
CD: Engineering Services Dir: Civil Engineering
Sub-Dir: Bulk Pipe Systems
SALARY : R879 342 - R1 323 267 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package), (Offer
will be based on years of experience)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Civil Engineering Degree (B. Eng / BSc. Eng). Three (3) years post
qualification experience in Civil Engineering is required. Compulsory
registration with the Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a
Professional Engineer in the Civil Engineering discipline. The disclosure of a
valid and unexpired driver’s license. Competency and experience on the
implementation of civil engineering projects in the Water Sector and design of
hydraulic structures, pump stations, and pipelines. Competencies and
knowledge in Engineering design and analysis. Knowledge and understanding
of legal compliance with the Republic of South Africa’s legislation and
regulations. Understanding of computer aided engineering applications.
Knowledge and understanding of Construction Contracts regulated by the
CIDB. Project management. Strategic capabilities and leadership. Financial
management skills. Excellent communication skills (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Engineering design and analysis effectiveness. Perform, review and approve
bulk pipelines design components. Plan and manage engineering principles
and codes of good practice to candidate engineers. Manage resources and
inputs for the facilitation of resource utilization. Application of research and
development procedures. Continuous professional development to keep up
with new technology and procedures within Engineering, office administration
and budget planning. Draft tender documents in accordance with ECSA Stage
4. Administer construction contracts and conduct construction inspections in
accordance with ECSA Stage 5 scope of service.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MJ Mabela Tel No: (012) 336 6564 / Cell No: (066) 476 0440
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
47
POST 33/65 : CHIEF ARTISAN GRADE A (MAINTENANCE) REF NO: 290925/02
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R480 261 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Gariep Dam
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Ten (10) years post qualification experience
as an Artisan or Artisan Foreman. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s
license. Knowledge of technical analysis, computer-aided applications, legal
compliance, technical report writing and production process. Problem solving
and analytical decision making, teamwork and analytical skills. Creativity, self-
management, customer focus and responsiveness. Good communication skills
both (verbal and written). Computer literacy. Planning and organising skills.
Conflict management. Ability to work independently as well as in a team and
ability to work long hours and perform well under pressure. Knowledge of
Occupational Health and Safety Act, PMDS and PFMA. Drawing skills and
ability to read drawings. Candidates may be required to complete a practical
and theoretical test.
DUTIES : Manage technical services and support in conjunction with artisan and
workshop activities, Manage administrative and related functions. Provide
inputs into the budgeting process, compile and submit reports as required.
Manage artisan and related personnel and assets. Control and monitor
expenditure according to budget to ensure efficient cash flow management.
Management the development, motivation and utilisation of human resource
for the discipline to ensure competent knowledge base for the continued
success of technical services. Ensure adherence to safety standards,
requirements, and regulations. Compile and submit reports as required.
Human and Capital resource management. Continuous individual
development to keep up with new technologies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr LJ Mkafane Tel No: (051) 754 0001
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Candidates may be required to complete a practical and theoretical test.
POST 33/66 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK (PRODUCTION) REF NO: 290925/03
Branch: Infrastructure Management Southern Operations
Directorate: Operations Southern
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Worcester (Western Cape)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 certificate. Knowledge of PERSAL system, database and
spread sheet application. Knowledge of the Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, and other relevant HR prescripts will be an advantage. Good
communication skills (written and verbal). Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for rendering Human Resource
clerical services. Provide administrative support for recruitment and selection,
appointments, probation, and service terminations. Administer processes
related to conditions of service (leave, housing, medical aid, allowances, etc.).
Address enquiries and Human Resources registry services. Capture and
update transactions on the PERSAL system. Address HR administration
enquiries from internal and external stakeholders. Maintain and update
personnel filing systems (electronic and physical). Provide general
administrative support, including drafting routine correspondence, submissions
and reports. Ensure effective and efficient interpretation and implementation of
the departmental HRM Policies, system, regulation guidelines, resolution and
other prescribes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Moodley Tel No: (021) 941 6019
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from the Western Cape geographical
area.
48
POST 33/67 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK (PRODUCTION) REF NO: 290925/04
Branch: Infrastructure Management Southern Operations
Directorate: Operations Southern
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Gqeberha (Port Elizabeth)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 certificate. Knowledge of PERSAL system, database and
spread sheet application. Knowledge of the PSA, PSR and other relevant
Human Resources prescripts and legislation. Good communication skills
(written and verbal) ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for rending professional advice to
the line managers. Ensure effective and efficient interpretation and
implementation of the departmental HRM Policies, system, regulation
guidelines, resolution and other prescribes. Capturing transactions on
PERSAL. Recruitment and Selection. Organizational Development. Employee
Relations. Human Resource Development. Drafting of submissions. Handling
all Human Resource administration i.e. conditions of service, termination of
services and leave management. Provide HR Registry services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. CS Nzimande Tel No: (041) 508 9719
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from the Nelson Mandela Bay District.
POST 33/68 : FINANCE CLERK (PRODUCTION): MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF
NO: 290925/05
Branch: Infrastructure Management Southern Operations
Directorate: Operations Southern
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Gqeberha (Port Elizabeth)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/ Grade 12 certificate. Basic knowledge of financial functions, practices
as well as the ability to capture data, operate a computer and the use of excel.
Good communication skills. Accountability, integrity, honesty and ethical
conduct. Some experience in finance would be advantages.
DUTIES : Receive salary advices and distribute it to employees. Capturing
supplementary employee payments. Prepare payments to service providers
and maintain invoice register. Ensure that creditors are paid within 30 days.
Ensure financial procedures are observed in the section. Attend to vendor
enquiries. Scan paid invoices onto SAP. Order and distribute stationery. File all
face value documents systematically and complete. Attend to audit samples
and ensure compliance with policies and regulations. Assist with the
compilation of the budget for the sections and printing budget reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R De Lange Tel No: (041) 508 9730
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from the Nelson Mandela Bay District.
POST 33/69 : FINANCE CLERK (PRODUCTION): FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO:
290925/06
Branch: Infrastructure Management Southern Operations
Directorate: Operations Southern
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Gqeberha (Port Elizabeth)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/ Grade 12 certificate. Basic knowledge of financial functions, practices
as well as the ability to capture data, operate a computer and the use of excel.
Good communication skills. Accountability, integrity, honesty and ethical
conduct. Some experience in finance would be advantages.
DUTIES : Receive salary advices and distribute it to employees. Capturing
supplementary employee payments. Prepare payments to service providers
and maintain invoice register. Ensure that creditors are paid within 30 days.
Ensure financial procedures are observed in the section. Attend to vendor
enquiries. Scan paid invoices onto SAP. Order and distribute stationery. File all
face value documents systematically and complete. Attend to audit samples
and ensure compliance with policies and regulations. Assist with the
compilation of the budget for the sections and printing budget reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R De Lange Tel No: (041) 508 9730
49
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from the Nelson Mandela Bay District.
POST 33/70 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: (HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT) REF
NO: 290925/07
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Gariep Dam
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 certificate. A National Diploma in Human Resources
Management will serve as the added advantage. One (1) year experience in
Human Resource Management will serve as an added advantage. The
disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s licence will serve as an added
advantage. PERSAL introduction certificate will also add as an added
advantage. PERSAL Knowledge in PERSAL. Computer literacy in Ms
packages. Knowledge of HR prescripts governing the public service. Good
Interpersonal skills, customer care and communication skills. Ability to work
well in a team and under pressure. Willingness to travel outside working hours.
DUTIES : Render human resource administrative function. Administer recruitment and
selection, human resource Transactions, performance management and
development system, Information management (Establishment), IOD,
Incapacity Pension Administration, Typing and drafting of letters,
memorandum, and submissions. Rendering professional advice to line function
on the effective and efficient interpretation and implementation of the
departmental HRM policies and other related prescripts. Handling of all HRM
administration functions. Compile daily statistics and update databases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L.J Mkafane Tel No: (051) 754 0001
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 33/71 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK (PRODUCTION) REF NO: 290925/08
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pretoria (Central Operations)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 certificate. A National Diploma in Human Resources
Management will serve as the added advantage. PERSAL introduction
certificate will serve as an added advantage. Appropriate experience in Human
Resource Management and registry will serve as added advantage. The
disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license will serve as an added
advantage. Computer literacy (Microsoft packages). Knowledge of PERSAL
system, database and spreadsheet application. Good communication skills
both (verbal and written). Ability to work under pressure. Knowledge of human
resource prescripts policies and procedures. Team player. Willingness to travel.
Computer literacy (Microsoft packages).
DUTIES : Implement human resource administration practices, human resource
transaction: (leave management, and human resource records management).
Render professional advice to line function on the effective, efficient
interpretation and implementation of policies and other related prescripts.
Address human resource administration enquires. Compile daily statistics and
update database. Process transfers, movement, and relocation on PERSAL for
Central Operations. Provide human resource registry services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I Schwartz Tel No: (012) 741 7359
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
50
ANNEXURE J
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
APPLICATIONS : Applications For The Department Of Public Works And Infrastructure To Be
Submitted To: Head: Public Works and Infrastructure, P.O Box 7551,
Bloemfontein, 9300 or Applications that are hand delivered must be brought to
the Foyer of O.R Tambo House where they must be placed in the appropriately
marked box at: Security Ground Floor, O.R Tambo House, St. Andrews Street,
Bloemfontein e-mail to: e-recruitmentfsdpwi@fsworks.gov.za. No Applications
will be accepted by Staff in Offices in the Building.
CLOSING DATE : 03 October 2025
NOTE : Directions to applicants: Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed
Z83 application form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at http://www.info.gov.za. The Z83 should be completed in a manner
that allows the selection committee to assess the application based on the
information provided on the form. Applicants are not required to submit copies
of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit
the Z83 and detailed Curriculum Vitae. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates
for a post will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day
of the interview following communication. If the certified copies contradict the
details on the CV or Z83 form, the candidate will automatically be disqualified
and removed from the shortlist. Non-RSA citizens/permanent resident permit
holders must attach a copy of their permanent residence permits to their
applications. Should an applicant possess a foreign qualification, it must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). Failure to submit the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Applicants must indicate the reference
number of the vacancy in their applications. Should an applicant wish to apply
for more than one post, separate applications must be submitted i.e. all the
documentation must be submitted for each post applied for. Applications
received after the closing date and those that do not comply with these
instructions will not be considered. Candidates requiring additional information
regarding the advertised post should direct their enquiries to the relevant
person as indicated in the advertisement. Note: Short-listed candidates will on
the day of interview undergo a security assessment. Suitable candidates will
be subjected to personnel suitability checks as deemed appropriate and
inclusive inter alia of criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial/asset record checks, qualification/study verification and previous
employment verification. If you have not been contacted within 4 months of the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Faxed or late applications will NOT be accepted.
OTHER POSTS
POST 33/72 : PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER (CIVIL) GRADE A REF NO: PWI 25/30 (X1
POST)
OSD Project Management Unit
SALARY : R879 342 per annum, (OSD), (all-inclusive package). The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government contribution to the
Government’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund, and
a flexible portion which may be structured according to the member’s needs.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor of Science Degree in Civil Engineering or equivalent NQF Level 7
qualification. Compulsory registration with the Engineering Council of South
Africa (ECSA) as a Civil Engineer. Valid driver’s licence with exception of
persons with disabilities. Core And Process Competencies: Programme and
project management. Engineering design and analysis knowledge. Research
and development. Computer-aided engineering applications. Knowledge of
legal compliance. Technical report writing. Creating high performance culture.
Professional judgment. Networking. Decision making. Team leadership.
Analytical skills. Creativity. Self-management. Financial management.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication. Computer literacy.
Planning and organising. Conflict management. Problem solving and analysis.
People management.
51
DUTIES : Design new systems to solve practical engineering challenges and improve
efficiency and enhance safety. Plan, design, operate and maintain engineering
projects. Develop cost effective solutions according to standards. Evaluate
existing technical manuals, standard drawings and procedures to incorporate
new technology. Develop tender specifications. Ensure through evaluation that
planning and design by others is done according to sound engineering
principles and according to norms and standards and code of practice. Approve
engineering works according to prescribed norms and standards. Ensure
training and development of technicians, technologist and candidate engineers
to promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound engineering
principles and code of practice. Supervise the engineering work and
processes. Administer performance management and development. Manage
resources and budget planning. Prepare and consolidate inputs for the
facilitation of resource utilisation. Ensure adherence to regulations and
procedures for procurement and personnel administration. Monitor and control
expenditure and report on expenditure and service delivery. Continuous
professional development to keep up with new technologies and procedures.
Research/literature studies on engineering technology to improve expertise.
Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. A Mackay Tel No: (051) 492 3718
POST 33/73 : PROFESSIONAL ARCHITECT GRADE A REF NO: PWI 25/31 (X1 POST)
OSD Project Management Unit
SALARY : R772 572 per annum, (OSD), (all-inclusive package). The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government contribution to the
Government’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund, and
a flexible portion which may be structured according to the member’s needs.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate degree in Architecture or equivalent NQF Level 7 coupled with
registration at the SACAP as a Professional Architect. Valid driver’s license with
the exception of persons with disabilities. Core And Process Competencies:
Programme and project management. Architectural design and analysis
knowledge. Research and development. Computer-aided engineering
applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing. Creating
high performance culture. Networking. Professional judgment. Decision
making. Team leadership. Analytical skills. Creativity. Self-management.
Financial management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
Computer literacy. Planning and organising. Conflict management. Problem
solving and analysis. People management. Change management. Innovation.
DUTIES : Perform architectural activities on state-owned or leased buildings, structures
or facilities: Co-ordinate professional teams on all aspects regarding
architecture. Ensure adherence and compliance to legal, safety and health
requirements. Provide architectural advice and technical support in the
evaluation of solutions. Ensure the adoption of technical and quality strategies.
Develop architectural related policies, methods and practices. Provide solution
on non-compliance and failure of designs. Review plans, drawings,
specifications, and estimates accomplished by building designers and/or sub-
professional personnel. Ensure adherence to the requirements of professional
registration. Human capital development: Mentor and train candidate architects
and related technical and administrative personnel to promote skills/knowledge
transfer and adherence to sound architecture principles and code of practice.
Supervise architectural work and processes. Administer Performance
management and development. Office administration and budget planning:
Manage resources, prepare and consolidate inputs for the facilitation of
resource utilisation. Ensure adherence to regulations and procedures for
procurement SCM and human resource administration. Monitor and control
expenditure. Report on expenditure and service delivery. Research and
development: Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on architect to
improve expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on architectural-related
matters. Mentor candidates to register as fully fledged professional at the South
African Council of the Architecture Profession.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. A Mackay Tel No: (051) 492 3718
52
POST 33/74 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF NO: PWI
25/31
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of an appropriate NQF 7 preferably in the
Management Services or equivalent qualification. 3-4 years’ post qualification
experience in the field. Valid driver’s license with the exception of persons with
disabilities. Competencies: Knowledge of the Public Service Legal framework.
Knowledge of monitoring and evaluation management programmes.
Legislation and policies applicable to monitoring and evaluation in the Public
Service and Co-ordination, monitoring and evaluation mechanisms, systems
and processes are strong recommendations. Facilitation skills. Leadership
skills, Report writing skills. Analytical skills. Problem solving skills. Strategic
planning skills. Computer and presentation skills. Ability to work as part of a
multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : To participate in the development of the Department’s Monitoring and
Evaluation Policy and/or implementation Strategy. To participate in the
development of the Department’s Monitoring and Evaluation Reporting Format
in line with the Department’s Annual Performance Plan as well as the Annual
Report Framework of the Department. To ensure that the capacity of the
Department on matters related to monitoring and evaluation (of non-financial
performance) is improved continuously. To ensure that the capacity of the
Department on matters related to monitoring and evaluation (of non-financial
performance) is improved continuously. Provision of information sessions
and/or advice to manager and senior managers inclusive of
resource/verification documents as required by the Auditor-General. Conduct
verification of reported non-financial performance. Collect and retain portfolios
of evidence for the department’s quarterly and annual non-financial reports.
Collate inputs and compile the departmental quarterly performance reports. To
monitor and report on the performance of the Department. To represent the
Department in national and/or provincial meetings on matters related to
monitoring and evaluation. To manage resources to ensure that the objectives
of the component are achieved.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Motsie Tel No: (051) 492 3897
POST 33/75 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING REF NO: PWI 25/32
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office (Bloemfontein)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification or equivalent qualification. 3 – 4 years’
post qualification experience in the field. Valid driver’s license with the
exception of persons with disabilities. Competencies: Knowledge of the Public
Service Legal framework. Knowledge of National and Provincial Planning
Policies and Strategies. Planning frameworks and guidelines. Formats in line
with Treasury regulations. Participation, Strategy implementation and
Processes. Facilitation skills. Leadership skills. Report writing skills. Analytic
skills problem solving skills. Strategic planning skills. Computer and
presentation skills.
DUTIES : To develop, maintain and/or facilitate the successful implementation of the
Department’s strategic planning policy and/or implementation strategy (in line
with national and/or provincial frameworks). To facilitate strategic planning
workshops in the Department towards the development and/or review of the
Department’s 5-Years Strategic Planning, Annual Performance Plans and
Annual Operational Plans in line with the provisions of Treasury Regulations
and/or national and/or provincial formats. To improve the capacity of the
Department on matters related to strategic and operational planning. To
facilitate the implementation of the Departmental Strategic Plan and Annual
Performance Plan. To represent the Department in national and/or provincial
meetings on matters related to strategic- and operational planning. To manage
resources to ensure that the objectives of the component are achieved.
ENQUIRIES : Ms IG De Beer Tel No: (051) 492 3749
53
ANNEXURE K
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
OTHER POSTS
POST 33/76 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
REFS/023309
Directorate: Logistics
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Medical Supplies Depot
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of 3 years National Diploma/ Degree in Logistics/ Supply Chain
Management/Accounting /Finance/Public Administration recognised by SAQA.
A minimum of 5 years relevant experience in Supply Chain Management of
which 3 years must be at an Assistant Director level. Knowledge and
experience of operational procurement systems. Possession of a valid driver’s
license. Competency: Be able to demonstrate knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Practice Notes, Circulars and policy
frameworks, Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment Act 53 of 2003, the
Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act and other relevant public
sector procurement legislation; Knowledge and experience of contract
management, strategic sourcing, public sector supply chain models and
processes; Understanding of delegation of authority; advanced planning,
organizing, and problem solving skills; excellent communication (both verbal
and written) and interpersonal skills; report writing skills, people management
skills, computer literacy (Ms Word, PowerPoint, Excel, Internet and Outlook)
will be advantageous.
DUTIES : Manage and monitor compliance with relevant legislative frameworks and
procedures in terms of Procurement, Logistics and store services. Develop and
manage the demand, acquisition, asset management and disposal processes.
Give guidance and advice on procurement procedures, logistical processes
and disposal processes. Develop and implement SCM policies and procedure
manuals. Ensure proper sourcing in the entity. Formulate and monitor the
implementation of policies and procedures when procuring goods and
services. Manage the entity’s demand and procurement plan in line with the
allocated budget. Ensure that contract management is fully effective in the
entity in conjunction with other relevant stakeholders. Ensure that the entity
adheres to the requirements of PFMA, PPFA and relevant regulations, NT and
GPT Circulars and other approved departmental policies and procedures.
Conduct commodity analyses and check for alternatives in cases of strategic
purchases. Serve as an advisor to the entity’s management on matters
pertaining to the tendering/quotation process.
ENQUIRIES : Mr X Mahleza Tel No: (011) 628-9008
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted strictly online at the following E-Recruitment
portal: http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. No hand-delivered, faxed, or emailed
applications will be accepted. For assistance with online applications, please
email your query to healthjobqueries@gauteng.gov.za
NOTE : Applications should be accompanied by a fully completed and signed new Z83
form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The new Z83 form must be fully completed and
signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D
must be completed. Leave the following question blank if they are not in
possession of such: “If your profession or occupation requires official
registration, provide date and particulars of registration”. Applications without
proof of a new Z83 application form and a detailed CV will be disqualified.
Applicants must indicate the post reference number on their applications.
Shortlisted candidates will receive communication from the HR unit to submit
certified copies of educational qualifications and other relevant documents not
older than 6 months on or before the day of the interview. Personnel Suitability
Checks (criminal checks, citizenship checks, qualification verification,
company directorship, social media, financial record checks, reference checks)
must be conducted prior to appointment. Candidates in possession of a foreign
qualification must furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Applicants
54
with foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their
qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). The recommended candidate may be subjected to medical
surveillance as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act
5/1993. The Medical Supplies Depot reserves the right to utilize practical
exercises/tests for non-SMS positions during the recruitment process to
determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s). The Gauteng Department
of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. People with
disabilities, Coloured Males and Females, Indian Males and Females, White
Males and Females are encouraged to apply. Kindly note that no payment of
any kind is required when applying for posts advertised by the Gauteng
Department of Health. The Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised posts.
CLOSING DATE : 30 September 2025
POST 33/77 : PHARMACIST REF NO: REFS/023316
Directorate: Procurement
SALARY : R848 862 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Medical Supplies Depot
REQUIREMENTS : B. Pharm or equivalent qualification. Registration with the South African
Pharmacy Council (SAPC) as a pharmacist. A good understanding of the
relevant legislation, National Drug Policy, the Essential Drugs Programme,
Public Finance Management Act, and Good Pharmacy Practice relating to
pharmaceutical services. Good verbal and written communication and
presentation skills. Sound leadership, analytical and computer proficiency.
Proven problem-solving and monitoring, evaluation and risk evaluation skills. 1
year or more of experience in a pharmaceutical warehouse/bulk storage
environment and supply chain management knowledge will be an added
advantage. Must be achievement-driven and self-motivated. Must have a valid
Driver’s license. Extensive knowledge of Pharmaceutical Services’
approaches, policies and procedures. Understanding of the GWP, Medicines
and Related Substances Act, and Pharmacy Act. Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative prescripts governing the Public Service,
Pharmacy Practice and Control of Medicines. Computer literacy. Good team-
building and problem-solving skills. Sound knowledge and understanding of
the mandate of the Medical Supplies Depot.
DUTIES : The pharmacist is expected to coordinate and supervise the final processes in
the medicine procurement at the facility level. To ensure stock delivery follow-
up, tracing documentation for finalization of the processes to allow payment of
suppliers within an acceptable time frame. Assist with the identification of long
overdue orders and liaise with suppliers and demanders on completion of those
orders. Develop, implement and monitor adherence to the unit SOPs, and
ensure efficient resource management in the unit. Facilitate the development
and maintenance of internal control procedures to mitigate identified risks in
the unit. Represent pharmaceutical services at relevant meetings and serve on
various committees and participate in relevant forums in the depot. Coordinate
training programmes for the support personnel. Help develop protocols,
standard operating procedures and guidelines for efficient and cost-effective
pharmaceutical service. Supervise personnel in the unit; assign
responsibilities, maintain discipline and deal with grievances and Labour
Relations issues in terms of the laid down procedures and policies. Implement
the Performance Management and Development system in the unit. Compiling
reports for submission to MSD management as required and or on a monthly
and quarterly basis.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Hanise Tel No: (011) 628 9083
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted strictly online at the following E-Recruitment
portal: http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. No hand-delivered, faxed, or emailed
applications will be accepted. For assistance with online applications, please
email your query to healthjobqueries@gauteng.gov.za
NOTE : Applications should be accompanied by a fully completed and signed new Z83
form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The new Z83 form must be fully completed and
signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D
must be completed. Leave the following question blank if they are not in
possession of such: “If your profession or occupation requires official
55
registration, provide date and particulars of registration”. Applications without
proof of a new Z83 application form and a detailed CV will be disqualified.
Applicants must indicate the post reference number on their applications.
Shortlisted candidates will receive communication from the HR unit to submit
certified copies of educational qualifications and other relevant documents not
older than 6 months on or before the day of the interview. Personnel Suitability
Checks (criminal checks, citizenship checks, qualification verification,
company directorship, social media, financial record checks, reference checks)
must be conducted prior to appointment. Candidates in possession of a foreign
qualification must furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Applicants
with foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their
qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). The recommended candidate may be subjected to medical
surveillance as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act
5/1993. The Medical Supplies Depot reserves the right to utilize practical
exercises/tests for non-SMS positions during the recruitment process to
determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s). The Gauteng Department
of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. People with
disabilities, Coloured Males and Females, Indian Males and Females, White
Males and Females are encouraged to apply. Kindly note that no payment of
any kind is required when applying for posts advertised by the Gauteng
Department of Health. The Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised posts.
CLOSING DATE : 30 September 2025
POST 33/78 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RISK MANAGEMENT & INTERNAL CONTROL
REF NO: REFS/023320
Directorate: Risk Management & Internal Control
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), plus benefits
CENTRE : Medical Supplies Depot
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate, a recognised 3-year Degree or Diploma (NQF Level 6/7)
in Risk Management/Internal Auditing/ Accounting/Compliance Management.
3 years supervisory experience at level 7 or equivalent in Risk
Management/Internal Audit services/Accounting/Internal Control. Valid driver’s
license. Competency: Public Sector Risk Management framework. COSO
Framework. King report on Corporate Governance. Public Finance
Management Act. Treasury Regulation. Protected Disclosure Act. Anti-fraud
and corruption policies. Labour Relations, legislation, policies and procedures.
Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Public Service Act. Internal Audit
Standards and ISO 31000 Standards Skills: Analytical. Strategic Management.
Financial Management. Facilitation. Investigation. Interviewing. People
Management. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Time
Management. Communication. Interpersonal. Presentation. Planning and
organizing.
DUTIES : Monitor implementation of Risk management strategies/ policies and systems
for the entity. Promote risk awareness culture and conduct risk assessment
through communication and training programmes. Manage and maintain the
risk register. Implement an integrated risk management framework for all
aspects of risk across the entity. Manage fraud and corruption preliminary
investigations in the entity. Manage resources within the Risk Management
Unit. Conduct internal control assessments. Prepare reports for oversight
structures. Coordinate internal and external audits. Assist in reviewing financial
statements. Provide administrative support to the Strategic and Operational
Risk Management Committee (RMC).
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Doorasamy Tel No: (011) 628-9020
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted strictly online at the following E-Recruitment
portal: http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. No hand-delivered, faxed, or emailed
applications will be accepted. For assistance with online applications, please
email your query to healthjobqueries@gauteng.gov.za
NOTE : Applications should be accompanied by a fully completed and signed new Z83
form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The new Z83 form must be fully completed and
signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D
must be completed. Leave the following question blank if they are not in
56
possession of such: “If your profession or occupation requires official
registration, provide date and particulars of registration”. Applications without
proof of a new Z83 application form and a detailed CV will be disqualified.
Applicants must indicate the post reference number on their applications.
Shortlisted candidates will receive communication from the HR unit to submit
certified copies of educational qualifications and other relevant documents not
older than 6 months on or before the day of the interview. Personnel Suitability
Checks (criminal checks, citizenship checks, qualification verification,
company directorship, social media, financial record checks, reference checks)
must be conducted prior to appointment. Candidates in possession of a foreign
qualification must furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Applicants
with foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their
qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). The recommended candidate may be subjected to medical
surveillance as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act
5/1993. The Medical Supplies Depot reserves the right to utilize practical
exercises/tests for non-SMS positions during the recruitment process to
determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s). The Gauteng Department
of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. People with
disabilities, Coloured Males and Females, Indian Males and Females, White
Males and Females are encouraged to apply. Kindly note that no payment of
any kind is required when applying for posts advertised by the Gauteng
Department of Health. The Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised posts.
CLOSING DATE : 30 September 2025
POST 33/79 : INTERNAL CONTROL OFFICER REF NO: REFS/023321
Directorate: Internal Control and Risk Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), plus benefits
CENTRE : Medical Supplies Depot
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate, a recognised 3-year Degree or Diploma (NQF Level 6/7)
in Accounting/ Auditing/ Internal Audit, coupled with a minimum of two (2) years
proven experience in an Internal Control and Internal Auditing environment. A
valid driver’s license. Competencies: Advanced knowledge of a variety of
aspects such as: Public Sector; Internal Auditing; Internal Control Standards,
Ethics and Practices. Knowledge and understanding Regulatory Framework
for Public Services, e.g. PFMA, Public Services Regulations; National and
Provincial Treasury Regulations, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework
Act, Policies, Prescripts and Instructions, as well as Statutory Provisions.
Broad knowledge of the Public Service Systems; knowledge of PowerPoint,
Microsoft Excel and Microsoft Word. Administrative procedures and systems.
Skills: Good Interpersonal, Analytical and problem-solving skills; Planning and
Organising skills; Good Communication skills (written and verbal); Time
Management; Report Writing; Interviewing; Presentation skills; Computer
literate; Ability to work independently and as a team member; Ability to work
under pressure and ability to meet tight deadlines.
DUTIES : Ensure adherence to relevant legislation, policies, and procedures. Document
audit work and report on findings, weaknesses, and shortcomings to
management. Identify and resolve audit-related queries and problems in a
timely manner. Provide input on internal control systems and practices.
coordinate compliance monitoring in relation to policies, processes, and
procedures. Develop, monitor and review the entity’s internal policies,
procedures and processes. Assist in reviewing and monitoring the internal
controls process and procedures. Facilitate the process of identification and
addressing unauthorised, irregular and fruitless and wasteful expenditure.
Assist in facilitating the process of internal and external auditing. Conduct
internal control compliance assessments.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L. Doorasamy Tel No: (011) 628-9020
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted strictly online at the following E-Recruitment
portal: http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. No hand-delivered, faxed, or emailed
applications will be accepted. For assistance with online applications, please
email your query to healthjobqueries@gauteng.gov.za
NOTE : Applications should be accompanied by a fully completed and signed new Z83
form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The new Z83 form must be fully completed and
57
signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D
must be completed. Leave the following question blank if they are not in
possession of such: “If your profession or occupation requires official
registration, provide date and particulars of registration”. Applications without
proof of a new Z83 application form and a detailed CV will be disqualified.
Applicants must indicate the post reference number on their applications.
Shortlisted candidates will receive communication from the HR unit to submit
certified copies of educational qualifications and other relevant documents not
older than 6 months on or before the day of the interview. Personnel Suitability
Checks (criminal checks, citizenship checks, qualification verification,
company directorship, social media, financial record checks, reference checks)
must be conducted prior to appointment. Candidates in possession of a foreign
qualification must furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Applicants
with foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their
qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). The recommended candidate may be subjected to medical
surveillance as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act
5/1993. The Medical Supplies Depot reserves the right to utilize practical
exercises/tests for non-SMS positions during the recruitment process to
determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s). The Gauteng Department
of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. People with
disabilities, Coloured Males and Females, Indian Males and Females, White
Males and Females are encouraged to apply. Kindly note that no payment of
any kind is required when applying for posts advertised by the Gauteng
Department of Health. The Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised posts.
CLOSING DATE : 30 September 2025
POST 33/80 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: REFS/023305
Directorate: Internal Control and Risk Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), plus benefits
CENTRE : Medical Supplies Depot
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate, a recognised 3-year Degree or Diploma (NQF Level 6/7)
in Risk Management / Internal Auditing or accounting and 2 years’ functional
experience in risk management and / internal auditing environment.
Knowledge: Risk management processes, strategies and techniques. PFMA,
Treasury Regulations and other public service Acts. Public Sector Risk
Management Framework. ISO 31000 Standards and COSO II Framework.
King III Report on Corporate Governance. Skills: Project management skills.
Communication (written, verbal and presentation) and liaison skills. Planning
and organising skills. Analytical skills. Presentation and facilitation skills.
Attention to detail. Good interpersonal skills - ability to work with all levels of
Management across Business Units. Good judgment and decision-making
skills. Integrity, ethical behaviour, honesty, transparency and trustworthiness.
The ability to work independently and as part of a team. The ability to work
under pressure and meet tight deadlines. The ability to multitask. Computer
literacy in MS Office, with experience in word processing, Outlook, PowerPoint
and Excel.
DUTIES : Monitor the implementation of the risk action plan progress. Identify and assess
risks in the entity. Assist in providing recommendations for the risk
management action plan. Assist in reviewing risk strategies to be in line with
the entity's objectives. Maintain and compile risk registers. Conduct risk
awareness campaigns. Verify management action plans and make follow-ups
on the outstanding management action plans. Update risk registers and submit
monthly and quarterly reports to the Assistant Director. Implementation of risk
compliance. Update the operational risk control matrix on a quarterly basis.
Compile risk compliance reports on a quarterly basis. Educate and train risk
champions/coordinators and units on risk management principles and
processes. Provide administrative support to the Strategic and Operational
Risk Management Committee.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L. Doorasamy Tel No: (011) 628-9020
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted strictly online at the following E-Recruitment
portal: http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. No hand-delivered, faxed, or emailed
58
applications will be accepted. For assistance with online applications, please
email your query to healthjobqueries@gauteng.gov.za
NOTE : Applications should be accompanied by a fully completed and signed new Z83
form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The new Z83 form must be fully completed and
signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D
must be completed. Leave the following question blank if they are not in
possession of such: “If your profession or occupation requires official
registration, provide date and particulars of registration”. Applications without
proof of a new Z83 application form and a detailed CV will be disqualified.
Applicants must indicate the post reference number on their applications.
Shortlisted candidates will receive communication from the HR unit to submit
certified copies of educational qualifications and other relevant documents not
older than 6 months on or before the day of the interview. Personnel Suitability
Checks (criminal checks, citizenship checks, qualification verification,
company directorship, social media, financial record checks, reference checks)
must be conducted prior to appointment. Candidates in possession of a foreign
qualification must furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Applicants
with foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their
qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). The recommended candidate may be subjected to medical
surveillance as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act
5/1993. The Medical Supplies Depot reserves the right to utilize practical
exercises/tests for non-SMS positions during the recruitment process to
determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s). The Gauteng Department
of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. People with
disabilities, Coloured Males and Females, Indian Males and Females, White
Males and Females are encouraged to apply. Kindly note that no payment of
any kind is required when applying for posts advertised by the Gauteng
Department of Health. The Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised posts.
CLOSING DATE : 30 September 2025
POST 33/81 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: REFS/023308
Directorate: Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Medical Supplies Depot
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate and a Degree/National Diploma/NQF level 6/7
Commerce/Secretarial or Office Management and Technology with two years’
experience rendering secretariat services. Basic knowledge of financial
administration. Good verbal and written communication skills and the ability to
communicate well with people at different levels. Good telephone etiquette.
Computer literacy in MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint. Sound organizational
skills. Good people skills. High level of reliability. Ability to act with sensitivity
and discretion. Ability to do research and analyze documents and situations.
DUTIES : Provides a secretarial/ receptionist support service to the senior manager.
Manage telephone calls in the office of the senior manager and ability to
exercise discretion. Perform advanced typing work. Operates and ensures that
office equipment, e.g. fax machines and photocopiers, is in good working order.
Records the engagements of the senior manager. Utilize discretion to decide
whether to accept/decline or refer to other employee’s requests for meetings,
based on the assessed importance and urgency of the matter. Coordinates
with and sensitizes/ advises the senior manager regarding engagements.
Compiles realistic schedules of appointments for the senior manager. Renders
administrative support services. Ensures the effective flow of information and
documents to and from the office of the senior manager. Scrutinizes routine
submissions/ reports and makes a note and/ or recommendations for the senior
manager. Responds to enquiries received from internal and external
stakeholders. Draft documents as required. Collects, analyzes and collates
information requested by the senior manager. Clarifies instructions and notes
on behalf of the senior manager. Ensures that travel arrangements are well
coordinated. Prioritize issues in the office of the senior manager. Handles the
procurement of standard items like stationery, refreshments, etc. for the
activities of the senior manager. Provides support to the senior manager
59
regarding meetings: Scrutinizes documents to determine actions/ information/
other documents required for meetings. Collects and compiles all necessary
documents for the senior manager to inform him/ her of the contents. Records
minutes/ decisions of the meeting of the senior management and
communicates to relevant role players, and follows up on progress made.
Prepares briefing notes for the senior manager as required. Coordinates
logistical arrangements for meetings when required. Remains up to date with
regard to the prescripts/policies and procedures applicable to his/ her work
terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the senior manager. Remains
abreast with the procedures and processes that apply in the office of the
manager.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Chiwakata Tel No: (011) 628-9131
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted strictly online at the following E-Recruitment
portal: http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. No hand-delivered, faxed, or emailed
applications will be accepted. For assistance with online applications, please
email your query to healthjobqueries@gauteng.gov.za
NOTE : Applications should be accompanied by a fully completed and signed new Z83
form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The new Z83 form must be fully completed and
signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D
must be completed. Leave the following question blank if they are not in
possession of such: “If your profession or occupation requires official
registration, provide date and particulars of registration”. Applications without
proof of a new Z83 application form and a detailed CV will be disqualified.
Applicants must indicate the post reference number on their applications.
Shortlisted candidates will receive communication from the HR unit to submit
certified copies of educational qualifications and other relevant documents not
older than 6 months on or before the day of the interview. Personnel Suitability
Checks (criminal checks, citizenship checks, qualification verification,
company directorship, social media, financial record checks, reference checks)
must be conducted prior to appointment. Candidates in possession of a foreign
qualification must furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Applicants
with foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their
qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). The recommended candidate may be subjected to medical
surveillance as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act
5/1993. The Medical Supplies Depot reserves the right to utilize practical
exercises/tests for non-SMS positions during the recruitment process to
determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s). The Gauteng Department
of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. People with
disabilities, Coloured Males and Females, Indian Males and Females, White
Males and Females are encouraged to apply. Kindly note that no payment of
any kind is required when applying for posts advertised by the Gauteng
Department of Health. The Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised posts.
CLOSING DATE : 30 September 2025
POST 33/82 : MATERIAL RECORDING CLERK REF NO: REFS 023317
Directorate: Data
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), plus benefits
CENTRE : Medical Supplies Depot
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate, a recognised 3-year Degree or Diploma (NQF Level 6/7)
in Supply Chain Management / Commerce / Science or Public Management
and 2 or more years of experience in Supply Chain Management and Drug
Supply Management. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative
framework governing the public service, e.g. Batho Pele, PFMA, Treasury
Regulations, Financial Policies and Procedures. Good verbal and written
communication skills, including intra- and interpersonal skills, typing, planning
and organizing, problem-solving, time management, and ability to interpret
directives. Service Delivery Innovation and Good Customer Relations. Ability
to work under pressure and meet deadlines. The following will be added
advantages: Experience in a Pharmaceutical environment and understanding
of Drug Supply Management, warehousing and/or distribution. Understanding
of MEDSAS and RDM computer systems.
60
DUTIES : Supervision of all DATA functions. Effective running of the department in line
with SOP’s, Policies and Legislation. Facilitate timeous Collection of all DATA
reports. Follow up on all overdue issues, reversals and cancellations of issues.
Timeous processing and management of internal orders. Ensure
implementation and compliance with Gauteng Medical Supplies Depot Policies
and Standard Operating Procedures. Receiving Green Cards from Facilities
(hospitals, clinics, Emergency Medical Services (EMS) and Regional
Pharmacies). Loading Green cards into MEDSAS and transferring RDM
orders. Optimal utilization of official working hours. Train, Evaluate and Support
Staff. Cost Centre Budget Management. Ensuring Compliance with Delivery
Schedule by timeous Printing, sorting and distribution of Invoices (IV’s) for
Warehouse Picking and Dispatch of Pharmaceutical Stock. Answer all
demanders' enquiries, process demanders' orders, and provide reports to
demanders on request. Returning of Post to Hospitals. Filing of Finalized Iv’s
and Financial reports. Accurate compilation of Statistics and Reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Sibande Tel No: (011) 628-9213
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted strictly online at the following E-Recruitment
portal: http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. No hand-delivered, faxed, or emailed
applications will be accepted. For assistance with online applications, please
email your query to healthjobqueries@gauteng.gov.za
NOTE : Applications should be accompanied by a fully completed and signed new Z83
form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The new Z83 form must be fully completed and
signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D
must be completed. Leave the following question blank if they are not in
possession of such: “If your profession or occupation requires official
registration, provide date and particulars of registration”. Applications without
proof of a new Z83 application form and a detailed CV will be disqualified.
Applicants must indicate the post reference number on their applications.
Shortlisted candidates will receive communication from the HR unit to submit
certified copies of educational qualifications and other relevant documents not
older than 6 months on or before the day of the interview. Personnel Suitability
Checks (criminal checks, citizenship checks, qualification verification,
company directorship, social media, financial record checks, reference checks)
must be conducted prior to appointment. Candidates in possession of a foreign
qualification must furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Applicants
with foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their
qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). The recommended candidate may be subjected to medical
surveillance as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act
5/1993. The Medical Supplies Depot reserves the right to utilize practical
exercises/tests for non-SMS positions during the recruitment process to
determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s). The Gauteng Department
of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. People with
disabilities, Coloured Males and Females, Indian Males and Females, White
Males and Females are encouraged to apply. Kindly note that no payment of
any kind is required when applying for posts advertised by the Gauteng
Department of Health. The Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised posts.
CLOSING DATE : 30 September 2025
POST 33/83 : AUXILIARY WORKER REF NO: REFS/023319 (X3 POSTS)
Directorate: Warehouse
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), plus benefits
CENTRE : Medical Supplies Depot
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 National Certificate, a qualification as a qualified Post-Basic
pharmacist assistant and actively registered with the South African Pharmacy
Council. Good leadership and proactive skills are required. A minimum of two
years of experience in staff supervision is essential. Both written and verbal
communication skills are necessary. Must have a minimum of five 2 or more
years of experience in Pharmaceutical warehousing, stock management,
stock-take, distribution and management. A qualification in supply chain
management and an understanding of public health policies and prescripts will
be an added advantage.
61
DUTIES : Management of store functions and staff supervision. Oversee and coordinate
daily receiving, storage, issuing and distribution of pharmaceuticals within your
designated store. Practice inventory management according to the FIFO/FEFO
principles. Supervision, training and disciplining of staff within the respective
area of responsibility. Preparation of the store for the annual and bi-annual
stock-take. Assume responsibility for resolving complaints from health facilities.
Maintain accurate documentation (batch records, delivery notes, temperature
logs). Conduct cyclic stock counts and perform thorough investigations for
inventory discrepancies. Monitor expiry dates, stock rotation (FEFO), and cold
chain integrity, manage staff leave and conduct performance management
development system processes for the respective area. Ensure that all rules,
regulations, instructions, procedures and policies are adhered to (GPP, GDP
and Good warehousing practice and SOP’s). Ensure that all SOP’S in the
Warehouse are adhered to at all times. Ensure that the performance of staff
members is managed and submitted according to the schedule. Manage the
time and attendance of staff members in the stores. Assist with ensuring that
the pharmacy store complies with OHS regulations at all times, including
wearing protective clothing. Involvement in the development/training of staff
members in the pharmacy store is essential. Do daily planning for the
pharmacy store. Participate in internal audits and assist with CAPA
implementation, operate and maintain warehouse equipment, and ensure the
cleanliness and organization of the warehouse. Be willing to rotate within
different sections of the Warehouse when operationally required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. C Ramaphakela Tel No: (011) 628-9046 / Ms N Nama Tel No: (011) 628
9183
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted strictly online at the following E-Recruitment
portal: http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. No hand-delivered, faxed, or emailed
applications will be accepted. For assistance with online applications, please
email your query to healthjobqueries@gauteng.gov.za
NOTE : Applications should be accompanied by a fully completed and signed new Z83
form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The new Z83 form must be fully completed and
signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D
must be completed. Leave the following question blank if they are not in
possession of such: “If your profession or occupation requires official
registration, provide date and particulars of registration”. Applications without
proof of a new Z83 application form and a detailed CV will be disqualified.
Applicants must indicate the post reference number on their applications.
Shortlisted candidates will receive communication from the HR unit to submit
certified copies of educational qualifications and other relevant documents not
older than 6 months on or before the day of the interview. Personnel Suitability
Checks (criminal checks, citizenship checks, qualification verification,
company directorship, social media, financial record checks, reference checks)
must be conducted prior to appointment. Candidates in possession of a foreign
qualification must furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Applicants
with foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their
qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). The recommended candidate may be subjected to medical
surveillance as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act
5/1993. The Medical Supplies Depot reserves the right to utilize practical
exercises/tests for non-SMS positions during the recruitment process to
determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s). The Gauteng Department
of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. People with
disabilities, Coloured Males and Females, Indian Males and Females, White
Males and Females are encouraged to apply. Kindly note that no payment of
any kind is required when applying for posts advertised by the Gauteng
Department of Health. The Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised posts.
CLOSING DATE : 30 September 2025
POST 33/84 : MATERIAL RECORDING CLERK REF NO: REFS/023322
Directorate: Warehouse
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), plus benefits
CENTRE : Medical Supplies Depot
62
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 National Certificate, must have a minimum of 2 or more years of
experience in Pharmaceutical warehousing. A degree/ National diploma (NQF
level 6/7 in Supply Chain Management /Commerce /Science /Logistics or
Transport Management. A minimum of 1 year experience in staff supervision is
essential. Good leadership and proactive skills are required. Proficiency in
Microsoft Office (Word, Excel). Must have a good understanding of stock
management, PFMA and public health policies. Computer literacy, planning,
problem solving, good leadership, and proactive decision-making skills, paying
attention to details, time management, strong written and verbal
communication and interactive skills are essential. A qualification as a Basic or
Post Basic Pharmacist Assistant will be an added advantage Skills: Computer
literacy, planning, problem-solving, decision-making, paying attention to
details, time management, good communication and interactive skills are
essential.
DUTIES : To perform administrative and supervisory functions. Plan and allocate daily
tasks to the material recording clerk, manage staff leave and monitor
attendance times of staff in the store. Conduct staff performance review and
implement performance management development system processes as
required. Supervise, train, mentor and, where necessary, discipline staff to
maintain code of conduct within the respective area of responsibility. Oversee
and ensure accurate and timeous capturing and finalization of received
invoices according to SOP. Monitor appropriate management of all processes,
including proper record keeping and filing, timeous collection of purchase order
documents and submission of invoices for payments and penalties. Ensure
effective communication between different stakeholders in facilitating the
management of expired stock, stock return documents and receipt vouchers.
Manage and facilitate requisition and utilization of consumables in the
designated area. Assist the receiving Pharmacist and Supervisors in resolving
receiving-related queries for effective receiving processes. Ensure continuous
compliance with SOPs, policies and Pharmacy-related legislation. Participate
in warehouse meetings and attend training programmes as required. Be willing
to rotate within different sections of the Warehouse when operationally
required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. C Ramaphakela Tel No: (011) 628-9046 / Ms N Nama Tel No: (011) 628
9183
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted strictly online at the following E-Recruitment
portal: http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. No hand-delivered, faxed, or emailed
applications will be accepted. For assistance with online applications, please
email your query to healthjobqueries@gauteng.gov.za
NOTE : Applications should be accompanied by a fully completed and signed new Z83
form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The new Z83 form must be fully completed and
signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D
must be completed. Leave the following question blank if they are not in
possession of such: “If your profession or occupation requires official
registration, provide date and particulars of registration”. Applications without
proof of a new Z83 application form and a detailed CV will be disqualified.
Applicants must indicate the post reference number on their applications.
Shortlisted candidates will receive communication from the HR unit to submit
certified copies of educational qualifications and other relevant documents not
older than 6 months on or before the day of the interview. Personnel Suitability
Checks (criminal checks, citizenship checks, qualification verification,
company directorship, social media, financial record checks, reference checks)
must be conducted prior to appointment. Candidates in possession of a foreign
qualification must furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Applicants
with foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their
qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). The recommended candidate may be subjected to medical
surveillance as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act
5/1993. The Medical Supplies Depot reserves the right to utilize practical
exercises/tests for non-SMS positions during the recruitment process to
determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s). The Gauteng Department
of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. People with
disabilities, Coloured Males and Females, Indian Males and Females, White
Males and Females are encouraged to apply. Kindly note that no payment of
63
any kind is required when applying for posts advertised by the Gauteng
Department of Health. The Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised posts.
CLOSING DATE : 30 September 2025
POST 33/85 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT REF NO: REFS/023311
Directorate: Finance
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), plus benefits
CENTRE : Medical Supplies Depot
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate and a recognised 3-year Degree or Diploma (NQF Level
6/7) in Financial Management. 2 years of experience in finance in the public
health environment. Skills And Competencies: Public Service Act. Treasury
Regulation. PFMA. MEDSAS, BAS. Government Accounting Standards
(GRAP); Economic Reporting Framework, including Standard Charts of
Accounts. Communication (written and verbal). Computer Literacy (MS Word,
Excel, etc.). Analytical and mathematical skills. Conflict resolution. Ability to
work under pressure. Self-motivated. Reliable. Integrity and honesty.
DUTIES : Assist in the preparation of various budgets. Assist budget managers in
compiling their budget inputs and expenditure reporting, manage the
department’s budget and notify budget managers on possible
over/underspending and recommend solutions. Prepare and provide budget
managers with management reports (cashflow statements) on a monthly basis,
assist in the compilation of expenditure reports to various stakeholders,
Accounts Payable and Receivable. Reconciliations and journals. Ensure
application of prescribed financial procedures and policies, including PFMA
and Treasury Regulations. Perform other duties as directed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Ngomane Tel No: (011) 628-9019
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted strictly online at the following E-Recruitment
portal: http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. No hand-delivered, faxed, or emailed
applications will be accepted. For assistance with online applications, please
email your query to healthjobqueries@gauteng.gov.za
NOTE : Applications should be accompanied by a fully completed and signed new Z83
form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The new Z83 form must be fully completed and
signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D
must be completed. Leave the following question blank if they are not in
possession of such: “If your profession or occupation requires official
registration, provide date and particulars of registration”. Applications without
proof of a new Z83 application form and a detailed CV will be disqualified.
Applicants must indicate the post reference number on their applications.
Shortlisted candidates will receive communication from the HR unit to submit
certified copies of educational qualifications and other relevant documents not
older than 6 months on or before the day of the interview. Personnel Suitability
Checks (criminal checks, citizenship checks, qualification verification,
company directorship, social media, financial record checks, reference checks)
must be conducted prior to appointment. Candidates in possession of a foreign
qualification must furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Applicants
with foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their
qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). The recommended candidate may be subjected to medical
surveillance as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act
5/1993. The Medical Supplies Depot reserves the right to utilize practical
exercises/tests for non-SMS positions during the recruitment process to
determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s). The Gauteng Department
of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. People with
disabilities, Coloured Males and Females, Indian Males and Females, White
Males and Females are encouraged to apply. Kindly note that no payment of
any kind is required when applying for posts advertised by the Gauteng
Department of Health. The Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised posts.
CLOSING DATE : 30 September 2025
64
POST 33/86 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT REF NO: REFS/023318 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Financial Reporting
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), plus benefits
CENTRE : Medical Supplies Depot
REQUIREMENTS : The applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate and a
recognised 3-year Degree or Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) in Financial Accounting
or a related field in accounting or auditing with a minimum of 2 years of proven
experience in financial reporting and financial management. Knowledge:
Computer literacy and in particular – MS Office, Excel Data Analytics, BAS and
PERSAL. Skills: Accounting and financial management and project
management skills, High numerical skills; Communication: Good verbal and
written communication skills; Creativity: Proactive, innovative thinker and must
be able to work under pressure.
DUTIES : The successful candidate, reporting to the Assistant Director: Financial
Reporting, will be responsible for, among other things, timeously collating all
the entity’s financial information for reporting purposes. The compilation and
preparation of GRAP-compliant monthly, interim, and annual financial
statements, as well as monthly management accounts. Maintain properly
reconciled accounts up-to-the general ledger in the entity’s books and assist
with the provision of relevant information to several applicable internal and
external stakeholders. Must apply sound knowledge of generally recognised
Accounting Practice (GRAP) standards, Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Treasury Regulations and Supply Chain Management (SCM) policies
such as the PPPFA, among other things. Make effective use of MS Excel in the
generation of numerous financial reports of the entity in a manner that is
efficient for financial reporting. Use your acquired knowledge and experience
in inventory management to add value to the entity’s core business function.
Ability to supervise staff and manage risks.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S.R Ntimane Tel No: (011) 628-9127
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted strictly online at the following E-Recruitment
portal: http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. No hand-delivered, faxed, or emailed
applications will be accepted. For assistance with online applications, please
email your query to healthjobqueries@gauteng.gov.za
NOTE : Applications should be accompanied by a fully completed and signed new Z83
form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The new Z83 form must be fully completed and
signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D
must be completed. Leave the following question blank if they are not in
possession of such: “If your profession or occupation requires official
registration, provide date and particulars of registration”. Applications without
proof of a new Z83 application form and a detailed CV will be disqualified.
Applicants must indicate the post reference number on their applications.
Shortlisted candidates will receive communication from the HR unit to submit
certified copies of educational qualifications and other relevant documents not
older than 6 months on or before the day of the interview. Personnel Suitability
Checks (criminal checks, citizenship checks, qualification verification,
company directorship, social media, financial record checks, reference checks)
must be conducted prior to appointment. Candidates in possession of a foreign
qualification must furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Applicants
with foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their
qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). The recommended candidate may be subjected to medical
surveillance as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act
5/1993. The Medical Supplies Depot reserves the right to utilize practical
exercises/tests for non-SMS positions during the recruitment process to
determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s). The Gauteng Department
of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. People with
disabilities, Coloured Males and Females, Indian Males and Females, White
Males and Females are encouraged to apply. Kindly note that no payment of
any kind is required when applying for posts advertised by the Gauteng
Department of Health. The Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised posts.
CLOSING DATE : 30 September 2025
65
POST 33/87 : MATERIAL RECORDING CLERK REF NO: REFS/023310
Directorate: Procurement
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), plus benefits
CENTRE : Medical Supplies Depot
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate, a recognised 3-year Degree or Diploma (NQF Level 6/7)
in Supply Chain Management / Commerce / science or Public Management. 3
– 5 years of experience in Supply Chain Management in a public health
environment. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing public service e.g. Batho Pele, PFMA, Treasury Regulations, etc.
Good verbal and written communication skills, planning and organizing,
problem-solving, time management, and ability to interpret directives. Service
delivery innovation and good customer relations. Ability to work under pressure
and meet deadlines. Added advantages will be: Experience in staff supervision,
Proficiency in Microsoft Office (Word, Excel). Experience in a Pharmaceutical
environment and understanding of Drug Supply Management. Understanding
of MEDSAS and RDM computer systems.
DUTIES : Assist the procurement unit and Medical Supplies Depot management in
ensuring that the organization delivers on its core mandate of maintaining
medicine availability at acceptable levels to all Gauteng facilities. Ensure the
ordering process is initiated on time for the depot held stock, i.e. printing of
provisioning advice, creation of orders and ensuring these orders are sent to
suppliers on time. Ensure timeous retrieval of orders from RDM, printing and
authorization of orders, both manual and electronic versions. Deal with queries
from internal and external stakeholders efficiently. Ensure follow-up with
suppliers is done and feedback given to demanders. Ensure submission of
reports and that the unit’s risk register is maintained and updated monthly.
Supervision of staff and maintaining discipline in the unit, and ensuring that all
Acts, rules and regulations, instructions, procedures and policies are adhered
to. Ensure that contracting and performance assessment of staff members is
managed and done according to schedule. Manage the time and attendance
of staff members and ensure effective leave planning for the unit team.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. K Hanise Tel No: (011) 628-9083
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted strictly online at the following E-Recruitment
portal: http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. No hand-delivered, faxed, or emailed
applications will be accepted. For assistance with online applications, please
email your query to healthjobqueries@gauteng.gov.za
NOTE : Applications should be accompanied by a fully completed and signed new Z83
form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The new Z83 form must be fully completed and
signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D
must be completed. Leave the following question blank if they are not in
possession of such: “If your profession or occupation requires official
registration, provide date and particulars of registration”. Applications without
proof of a new Z83 application form and a detailed CV will be disqualified.
Applicants must indicate the post reference number on their applications.
Shortlisted candidates will receive communication from the HR unit to submit
certified copies of educational qualifications and other relevant documents not
older than 6 months on or before the day of the interview. Personnel Suitability
Checks (criminal checks, citizenship checks, qualification verification,
company directorship, social media, financial record checks, reference checks)
must be conducted prior to appointment. Candidates in possession of a foreign
qualification must furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Applicants
with foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their
qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). The recommended candidate may be subjected to medical
surveillance as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act
5/1993. The Medical Supplies Depot reserves the right to utilize practical
exercises/tests for non-SMS positions during the recruitment process to
determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s). The Gauteng Department
of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. People with
disabilities, Coloured Males and Females, Indian Males and Females, White
Males and Females are encouraged to apply. Kindly note that no payment of
any kind is required when applying for posts advertised by the Gauteng
66
Department of Health. The Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised posts.
CLOSING DATE : 30 September 2025
POST 33/88 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT: DEMAND, ACQUISITION AND
LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/023313
Directorate: Logistics
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), plus benefits
CENTRE : Medical Supplies Depot
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate, an appropriate 3-year Degree/National Diploma in
Logistics/SCM/Accounting /Public Management; A minimum of 3 years
appropriate experience in supply chain management (demand, procurement,
warehouse or logistics) processes and systems. A valid code B driving licence
is an added advantage. Competencies: Be able to demonstrate knowledge of
the Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Practice Notes,
Circulars and policy frameworks, Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment
Act 53 of 2003, the Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act and other
relevant public sector procurement legislation; Knowledge and experience of
contract management, strategic sourcing, public sector supply chain models
and processes; Understanding of delegation of authority; Computer literacy
(MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint); interpersonal; communication; knowledge of
computerized Procurement Management Systems; Analytical thinking;
Budgeting; Conflict resolution; reporting; Problem Solving; Stakeholder and
Relationship management.
DUTIES : Render end-to-end administration of matters related to bids/quotation
processing, specification, evaluation, and adjudication processes; Render
demand, acquisition, assets and logistics support. Prepare annual
procurement planning and aspects of demand management needs, commodity
and market analyses; Supervise the effective and efficient management and
administration of all provisioning and orders; Receive and verify goods from
suppliers; Prepare documentation for the approval from the quotation
committee, authorise official orders; Report on all Demand and Acquisition
Management activities to the relevant structures internally and externally;
Provide inventory management and support.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A Schwab, Tel No: (011) 628-9154 or Ms L Beukes Tel No: (011) 628 9053
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted strictly online at the following E-Recruitment
portal: http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. No hand-delivered, faxed, or emailed
applications will be accepted. For assistance with online applications, please
email your query to healthjobqueries@gauteng.gov.za
NOTE : Applications should be accompanied by a fully completed and signed new Z83
form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The new Z83 form must be fully completed and
signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D
must be completed. Leave the following question blank if they are not in
possession of such: “If your profession or occupation requires official
registration, provide date and particulars of registration”. Applications without
proof of a new Z83 application form and a detailed CV will be disqualified.
Applicants must indicate the post reference number on their applications.
Shortlisted candidates will receive communication from the HR unit to submit
certified copies of educational qualifications and other relevant documents not
older than 6 months on or before the day of the interview. Personnel Suitability
Checks (criminal checks, citizenship checks, qualification verification,
company directorship, social media, financial record checks, reference checks)
must be conducted prior to appointment. Candidates in possession of a foreign
qualification must furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Applicants
with foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their
qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). The recommended candidate may be subjected to medical
surveillance as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act
5/1993. The Medical Supplies Depot reserves the right to utilize practical
exercises/tests for non-SMS positions during the recruitment process to
determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s). The Gauteng Department
of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. People with
disabilities, Coloured Males and Females, Indian Males and Females, White
67
Males and Females are encouraged to apply. Kindly note that no payment of
any kind is required when applying for posts advertised by the Gauteng
Department of Health. The Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised posts.
CLOSING DATE : 30 September 2025
POST 33/89 : OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY OFFICER REF NO: REFS/023306
Directorate: Human Resource Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), plus benefits
CENTRE : Medical Supplies Depot
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate, an appropriate recognized National Diploma / Degree in
Safety Management. Must have a SAMTRAC certificate. 3 years’ experience
in the Occupational Health and Safety field. Registered with the SAIOSH
professional bodies will be an added advantage. The candidate must have
extensive knowledge of Occupational Health & Safety Act 85 of 1993, Public
Finance Management Act 1 of 1999, Compensation of Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act 130 of 1993, Disaster Management Act 57 of 2002, and the
EHW strategic Framework. The candidate must have excellent communication
and problem-solving skills. A valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Coordinate, monitor, advise and render health and safety administration.
Monitor OHS compliance. Conduct OHS inspections and audits. Facilitate
prompt response and resolution of all faults identified. Monitor compliance with
OHS requirements within the department. Coordinate OHS trainings and
awareness programmes within the department. Monitor the functionality of the
OHS Committee. Ensure compliance with emergency equipment. Prepare and
implement the emergency/evacuation drills in the Department. Liaise with
facilities management to conduct building inspections. Attend to IOD matters
and develop an incident register. Facilitate and coordinate the development of
occupational health and safety policies, procedures and guidelines. Ability to
supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. G.S Mbokazi Tel No: (011) 628-9012 / Mr V.M Maiwashe Tel No: (011) 628
9119
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted strictly online at the following E-Recruitment
portal: http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. No hand-delivered, faxed, or emailed
applications will be accepted. For assistance with online applications, please
email your query to healthjobqueries@gauteng.gov.za
NOTE : Applications should be accompanied by a fully completed and signed new Z83
form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The new Z83 form must be fully completed and
signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D
must be completed. Leave the following question blank if they are not in
possession of such: “If your profession or occupation requires official
registration, provide date and particulars of registration”. Applications without
proof of a new Z83 application form and a detailed CV will be disqualified.
Applicants must indicate the post reference number on their applications.
Shortlisted candidates will receive communication from the HR unit to submit
certified copies of educational qualifications and other relevant documents not
older than 6 months on or before the day of the interview. Personnel Suitability
Checks (criminal checks, citizenship checks, qualification verification,
company directorship, social media, financial record checks, reference checks)
must be conducted prior to appointment. Candidates in possession of a foreign
qualification must furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Applicants
with foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their
qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). The recommended candidate may be subjected to medical
surveillance as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act
5/1993. The Medical Supplies Depot reserves the right to utilize practical
exercises/tests for non-SMS positions during the recruitment process to
determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s). The Gauteng Department
of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. People with
disabilities, Coloured Males and Females, Indian Males and Females, White
Males and Females are encouraged to apply. Kindly note that no payment of
any kind is required when applying for posts advertised by the Gauteng
68
Department of Health. The Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised posts.
CLOSING DATE : 30 September 2025
POST 33/90 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT POST BASIC REF NO: REFS/023314 (X2
POSTS)
Directorate: Warehouse
SALARY : R264 750 per annum, (OSD), plus benefits
CENTRE : Medical Supplies Depot
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate, Post Basic Pharmacist Assistant qualification.
Registration with the South African Pharmacy Council as a Post Basic
Pharmacist Assistant. Minimum of 1-year experience in warehousing, including
stock management, stock-taking, distribution and general warehouse
operations. Good leadership and supervisory skills, proactive decision-making
skills, and strong written and verbal communication skills are necessary.
Excellent time management and interactive skills Computer literacy. Extensive
understanding of the Pharmacy Act, Medicines and Related Substances Act,
Good Pharmacy Practice, Good Distribution Practice, Good Warehousing
Practice, Public Finance Management Act, and waste management principles.
Physically fit and able to lift heavy boxes repeatedly, willingness to work in a
temperature-controlled environment (cold-rooms).
DUTIES : Support the warehouse supervisor/pharmacist in daily operations. Supervise
and perform the receiving, storage, issuing and distribution of pharmaceuticals
within the designated store, ensuring compliance with FIFO/FEFO stock
management principles. Assist in staff supervision, including SOP training,
disciplinary process, leave planning and time and attendance monitoring.
Participate in stock control processes, including cyclic count and the
preparation of the annual and bi-annual stock take. Assist in complaint
resolution from health facilities in line with SOPs. Ensure compliance with all
relevant legislation, SOPs, and quality standards (GPP, GDP, GWP, Pharmacy
Act, PFMA. Ensure Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) compliance,
including enforcement of wearing protective clothing and maintaining a safe
warehouse environment. Support performance management processes by
ensuring that performance reviews are completed as per schedule. Contribute
to the development of staff in the warehouse. Must be willing to rotate within
different sections of the Warehouse when operationally required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. C Ramaphakela Tel No: (011) 628-9046 / Ms N Nama Tel No: (011) 628
9183
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted strictly online at the following E-Recruitment
portal: http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. No hand-delivered, faxed, or emailed
applications will be accepted. For assistance with online applications, please
email your query to healthjobqueries@gauteng.gov.za
NOTE : Applications should be accompanied by a fully completed and signed new Z83
form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The new Z83 form must be fully completed and
signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D
must be completed. Leave the following question blank if they are not in
possession of such: “If your profession or occupation requires official
registration, provide date and particulars of registration”. Applications without
proof of a new Z83 application form and a detailed CV will be disqualified.
Applicants must indicate the post reference number on their applications.
Shortlisted candidates will receive communication from the HR unit to submit
certified copies of educational qualifications and other relevant documents not
older than 6 months on or before the day of the interview. Personnel Suitability
Checks (criminal checks, citizenship checks, qualification verification,
company directorship, social media, financial record checks, reference checks)
must be conducted prior to appointment. Candidates in possession of a foreign
qualification must furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Applicants
with foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their
qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). The recommended candidate may be subjected to medical
surveillance as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act
5/1993. The Medical Supplies Depot reserves the right to utilize practical
exercises/tests for non-SMS positions during the recruitment process to
69
determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s). The Gauteng Department
of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. People with
disabilities, Coloured Males and Females, Indian Males and Females, White
Males and Females are encouraged to apply. Kindly note that no payment of
any kind is required when applying for posts advertised by the Gauteng
Department of Health. The Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised posts.
CLOSING DATE : 30 September 2025
POST 33/91 : AUXILIARY WORKERS REF NO: REFS/023307 (X7 POSTS)
Directorate: Warehouse
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), plus benefits
CENTRE : Medical Supplies Depot
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate (Mathematics core, life sciences, physical science and
English as subjects). Must be physically fit and be able to lift heavy boxes
repeatedly. Be reliable, a team player, willingness to work in a temperature-
controlled environment (cold-rooms). Computer literate, Planning, problem
solving, decision making, attention to detail, teamwork, good communication,
good time management and interactive skills.
DUTIES : Receiving of stock from suppliers according to standard operating procedures,
Good Distribution Practice and Good Pharmacy practice standards: offloading
trucks and moving stock into the appropriate quarantine area, moving of stock
to storage areas and packing stock on correct shelves according to FEFO/
FIFO principles. Participate in stock control processes, including cyclic count,
annual and bi-annual stock take. Issuing of ordered stock according to
standard operating procedures. Moving of roll-trainers to the dispatch area.
Maintain cleanliness and organization of the warehouse according to standard
operating procedures (SOPs). Participate in routine stock counts and inventory
audits. Perform a range of manual and clerical tasks while maintaining strict
adherence to Good Distribution Practice (GDP) and warehouse safety
protocols. Safely operate equipment (pallet jacks, forklifts). Support the
warehouse supervisor in day-to-day operation. Assist in store quality audits and
corrective actions. Must be willing to be rotated in various stores in the
warehouse.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. C Ramaphakela Tel No: (011) 628-9046 / Ms N Nama Tel No: (011) 628
9183
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted strictly online at the following E-Recruitment
portal: http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. No hand-delivered, faxed, or emailed
applications will be accepted. For assistance with online applications, please
email your query to healthjobqueries@gauteng.gov.za
NOTE : Applications should be accompanied by a fully completed and signed new Z83
form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The new Z83 form must be fully completed and
signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D
must be completed. Leave the following question blank if they are not in
possession of such: “If your profession or occupation requires official
registration, provide date and particulars of registration”. Applications without
proof of a new Z83 application form and a detailed CV will be disqualified.
Applicants must indicate the post reference number on their applications.
Shortlisted candidates will receive communication from the HR unit to submit
certified copies of educational qualifications and other relevant documents not
older than 6 months on or before the day of the interview. Personnel Suitability
Checks (criminal checks, citizenship checks, qualification verification,
company directorship, social media, financial record checks, reference checks)
must be conducted prior to appointment. Candidates in possession of a foreign
qualification must furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Applicants
with foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their
qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). The recommended candidate may be subjected to medical
surveillance as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act
5/1993. The Medical Supplies Depot reserves the right to utilize practical
exercises/tests for non-SMS positions during the recruitment process to
determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s). The Gauteng Department
of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. People with
70
disabilities, Coloured Males and Females, Indian Males and Females, White
Males and Females are encouraged to apply. Kindly note that no payment of
any kind is required when applying for posts advertised by the Gauteng
Department of Health. The Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised posts.
CLOSING DATE : 30 September 2025
POST 33/92 : SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: REFS/023315
Directorate: Security
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), plus benefits
CENTRE : Medical Supplies Depot
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate, certificate in CCTV/Control room operations,3 years’
experience in the security and safety in the Public Health environment.
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Email), knowledge of CCTV
surveillance cameras, knowledge of access control systems and control room.
Conflict resolution and negotiation skills. Report writing skills. Knowledge of
legislative applicable to the security field,e.g. control of access to public
premises and Vehicle Act, no.53 of 1985, MISS and the Criminal Procedure Act
51 of 1977 etc. Firearm Control Act. Sound knowledge of Labour Relations
process. PMDS, knowledge process and safety and fire Prevention. No
criminal record.
DUTIES : Supervise both internal and contracted security personnel. Monitor access
control to prevent unauthorized entry in the buildings and other premises.
Develop, implement and manage safety and security measures. Check
security registers, SOPs, and personnel at relevant posts. Ensure both
outsourced and in-house security work according to the prescribed contract.
Do a walk-about inspection. Attend effectively to conflict solutions. Retrieve
staff data from the computer on a monthly basis as requested by management.
Identify risks and threats to the security of the department. Inspect and report
all non-functioning security measures (e.g. Turnstiles, CCTV cameras, security
lights), monitor and provide support in case of emergencies. Administer the key
control system. Monitor and respond to the alarm system. Report faulty
equipment/systems. Report all incidents and any identified non-compliance
relating to security prescripts. Update all registers for the incidents observed.
Perform any other duties delegated by the supervisor. Monitoring and operating
electronic security systems and equipment in the control room.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Lekgothoane Tel No: (011) 628-9120
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted strictly online at the following E-Recruitment
portal: http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. No hand-delivered, faxed, or emailed
applications will be accepted. For assistance with online applications, please
email your query to healthjobqueries@gauteng.gov.za
NOTE : Applications should be accompanied by a fully completed and signed new Z83
form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The new Z83 form must be fully completed and
signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D
must be completed. Leave the following question blank if they are not in
possession of such: “If your profession or occupation requires official
registration, provide date and particulars of registration”. Applications without
proof of a new Z83 application form and a detailed CV will be disqualified.
Applicants must indicate the post reference number on their applications.
Shortlisted candidates will receive communication from the HR unit to submit
certified copies of educational qualifications and other relevant documents not
older than 6 months on or before the day of the interview. Personnel Suitability
Checks (criminal checks, citizenship checks, qualification verification,
company directorship, social media, financial record checks, reference checks)
must be conducted prior to appointment. Candidates in possession of a foreign
qualification must furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Applicants
with foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their
qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). The recommended candidate may be subjected to medical
surveillance as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act
5/1993. The Medical Supplies Depot reserves the right to utilize practical
exercises/tests for non-SMS positions during the recruitment process to
determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s). The Gauteng Department
71
of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. People with
disabilities, Coloured Males and Females, Indian Males and Females, White
Males and Females are encouraged to apply. Kindly note that no payment of
any kind is required when applying for posts advertised by the Gauteng
Department of Health. The Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised posts.
CLOSING DATE : 30 September 2025
POST 33/93 : HRM REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: REFS/023312
Directorate: Human Resource Management
SALARY : R228 321 per annum, plus benefits
CENTRE : Medical Supplies Depot
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate, exposure in Records Management and/or Human
Resource Management in public health will be an added advantage, reading,
confidentiality, self-discipline, planning and organising, good verbal and written
communication, computer literacy, flexibility, teamwork. Priority will be given to
the EPWP or current and former MSD interns. Competencies: Knowledge of
registry duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data and operate a
computer, knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the public services, knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures
in terms of the working environment, understanding of the work in the registry
and knowledge of disposal procedures.
DUTIES : Receive, register, and file all HR-related documents and correspondence.
Open, maintain, and update physical and electronic files, ensuring they adhere
to a proper classification system. Organise and maintain filing plans and
systems, including allocating file reference numbers and performing spot
checks to ensure accurate filing. Manage incoming and outgoing files, including
registering hand-delivered items and operating franking machines. Process
documents for archiving and disposal, preparing files for storage and compiling
lists of documents to be archived. Retrieve requested documents for internal
HR staff and assist auditors by providing files for investigations and audits.
Provide registry counter services, assisting staff with their registry-related
queries and tasks. Ensure the safe custody and protection of all files and
records. Assist with departmental audits by preparing and providing necessary
documentation and ensuring an audit trail for file movements. Perform various
administrative tasks and operate office machines relevant to registry functions.
Conduct accurate data entry and maintain electronic databases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V.M Maiwashe Tel No: (011) 628-9119
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted strictly online at the following E-Recruitment
portal: http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. No hand-delivered, faxed, or emailed
applications will be accepted. For assistance with online applications, please
email your query to healthjobqueries@gauteng.gov.za
NOTE : Applications should be accompanied by a fully completed and signed new Z83
form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The new Z83 form must be fully completed and
signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D
must be completed. Leave the following question blank if they are not in
possession of such: “If your profession or occupation requires official
registration, provide date and particulars of registration”. Applications without
proof of a new Z83 application form and a detailed CV will be disqualified.
Applicants must indicate the post reference number on their applications.
Shortlisted candidates will receive communication from the HR unit to submit
certified copies of educational qualifications and other relevant documents not
older than 6 months on or before the day of the interview. Personnel Suitability
Checks (criminal checks, citizenship checks, qualification verification,
company directorship, social media, financial record checks, reference checks)
must be conducted prior to appointment. Candidates in possession of a foreign
qualification must furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Applicants
with foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their
qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). The recommended candidate may be subjected to medical
surveillance as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act
5/1993. The Medical Supplies Depot reserves the right to utilize practical
exercises/tests for non-SMS positions during the recruitment process to
72
determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s). The Gauteng Department
of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. People with
disabilities, Coloured Males and Females, Indian Males and Females, White
Males and Females are encouraged to apply. Kindly note that no payment of
any kind is required when applying for posts advertised by the Gauteng
Department of Health. The Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised posts.
CLOSING DATE : 30 September 2025
POST 33/94 : AUXILIARY WORKERS REF NO: REFS/023303 (X4 POSTS)
Directorate: Warehouse
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04), plus benefits
CENTRE : Medical Supplies Depot
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate (Mathematics core, life sciences, physical science and
English) as subjects. Must be physically fit and be able to lift heavy boxes
repeatedly. Be reliable, a team player, willingness to work in a temperature-
controlled environment (cold-rooms). Computer literate, Planning, problem
solving, decision making, attention to detail, teamwork, good communication,
good time management and interactive skills.
DUTIES : Receiving stock from suppliers: offloading trucks and moving stock into the
appropriate quarantine area, moving of stock to stores and packing stock on
correct shelves. Assist with collecting rolltainers and moving them to the
dispatch area. Maintain cleanliness and organization of the warehouse
according to standard operating procedures (SOPs). Participate in routine
stock counts and inventory audits. Perform a range of manual and clerical tasks
while maintaining strict adherence to Good Distribution Practice (GDP) and
warehouse safety protocols. Safely operate equipment (pallet jacks, forklift).
ENQUIRIES : Ms. C Ramaphakela, Tel No: (011) 628-9046 / Ms N Nama Tel No: (011) 628
9183
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted strictly online at the following E-Recruitment
portal: http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. No hand-delivered, faxed, or emailed
applications will be accepted. For assistance with online applications, please
email your query to healthjobqueries@gauteng.gov.za
NOTE : Applications should be accompanied by a fully completed and signed new Z83
form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The new Z83 form must be fully completed and
signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D
must be completed. Leave the following question blank if they are not in
possession of such: “If your profession or occupation requires official
registration, provide date and particulars of registration”. Applications without
proof of a new Z83 application form and a detailed CV will be disqualified.
Applicants must indicate the post reference number on their applications.
Shortlisted candidates will receive communication from the HR unit to submit
certified copies of educational qualifications and other relevant documents not
older than 6 months on or before the day of the interview. Personnel Suitability
Checks (criminal checks, citizenship checks, qualification verification,
company directorship, social media, financial record checks, reference checks)
must be conducted prior to appointment. Candidates in possession of a foreign
qualification must furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Applicants
with foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their
qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). The recommended candidate may be subjected to medical
surveillance as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act
5/1993. The Medical Supplies Depot reserves the right to utilize practical
exercises/tests for non-SMS positions during the recruitment process to
determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s). The Gauteng Department
of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. People with
disabilities, Coloured Males and Females, Indian Males and Females, White
Males and Females are encouraged to apply. Kindly note that no payment of
any kind is required when applying for posts advertised by the Gauteng
Department of Health. The Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised posts.
CLOSING DATE : 30 September 2025
73
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SETTLEMENTS (GDHS)
CLOSING DATE : 30 September 2025
NOTE : Requirement of applications: No late applications will be considered. No faxed
or emailed applications will be accepted. The Gauteng Department of Human
Settlements promotes equal opportunity and aims to implement affirmative
action measures to address the disadvantages in employment. Preference
may be given to appointable applicants from the underrepresented designated
groups in terms of the department’s equity plan. Candidates whose
appointment will promote representativity in terms of race, disability, youth &
gender will receive preference. Whites, Indians, Coloureds and Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). Applications should be submitted strictly online at
https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za and it should be accompanied by a new Z83 and a
comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV) only. Certified copies of qualifications,
Identity and valid driver’s license (where driving/travelling is an inherent
requirement of the job) will be limited to shortlisted candidates only.
Correspondence will only be limited to shortlisted candidates. If you have not
been contacted within 3 months of the closing date of this advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. For all SMS positions,
the successful completion of the Public Service Senior Management
Leadership Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government
and possession of the SMS Pre-Entry Certificate is required prior to
appointment. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-pre-entry-programme/.
Following the interview and exercise, the selection panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic management competency assessment (in
compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-
based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing generic
management and development for SMS posts. The Department reserves the
right not to make appointment(s) to the advertised post(s).
OTHER POSTS
POST 33/95 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/023328
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all - inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as
recognized by SAQA in Town and/or Regional Planning /Construction Project
Management/Project and/or Programme Management and/or equivalent
qualifications in the Built Environment. A minimum of 3-5 years relevant
experience at Assistant Director level or equivalent within Infrastructure
Project/Programme Management. Possession of a valid driver’s license. Skills
And Competencies: The incumbent should have knowledge & understanding
of GIAMA, Housing Code, Human Settlements Sector Plans, Framework for
Infrastructure Development & Procurement Management, Gauteng IDMS
Framework, Construction Industry Development Board Act of 2000 and
Regulations, all Best Practices Guides, Council for Built Environment Act of
2000, PFMA/DoRA/Treasury Regulations, Practice Notes, Instructions and
Circulars. Promotion of Access to Information Act of 2000, Promotion of
Administrative Justice Act of 2000, National Building Standards Act of 1977 and
Regulations, National Environmental Management Act of 2008 and
Amendments. Planning and organising skills, Strategic capability and
leadership, programme and project management, decision making, analytical
skills, conflict management, Financial and knowledge management, good
verbal and written communication skills, report writing and presentation skills.
DUTIES : Manage the planning of Infrastructure Asset Management processes. Manage
the development, implementation and monitoring of the Infrastructure Asset
Management Plan (I-AMP). Analyse housing sector needs and housing market
trends. Collate and analyse infrastructure project proposals and commitments.
Manage the confirmation of needs and priorities of the Department for
infrastructure projects. Monitor and coordinate the development of
Infrastructure Programme and Operations & Maintenance Plans and ensure
alignment to I-AMP, IPMP, IPIP and Business Plans. Coordinate the analysis
74
assessment of infrastructure portfolio, performance and risk reports. Liaise with
internal and external stakeholders. Provide inputs and support to Business
Plan team. Management of the Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Alinah Mogaswa at 072 313 8052
APPLICATIONS : Please apply online at https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za/
POST 33/96 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INCOME AND EXPENDITURE CONTROL REF NO:
REFS/023329
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all - inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognized by
SAQA in Finance/Cost & Management Accounting/ B Comm Accounting or any
relevant qualification. A minimum of 5 years relevant experience at Assistant
Director level within financial administration or management accounting
environment. Possession of a valid driver’s licence. The candidate should have
knowledge of Knowledge of Public Financial Management Act; Knowledge of
Treasury Regulation; Knowledge of the BAS and SAP; Financial Management
Skills; Knowledge of BAS, PERSAL and SAP and other information
management systems; Laws and regulations pertaining to financial accounting,
internal controls, and corporate governance. Skills And Competencies: People
Management and empowerment; Service Delivery Innovation; Client
Orientation and Customer Focus; Planning, organising and execution; Ability
to manage conflict; Negotiation skills. Good written and verbal communication
skills. Self-motivated. Work well under pressure. Good Interpersonal skills.
Reliable and Responsible. Positive attitude.
DUTIES : Monitor and correct the department’s expenditure transactions and provide and
accounts payable management function. Manage internal control procedures,
processes and controls for processing of payment transactions within 15 and
30 days. Monitor expenditure incurred and submit reports and plans as
required. Manage adherence of financial delegations as approved by
accounting officer to eliminate irregular expenditure. Manage and coordinate
BAS and SAP payments. Compile journal to correctly allocate expenditure
transactions. Identify items that might have been erroneously debited while
paying or credited whilst correcting misallocations. Check journals before
processing. Authorize journals in BAS systems. Ensure all suppliers are
accounted for. Manage receipt of invoices and S&T claims due for payment.
Ensuring that invoices and S&T claims are date stamped before beginning
payments process. Authorize payment vouchers on BAS and LOGIS systems.
Communication with suppliers and end users for payment related issues.
Validate creditors balances accurately. Manage recording of debtors and
creditors on the system. Manage the age analysis of debtors and the collection
thereof on consultation with e-Gov. Management of debt recoveries with e-Gov.
Implement a financial account system. Manage ledger suspense accounts
transactions prior the preparedness of reconciliations. Manage cash flow in the
bank account to avoid bank charges and overdraft. Manage transactions on
the trial balance to ensure that all are cleared on monthly, quarterly and yearly
basis. Manage receivables and payables accounting functions. Supervision of
staff. Maintenance of discipline. Management of performance and
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Alinah Mogaswa at 072 313 8052
APPLICATIONS : Please apply online at https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za
POST 33/97 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SERVICE DELIVERY AND RAPID RESPONSE REF
NO: REFS/023330 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all - inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognized by
SAQA in Public Management/Public Relations or relevant/ equivalent
qualification in Customer Relations. A minimum of 3 -5 years relevant
experience at an Assistant Director level within Customer Relations
Environment. Possession of a valid driver’s license. Skills And Competencies:
The incumbent should have knowledge & understanding of Housing Code,
PFMA, Housing Processes and Human Settlements programmes. Planning
and organising skills, Time management skills, leadership management skills,
multilingual, project management and community research. Client orientation
75
expertise and local government understanding, supervisory skills, coordination
& events management skills, risk management skills, negotiation & conflict
resolution skills, policy interpretation, administration skills, facilitation and
listening skills. Good verbal and written communication skills, report writing and
presentation skills. Positive attitude.
DUTIES Establish, promote and manage stakeholder engagements. Establish Project
Steering Committees and Stakeholder forums. Conduct Ntirhisano & Public
Participation Consultation. Prevention of service delivery disruptions. Conduct
research on service delivery disruptions. Develop strategies to mitigate service
delivery disruptions. Plan and coordinate interventions on service delivery
disruptions. Investigate and respond to all queries received from Office of the
MEC, Premiers Office, Sister Departments, Municipalities, communities, Public
Protector, Human Rights Commission, Human Settlements Ombudsman.
Manage service delivery and rapid response services in the Human Settlement
service centres. Manage, coordinate and promote social facilitation and
cohesion. Management of the Sub-Directorate. Develop, implement and
maintain processes to ensure proper control of work. Compile and submit all
required administrative reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Alinah Mogaswa at 072 313 8052
APPLICATIONS : Please apply online at https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za
POST 33/98 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: REFS/023331
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all - inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognized by
SAQA in Labour Relations or Human Resource Management with Labour
Relations as a Major or Specialisation. A minimum of 3-5 years relevant
experience at Assistant Director level in a Labour Relations environment.
Possession of a valid driver’s license. Skills And Competencies: The incumbent
should possess knowledge of Labour Relations, Human Resource
Management, Public Service Legislative Frameworks, Collective Agreements
and PSCBC Resolutions. Knowledge of PERSAL System and Organisational
Design, transformation and its challenges. Strategic capability and leadership,
programme and project management, negotiation skills, conflict management,
Financial and knowledge management, good verbal and written
communication skill and Report writing skills. Positive attitude.
DUTIES : Manage and monitor the implementation of Labour Relations strategies,
policies and procedures in line with the Public Services framework. Manage,
monitor, review and improve the handling of grievances and discipline in line
with the grievance and disciplinary framework. Oversee the implementation,
review and improvement of the handling of dispute/s and collective bargaining
in the Department. Represent the Department at the Provincial Chambers for
Public Service Coordinating Bargaining Council (PSCBC) and General Public
Service Sectoral Bargaining Council (GPSSBC). Attend and represent the
Department during Conciliation and Arbitration hearings. Conduct reviews,
rescission/s and condonation applications. Brief appointed attorneys and office
of the state attorneys on labour relations disputes and / or cases. Compile and
submit all required administrative reports. Management of the sub-business
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Alinah Mogaswa at 072 313 8052
APPLICATIONS : Please apply online at https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za
POST 33/99 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT AND COORDINATION
REF NO: REFS/023332
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all - inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognized by
SAQA in Office Administration/Public Administration/ Public Management/
Business Management. A minimum of 3-5 years relevant experience at
Assistant Director level within Executive Support environment. Possession of
a valid driver’s license. The candidate should have knowledge of the Public
Service Regulations, Best Practice Business Continuity Good Practice
Guidelines, Knowledge of government planning and reporting mechanisms,
Framework for Strategic Plans and Annual Performance Plans 2010 and
knowledge of International Protocol. Competencies And Skills: Strategic
76
capability and Leadership, People Management and empowerment,
Programme and Project Management, Human Resource Management,
Financial Management and Change Management. Service delivery innovation,
analytical, knowledge management, honesty and integrity. Good written and
verbal communication skills. Self-motivated. Work well under pressure. Good
Interpersonal skills, reliable and responsible. Deadline driven and positive
attitude.
DUTIES : Manage the administrative and coordination activities within the office of the
executive authority. Develop, implement and maintain systems, registers and
databases to monitor and manage the flow of documents to, from and within
the office of the executive authority. Liaise with internal and external role
players with regards to matters relating to the portfolio of the executive
authority. Render a Cabinet/executive council support service to the executive
authority. Manage the distribution of memoranda to Cabinet/executive council
members. Manage the distribution of documents and submissions to the
relevant legislature and standing/portfolio committees. Staff supervision.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Alinah Mogaswa at 072 313 8052
APPLICATIONS : Please apply online at https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za
POST 33/100 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DEMAND AND ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT REF
NO: REFS/023333 (X2 POSTS)
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all - inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognized by
SAQA in Supply Chain Management. A minimum of 5 years’ relevant
experience within Supply Chain Management environment at Assistant
Director level. The candidate should have knowledge of all the Public Service
prescripts applicable to the role as well as the Department’s mandate.
Knowledge of performance management frameworks applicable in the Public
Service and proven strategies in performance improvement. Skills And
Competencies: Strategic capability and Leadership, People Management and
empowerment, Programme and Project Management, Financial Management
and Change Management. Problem solving and analysis, Client orientation
and customer focus, Service Delivery Innovation, Honesty and Integrity. Good
written and verbal communication. Self-motivated. Work well under pressure.
Good Interpersonal skills. Supportive and knowing how to draw the best energy
out of the team. Reliable and Responsible. Positive attitude.
DUTIES : Manage the functional operation of Demand and Acquisition Management.
Manage, design and develop demand and acquisition management policies
processes and procedures. Inform, guide and advice departmental employees
on demand management matters to promote correct implementation and
sound demand management practices. Compile procurement plan and obtain
approval. Setting up the Bid Evaluation, Bid Adjudication and Bid Specification
Committees and render SCM advisory services to the relevant committees.
Oversee the appointment of bid committee members. Compile
tender/quotation specifications as required. Determine whether specification
for the relevant commodity exists, if not oversee the collection of information
and compile specification/terms of reference. Oversee the bidding process.
Manage compilation of bid documents and advertisements. Manage publishing
of bid documents. Manage the receipt (closing and opening) of bid documents.
Processing of bid documents. Monitor the database of approved suppliers.
Oversee the coordination, compilation and submission of information for audit
purposes. Oversee the compilation and timeous submission of audit related
information. SCM Reporting. Compile reports and oversee the reporting on the
execution of the procurement plan and other related supply chain management
administrative reports. Report on the execution of the procurement plan and
other supply chain management administrative related activities. Management
of sub-directorate. Maintenance of discipline. Management of performance and
development. Establish, implement, and maintain efficient and effective
communication arrangements. Develop and manage the operational plan of
the unit and report on progress as required. Compile and submit all required
administrative reports. Procurement and asset management. Plan and allocate
work.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Alinah Mogaswa at 072 313 8052
APPLICATIONS : Please apply online at https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za
77
POST 33/101 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT REF NO:
REFS/023334
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as
recognized by SAQA in Town and/or Regional Planning /Construction Project
Management/Project and/or Programme Management and/or equivalent
qualifications in the Built Environment. A minimum of 3-5 years relevant
experience at Admin Officer level or equivalent within Infrastructure
Project/Programme Management. Possession of a valid driver’s license. Skills
And Competencies: The incumbent should have knowledge & understanding
of GIAMA, Housing Code, Human Settlements Sector Plans, Framework for
Infrastructure Development & Procurement Management, Gauteng IDMS
Framework, Construction Industry Development Board Act of 2000 and
Regulations, all Best Practices Guides, Council for Built Environment Act of
2000, PFMA/DoRA/Treasury Regulations, Practice Notes, Instructions and
Circulars. Promotion of Access to Information Act of 2000, Promotion of
Administrative Justice Act of 2000, National Building Standards Act of 1977 and
Regulations, National Environmental Management Act of 2008 and
Amendments. Planning and organising skills, financial management skills,
programme and project management, customer focus & responsiveness,
conflict management skills and problem-solving analysis. Good verbal and
written communication skills, report writing and presentation skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate the planning of Infrastructure Asset Management processes.
Coordinate the development, implementation and monitoring of the
Infrastructure Asset Management Plan (I-AMP). Analyse housing sector needs
and housing market trends. Collate and analyse infrastructure project
proposals and commitments. Coordinate the confirmation of needs and
priorities of the Department for infrastructure projects. Coordinate and facilitate
the development of Infrastructure Programme and Operations & Maintenance
Plans and ensure alignment to I-AMP, IPMP, IPIP and Business Plans.
Coordinate the analysis assessment of infrastructure portfolio, performance
and risk reports. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders. Provide inputs
and support to Business Plan team. Provide general office support.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Alinah Mogaswa at 072 313 8052
APPLICATIONS : Please apply online at https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za
POST 33/102 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ICT GOVERNANCE AND SERVICE DELIVERY
REF NO: REFS/023335
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as
recognized by SAQA in Information Communication and Technology
Environment (Computer Science or Informatics). Certification in ITIL, COBIT,
ISO. A minimum of 3-5 years relevant experience at Admin Officer level within
Information Communication and Technology ICT Governance and Service
Delivery Environment. Possession of a valid driver’s license. Skills And
Competencies: The incumbent should have knowledge & understanding of
Department and GPG IT policies and procedures, relevant Legislation, IT case
management/ Database system operation. Understanding GPG and
departmental business organisation, IT management and administration
processes and knowledge of Departmental Service Level Agreements (SLA’s)
with E-Gov. Planning, organising and execution skills, financial management
skills, programme and project management, problem-solving analysis,
knowledge management, client orientation and customer focus. Good verbal
and written communication skills, language proficiency and negotiation skills.
DUTIES : Provide, monitor and report on ICT Service Delivery services. Provide and
ensure timely and accessible responsive ICT service desk. Advice relevant
stakeholders on ICT Service Delivery and Support related matters. Conduct
investigation on breaches of SLA targets and provide feedback to service
providers and/or clients. Monitor Implementation of service level management
and ensure adherence to Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL)
disciplines and best practices. Provide, monitor and report on all ICT Corporate
Governance and Risk Management. Facilitate IT risk assessment processes
78
and provide subject matter expertise on all IT domains. Attend all Governance
and Risk Management forums and meetings as delegated by management.
Produce, maintain and support ICT Business Continuity Management and
Recovery. Perform Business Impact Analysis to determine the impact of a
disaster and how long the business can survive from lacking any ICT Service.
Coordinate and facilitate the development and implementation of ICT
Governance policies and Service Level Agreements. Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Alinah Mogaswa at 072 313 8052
APPLICATIONS : Please apply online at https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za
POST 33/103 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SECTOR TRANSFORMATION REF NO:
REFS/023336
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as
recognized by SAQA in Humanities/Social Sciences or Public Management. A
minimum of 3-5 years Admin Officer level experience in Transformation on
women, youth, persons with disability, Diversity Management, BBBEE
compliance, Youth Development and mainstreaming programmes. Possession
of a valid driver’s license. Skills & Competencies: The incumbent should have
knowledge & understanding of mainstreaming of women, youth, persons with
disabilities, BBBEE, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA),
Gender Responsive Planning, Budgeting, Monitoring, Evaluation and Auditing
Framework (GRPBMEA), Employment Equity Act, Public Finance
Management Act and Treasury regulations. Financial management skills, data
management and analysis skills, strategic capability & leadership, service
delivery innovation, willing to work under changing and difficult circumstances,
facilitation skills and networking, project management research skills, customer
focus & responsiveness, conflict management skills and problem-solving
analysis, risk management, accuracy, and client-focused strategist. Good
verbal and written communication skills and report writing skills.
DUTIES : Collect, quality assures data and develop comprehensive reports on
Departmental designated groups (women, youth, person with disabilities and
older persons) mainstreaming targets and programmes. Conducting
designated groups analysis and research on Departmental policies, programs,
and services. Examining Departmental internal strategic documents including
policies to identify designated groups biases and disparities. Analyse data and
identify trends, gaps, and best practices for designated groups initiatives.
Contributing to the development of designated groups policies and
programmes. Coordinate and prepare progress reports on implementation of
corrective action plan for non-performing targets. Facilitate bilateral
engagements with all relevant stakeholders on designated mainstreaming
initiatives. Coordinate bilateral meetings with various internal and external
stakeholders on designated groups mainstreaming. Facilitate GEYODI
Committee and bilateral meetings, logistics management, taking minutes,
report writing and follow up of action items from the committee. Facilitate and
consolidate reports to ensure reports are accurate and meet all reporting
deadlines with various stakeholders. Prepare and produce high-quality reports,
and policy papers on designated groups mainstreaming. Editing and
proofreading documents to ensure accuracy and clarity. Conduct site visits on
projects implemented in line with prescribed norms and standards. Coordinate
the compilation of monthly, quarterly, and end of financial year reports.
Supervision of the business unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Alinah Mogaswa at 072 313 8052
APPLICATIONS : Please apply online at https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za
POST 33/104 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: GEYODI MAINSTREAMING REF NO:
REFS/023337
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as
recognized by SAQA in Humanities/Social Sciences/Business
Management\HR Management\Data Science Management or Public
Management and other related qualifications. A minimum of 3-5 years Admin
Officer level experience in Transformation on women, youth, persons with
79
disability, Diversity Management, BBBEE compliance, Monitoring & Evaluation
and mainstreaming programmes. Possession of a valid driver’s license. Skills
And Competencies: The incumbent should have knowledge & understanding
of mainstreaming of women, youth, persons with disabilities, BBBEE
compliance, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA), Gender
Responsive Planning, Budgeting, Monitoring, Evaluation and Auditing
Framework (GRPBMEA), Employment Equity Act, Public Finance
Management Act and Treasury regulations. Financial management skills, data
management and analysis skills, strategic capability & leadership, service
delivery innovation, willing to work under changing and difficult circumstances,
facilitation skills and networking, project management, research skills,
customer focus & responsiveness, conflict management skills and problem-
solving analysis, risk management, accuracy, client-focused strategist. Good
verbal and written communication skills and report writing skills.
DUTIES : Designing and managing monitoring and evaluation tools to track designated
groups equality progress. Review and input into existing policies, strategies
and departmental performance plans relating to designated groups equality.
Facilitate sensitisation engagements with affected business units to address
identified gaps. Monitor and evaluate the implementation of departmental
designated groups mainstreaming strategies and policies. Conduct site visits
on projects implemented in line with building prescribed norms and standards
for designated groups specifically persons with disabilities. Conduct
designated groups audits and assessments on designated groups
mainstreaming initiatives to ensure equal opportunities and fair treatment
through elimination of unfair discrimination. Ensuring designated groups-
sensitive indicators are included into departmental performance plans in line
with designated groups mainstreaming framework. Conduct a designated
groups audit through reviewing existing performance plans to identify
designated groups gaps and biases. Prepare and consolidate recommendation
reports to ensure departments accountability in achieving designated groups
equality targets. Prepare and consolidate comprehensive M&E reports for
designated groups mainstreaming initiatives. Coordinate the compilation of
monthly, quarterly, and end of financial year reports. Supervision of the
business unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Alinah Mogaswa at 072 313 8052
APPLICATIONS : Please apply online at https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za
POST 33/105 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ADVOCACY FOR VULNERABLE GROUPS REF
NO: REFS/023338
SALARY : R468 459.per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as
recognized by SAQA in in Humanities/ Social Sciences/ Social Work/ Public
Management or related field. A minimum of 3-5 years Admin Officer level
experience in Youth Development and mainstreaming programmes. Strong
Events management experience and/or rapid response experience.
Possession of a valid driver’s license. Skills And Competencies: The incumbent
should have knowledge & understanding of national policies and legislation
related to gender, youth, and disability. Experience in policy advocacy and
stakeholder engagement. Demonstrable knowledge and experience in
programmes Targeting Youth, Women, Persons With Disabilities, Older
Persons and the LGBTQIA+ communities, within the context of government
transformation and developmental priorities. Knowledge of legislative and
Policy Framework such as the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa,
Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the National Policy Framework for Women’s
Empowerment and Gender Equality, the Framework for the Empowerment and
Participation of Youth in Human Settlements Delivery, The National Housing
Code and Breaking New Ground (BNG) Policy, Employment Equity Act,
BBBEE, PPPFA, National Skills Development Act, White Paper on the Rights
of Persons with Disabilities, and Treasury regulations. Financial management
skills, strategic capability & leadership, service delivery innovation, willing to
work under changing and difficult circumstances, events management skills,
customer focus & responsiveness, conflict management skills and problem-
solving analysis, accuracy, client-focused strategist. Good verbal and written
communication skills and report writing skills. Willingness to travel and work
extended hours as and when required.
80
DUTIES : Facilitate and implement capacity-building programmes targeting designated
groups of SMMES in line with departmental targets. Coordinate capacity-
building initiatives for designated SMMEs preparing them for economic
opportunities in the public sector. Ensure the development of the participant
lists of stakeholders for the SMMES capacity-building session. Facilitate
beneficiary awareness programs for designated groups (Women, youth,
persons with disabilities). Convene a task team of relevant stakeholders (sister
departments, agencies, and non-governmental organizations) to plan the
implementation of awareness programs including roles and responsibilities.
Build beneficial working relationships with internal and external key
stakeholders. Participate in internal and external forums for designated groups.
Prepare and provide reports, recommendations, and action plans from
engagements with stakeholders. Prepare Reports on advocacy programmes
and respond to Enquiries. Consolidate and prepare monthly, quarterly, and
annual advocacy progress reports. Supervision of the business unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Alinah Mogaswa at 072 313 8052
APPLICATIONS : Please apply online at https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za
POST 33/106 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: GEYODI OUTREACH PROGRAMMES REF NO:
REFS/023339
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as
recognized by SAQA in Humanities, Social Sciences, Social Work, Public
Management or a related field. A minimum of 3-5 years Admin Officer level
experience in Youth, Women, and Persons with Disabilities Development and
mainstreaming programmes. Strong project management, stakeholder liaison,
and community development experience. Sound knowledge of national
policies and legislation on gender, youth, and disability. A valid driver’s licence
and willingness to work extended hours are essential. Skills And
Competencies: Proven event management expertise in planning, coordinating,
and delivering successful programmes; conflict management and problem-
solving skills; excellent verbal and written communication, with strong report
writing and presentation abilities. Possesses strategic leadership skills and the
ability to adapt effectively to changing and challenging circumstances,
including unpredictable situations and extended working hours. Know and
understand the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996 (Chapter 2:
Bill of Rights). The National Housing Code and Breaking New Ground (BNG)
Policy. The National Development Plan (Vision 2030). Broad-Based Black
Economic Empowerment Act, 2003 (Act No. 53 of 2003) and related Codes of
Good Practice. The White Paper on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities
(2016), the National Policy Framework for Women’s Empowerment and
Gender Equality, and the Framework for the Empowerment and Participation
of Youth in Human Settlements delivery.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for coordinating, planning, and enhancing
the execution of commemorative events and outreach programmes, including
Youth Month, Women’s Month, Elderly Month, Persons with Disabilities Month,
and the 16 Days of Activism, in alignment with the GEYODI calendar. This
includes facilitating the development and consolidation of a departmental
commemorative calendar across business units, ensuring events are
impactful, inclusive, and well-coordinated. Build and sustain strategic
partnerships with internal and external stakeholders, secure departmental
visibility at expos and plenary sessions, and ensure exhibitions are
professionally delivered during commemorative months. The incumbent will
also be responsible for preparing minutes, action plans, and reports from
engagements, responding to stakeholder inquiries, and compiling monthly,
quarterly, and annual reports on commemorative activities. Additionally, the
role entails supervising the subunit to ensure effective delivery of all
commemorations and related programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Alinah Mogaswa at 072 313 8052
APPLICATIONS : Please apply online at https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za
81
OFFICE OF THE PREMIER
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 33/107 : HEAD OF DEPARTMENT (HOD): GAUTENG DEPARTMENT OF
EDUCATION REF NO: REFS/ GDE/HOD/2025/01
(3-year performance-based contract, renewable for a further period of 2 years,
dependent on performance)
SALARY : R2 352 642 – R2 650 223 per annum (Level 16), (all-inclusive remuneration
package), plus a 10% non-pensionable allowance applicable to Heads of
Departments.
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant postgraduate qualification (NQF Level 8 in terms of SAQA
standards) in Education, Public Administration, Public Management or relevant
field, and a minimum of ten (10) year’s relevant experience at senior
management level. Key Competencies: Proven ability to operationalize and
ensure compliance with legislation and policy development at provincial and
local level. Knowledge of public sector legislation, the South Africa Schools Act,
Basic Education Laws Amendment (BELA) Act, and other education related
framework. Demonstrable experience in management at an executive level.
Knowledge understanding of government priorities. Insight into Government’s
Outcomes-Based Approach, including performance monitoring and evaluation.
Strategic leadership, change management and project management.
Capabilities should include service delivery innovation, exceptional reporting
skills as well as the ability to communicate eloquently, compliance with the
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and financial regulatory frameworks
underpinning good governance in South Africa. Excellent co-ordination,
communication, networking, negotiation, corporate governance and multi-
tasking skills. Ability to work under pressure and willingness to work long hours.
Willingness to work irregular hours and travel extensively.
DUTIES : Serve as Accounting Officer in the Gauteng Department of Education in
accordance with the provisions of the PFMA; Providing strategic leadership to
the Department; overseeing the development, implementation, and monitoring
of organisational programmes in line with organisational policies; responsibility
for the overall management of education in Gauteng by aligning all
departmental plans with the National Development Plan (NDP), National and
Provincial Government Strategic Objectives, Transformation, Modernisation
and Reindustrialisation [TMR] Programme and GGT 2030. Promote school
safety, infrastructure development, and ICT integration in education, foster
partnerships with communities, SGBs, and other stakeholders to enhance
educational outcomes, to ensure the provision of a sound education
framework, improving equity and universal access to quality education in
Grade R, Primary and Secondary education, Improving Educational
Outcomes, Implementation of the GDE 10 Pillars, Management of School
Infrastructure Programme, Safety and nutrition amongst others. Provide
strategic leadership in the delivery of integrated, sustainable, and efficient
transport and overall management of the Department’s programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Pange Radebe at (066) 315 6970
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be sent through
RecruitmentHOD.Premier@gauteng.gov.za quoting the relevant reference
number to Human Resources Administration. No late applications will be
considered.
NOTE : Applicants should please note the following: The successful candidate will be
required to enter into an employment contract and conclude an annual
performance agreement with the Premier of Gauteng within three (3) months
of commencement of duty. The recommended/short-listed candidates will be
subjected to security clearance. Qualifications will be verified (it is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South
African Qualifications Authority, i.e. SAQA). The incumbent will be required to
disclose his/her financial interest in accordance with the prescribed regulations.
NB. Requirement for all senior management positions: Nyukela Programme:
Pre-entry Certificate to Senior Management Services as endorsed by DPSA
which is an online course, endorsed by the National School of Government
(NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry
into the SMS and the full details can be sourced by the following link
:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme.The
82
successful candidate will be required to provide proof of completion of the NSG
Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme Certificate for
entry into the SMS. Qualifying applicants should submit their application on the,
New Application Form (Z83), found on www.dpsa.gov.za, Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each application for employment form must be fully completed,
duly signed and initialled by the applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to
disqualification of the application during the selection process. The Z83 should
be accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed current and previous
work experience including dates). The communication from the HR of the
Department regarding the requirements of the certified qualifications, ID,
Drivers licence etc. will be limited to shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only
shortlisted candidates for the post will be required to submit certified
documents on or before the day of the interview following the communication
from HR. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. Due to the large number of applications we envisage to
receive, applications will not be acknowledged. Should you not be contacted
within 3 months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful. The Gauteng Office of the Premier reserves the
right to cancel the filling/ not to fill any vacancy that was advertised during any
stage of the recruitment process.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/108 : HEAD OF DEPARTMENT (HOD): GAUTENG DEPARTMENT OF SPORT,
ARTS, CULTURE AND RECREATION REF NO: REFS/ SCRA/2025/02
(3-year performance-based contract, renewable for a further period of 2 years,
dependent on performance)
SALARY : R1 813 182 – R2 042 535 per annum (Level 15), (all-inclusive remuneration
package), plus a 10% non-pensionable allowance applicable to Heads of
Departments.
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant post graduate qualification (NQF Level 8 in terms of SAQA
standards) in Public Administration, Public Management, Sports Management,
Arts and Culture, Heritage Studies, relevant related field, and a minimum of ten
(10) year’s relevant experience at senior management level. Key
Competencies: Proven ability to operationalize and ensure compliance with
legislation and policy development at provincial and local level. Demonstrable
experience in management at an executive level, with a multi-billion-rand
budget as well as a good understanding of and competency in Financial
Management Systems including cost containment, budgeting, expenditure
control, revenue collection and revenue generation. Knowledge and
understanding of government priorities. Insight into Government’s Outcomes
Based Approach, including performance monitoring and evaluation. Strategic
leadership change management and project management. Capabilities should
include service delivery innovation, exceptional reporting skills as well as the
ability to communicate eloquently, compliance with the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) and financial regulatory frameworks underpinning
good governance in South Africa. Excellent co-ordination, communication,
networking, negotiation, corporate governance and multi-tasking skills. Ability
to work under pressure and willingness to work long and irregular hours and
travel extensively.
DUTIES : Serve as Accounting Officer of the Gauteng Department Sport, Arts, Culture
and Recreation. Lead budget planning, financial oversight, and ensure full
compliance with the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Provide
strategic leadership in the delivery of integrated, sustainable, efficient and
overall management of the Department’s programmes by aligning all
departmental plans with the National Development Plan (NDP), National and
Provincial Government Strategic Objectives, Transformation, Modernisation
and Reindustrialisation (TMR) Programme and GGT 2030. Foster partnerships
with stakeholders including municipalities, civil society, cultural institutions, and
the private sector. Ensure sound governance, ethical leadership, and effective
performance management within the department. Strengthen
intergovernmental relations and stakeholder engagement, including with
municipalities, SOEs, and the private sector. Drive innovation in transport
infrastructure. Over-seeing the development, implementation and monitoring
83
of Departmental programmes and projects; structures, systems and processes
to deliver on mandates and contributing to the broader strategic environment
of Gauteng.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Pange Radebe at (066) 315 6970
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be sent through
RecruitmentHOD.Premier@gauteng.gov.za quoting the relevant reference
number to Human Resources Administration. No late applications will be
considered.
NOTE : Applicants should please note the following: The successful candidate will be
required to enter into an employment contract and conclude an annual
performance agreement with the Premier of Gauteng within three (3) months
of commencement of duty. The recommended/short-listed candidates will be
subjected to security clearance. Qualifications will be verified (it is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South
African Qualifications Authority, i.e. SAQA). The incumbent will be required to
disclose his/her financial interest in accordance with the prescribed regulations.
NB. Requirement for all senior management positions: Nyukela Programme:
Pre-entry Certificate to Senior Management Services as endorsed by DPSA
which is an online course, endorsed by the National School of Government
(NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry
into the SMS and the full details can be sourced by the following link
:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme.The
successful candidate will be required to provide proof of completion of the NSG
Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme Certificate for
entry into the SMS. Qualifying applicants should submit their application on the,
New Application Form (Z83), found on www.dpsa.gov.za, Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each application for employment form must be fully completed,
duly signed and initialled by the applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to
disqualification of the application during the selection process. The Z83 should
be accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed current and previous
work experience including dates). The communication from the HR of the
Department regarding the requirements of the certified qualifications, ID,
Drivers licence etc. will be limited to shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only
shortlisted candidates for the post will be required to submit certified
documents on or before the day of the interview following the communication
from HR. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. Due to the large number of applications, we envisage to
receive, applications will not be acknowledged. Should you not be contacted
within 3 months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful. The Gauteng Office of the Premier reserves the
right to cancel the filling/ not to fill any vacancy that was advertised during any
stage of the recruitment process.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/109 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/023039
Branch: Corporate Management
SALARY : R1 494 900 - R1 787 328 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in Public
Administration Management, Strategic Management, Human Resource
Management, any related fields and the Nyukela Certificate for entry into
Senior Management Service (SMS) from the National School of Government.
A higher qualification of NQF Level 8, will be an added advantage. 5 years of
experience at a senior managerial level in a corporate services environment.
Competencies: Demonstrable advanced strategic leadership, planning and
organizing skills; analytical, conceptual, and writing skills; strong leadership,
people management, conflict resolution and interpersonal skills. Good
programme and project management; stakeholder management;
communication, public speaking and presentation skills. Excellent financial,
human resource management skills. Customer management, Problem solving,
Analytical, Good Communication and Policy development, analysis and
implementation skills. Ability to work under pressure, in a team and
84
independently as well as cope with a high workload. S/he must be assertive,
innovative and creative. Excellent co-ordination, networking, negotiation,
presentation and multi-tasking skills. Ability to work under pressure and
willingness to work long hours.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the implementation of
Strategic Corporate Services. The role will include the following functions:
Oversee Corporate Services functions such as Human Resources
Management, which includes coordination and facilitation of organisational
development. Oversee sound Labour relations, Oversee Employee Health and
Wellness and ensure compliance with occupational health and safety
standards. Oversee workplace transformation and Compliance with the
regulatory frameworks. Oversee Training and Development and Performance
Management Oversee Information and Communication Technology such as
knowledge management systems, IT Infrastructure and IT Technical Support.
Oversee the provision of internal communication and events management
services. Oversee Security services and Work Environment management such
as implementation of minimum information security standards and vetting of
employees, provide security technical support services, and management of
Office Support and Auxiliary Services. Provide high level management advice
to Executive Management to ensure sound decision making and forward
planning. Monitor the development and review of policies and strategies.
Ensure implementation of Annual Performance Plan. Manage and monitor
Budget, Human Resources and Assets of the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRES : Ms Sylvia Mtshali Tel No: (011) 355 6280
APPLICATIONS : Qualifying applicants should submit their applications online on the GPG
Professional Job Centre website, (www.gautengonline.gov.za) and on
Recruitment.Premier@gauteng.gov.za
NOTE : It is the department’s intention to promote equity by achieving all numeric
targets as contained in the Department`s Employment Equity Plan by targeting
the required race/gender for appointment. To promote equity, females and
males of all races are encouraged to apply. The completed signed new Z83
must be accompanied by a detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV) only and at least
three (3) contactable referees quoting the relevant reference number. Failure
to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not being
considered. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Gauteng Office of the
Premier reserve the right to utilise practical exercise/test for non-SMS positions
and during the recruitment process (candidates who are shortlisted will be
informed accordingly) to determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s).
Gauteng Office of the Premier (OTP) reserves the right to cancel the filling /
not fill a vacancy that was advertised during any stage of the recruitment
process. We thank all applicants for their interest. All shortlisted candidates for
SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant
technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be communicated by
the Department. Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection
committee will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment. The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. The successful candidate will be required to conclude an
annual perform agreement within three (3) months upon commencement of
duty. The appointment of the successful candidate is subject to the issuing of
a positive security clearance at the level of Top Secret by the State Security
Agency. The incumbent will be required to disclose her/his financial interest in
accordance with the prescribed regulations. NB. Requirement for all SMS posts
is the Nyukela Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to Senior Management
Services as endorsed by DPSA which is an online course, offered by the
National School of Government (NSG). The course is available at the NSG
under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the full details can be
sourced by the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-
pre-entry-programme Prospective candidates will not be employed without this
certificate. Note: The posts are advertised due to corrections on the duties.
85
Applicants who applied earlier will be considered, need not to reapply. The role
of Chief Negotiator has been removed. Update: Duties now include, Oversee
Training and Development and Performance Management.
CLOSING DATE : 30 September 2025
POST 33/110 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: TRANSVERSAL HUMAN RESOURCE AND
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: REFS/023040
Branch: Institutional Development Support & Integrity Management
SALARY : R1 494 900 - R1 787 328 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF Level 7 qualification in Human Resource Management or Social
Sciences or Public Administration, Public / Business Management or Industrial
Psychology and Nyukela Certificate for entry into Senior Management Service
(SMS) from the National School of Government. A higher qualification of NQF
Level 8, will be an added advantage. 5 years of experience at a senior
managerial level and experience in the development and review of strategies,
policies and plans in the HR environment. Advanced knowledge of strategy
development and monitoring, Policy development and review processes.
Ensure implementation of transversal HRM&D policies within GPG.
Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership; analytical, conceptual, and
writing skills; leadership skills, people management and empowerment,
problem solving and interpersonal skills; good programme and project
management; good human resource management. Client orientation and
customer focus, Problem solving, Communication skills. Competency in policy
development. Knowledge of legislative framework and government
procedures. Knowledge of PFMA, PSA, PSR, SCM. Ability to work under
pressure and willingness to work long hours.
DUTIES : Oversee implementation of transversal Strategic HR Planning and Reporting.
Oversee implementation of Human Resource Development and Performance
management. Serve as Chief Negotiator for all Gauteng Provincial
Government Departments. Oversee the coordination and the facilitation of
collective bargaining, Oversee transversal discipline and dispute resolutions.
Manage and facilitate the development of strategic plans and annual
performance plans. Oversee Transversal Human Resource Admin services
such as Recruitment and Selection & Performance Management of HoDs and
Human Resources Delegations. Oversee Organisational Development
Oversight. Oversee coordination and Monitoring of Change and Diversity
Management. Oversee Organisational Development Implementation. Oversee
and Coordinate Transversal Employee Health and Wellness programmes.
Monitor the implementation of transversal framework, policies and plans.
Coordinate Provincial HRM & D Forum. Oversee the facilitation, Coordination
and monitoring of public service capacity building. Manage the Budget, Human
Resources and Assets of the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRES : Ms Sylvia Mtshali Tel No: (011) 355 6280, Tel No: (011) 355 6280
APPLICATIONS : Qualifying applicants should submit their applications online on the GPG
Professional Job Centre website, (www.gautengonline.gov.za) and on
Recruitment.Premier@gauteng.gov.za
NOTE : It is the department’s intention to promote equity by achieving all numeric
targets as contained in the Department`s Employment Equity Plan by targeting
the required race/gender for appointment. To promote equity, females and
males of all races are encouraged to apply. The completed signed new Z83
must be accompanied by a detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV) only and at least
three (3) contactable referees quoting the relevant reference number. Failure
to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not being
considered. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Gauteng Office of the
Premier reserve the right to utilise practical exercise/test for non-SMS positions
and during the recruitment process (candidates who are shortlisted will be
informed accordingly) to determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s).
Gauteng Office of the Premier (OoP) reserves the right to cancel the filling / not
86
fill a vacancy that was advertised during any stage of the recruitment process.
We thank all applicants for their interest. All shortlisted candidates for SMS
posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant
technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be communicated by
the Department. Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection
committee will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment. The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. The successful candidate will be required to conclude an
annual perform agreement within three (3) months upon commencement of
duty. The appointment of the successful candidate is subject to the issuing of
a positive security clearance at the level of Top Secret by the State Security
Agency. The incumbent will be required to disclose her/his financial interest in
accordance with the prescribed regulations. NB. Requirement for all SMS posts
is the Nyukela Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to Senior Management
Services as endorsed by DPSA which is an online course, offered by the
National School of Government (NSG). The course is available at the NSG
under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the full details can be
sourced by the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-
pre-entry-programme Prospective candidates will not be employed without this
certificate. Note: The posts are advertised due to corrections on the duties.
Applicants who applied earlier will be considered, need not to reapply. Duties
now include the role of Chief Negotiator for all Gauteng Provincial
Departments.
CLOSING DATE : 30 September 2025
87
ANNEXURE L
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT
The Provincial Administration of KwaZulu-Natal is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the KZN online e-
Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applicants may also
visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres (DOACs) where our
friendly staff will assist you with applying for jobs on the KZN online e-
Recruitment system or receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the
list of Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Please note that applicants should only use
one of the following methods when applying for a post: either through the online
e-Recruitment system or submit a hardcopy application as directed. Forward
your application, quoting the relevant reference number to: Recruitment &
Selection Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag
X9043, Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applications may alternatively be hand-
delivered to the Office of the Department of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima
Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street, Pietermaritzburg.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025 (at 16h00). Applications received after the closing date and
time will not be considered.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the NEW Application for Employment Form,
Z83 (obtainable on the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies). The Z83 form
must be completed in terms of DPSA circular 03 of 2025. The completed and
signed Z83 must be accompanied by a detailed CV. Dates of starting and
leaving employment must be given as DD/MM/YYYY. Kindly take note that only
shortlisted candidates will be required to provide certified copies of required
documents on or before the date of the interviews following communication
from Human Resources. Failure to comply with these instructions will lead to
applications being disqualified. Should an applicant wish to apply for more than
one post, separate applications must be submitted for each post applied for.
Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders must provide a copy of
their Permanent Residence Permits if shortlisted for an interview. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and to provide proof of such if
shortlisted for an interview. Under no circumstances will faxed applications be
accepted. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged due to the volume
of applications, and should you not receive an invitation to attend an interview
within three (3) months of the closing date applicants should assume that their
application was unsuccessful. Please note that where experience is a
requirement for the post, the successful candidate will be required to submit
documentary proof of such work experience prior to assuming duty. A
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification) will be conducted prior to
employment. Prior to appointment being made to an SMS post, the appointee
must have completed the pre-entry certificate and must be in possession of
such prior to taking up the post. The Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme, which is a public service specific training programme applicable
to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is to ensure that potential SMS
members have a background on processes and procedures linked to the SMS.
The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme is 120 notional hours. Full
details may be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme/. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which
will be communicated by the department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive
on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. It will be expected of
candidates to be available for selection interviews on a date, time and place as
determined by the Department. The Department of Transport reserves the
right not to fill the advertised post(s) at any stage of the recruitment process.
88
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 33/111 : DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: 353/2025
Kindly note that this is a re-advertisement. Applicants who applied previously
and who still wish to be considered are at liberty to re-apply.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all Inclusive, flexible remuneration package)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in a Finance or Accounting field (NQF Level 7)
as recognised by SAQA; plus A minimum of 5 years’ experience at a
middle/senior managerial level in a financial management environment; plus A
valid driver’s licence (minimum Code B). Knowledge, Skills and Competencies
Required: Extensive knowledge of the financial prescripts of the Public Finance
Management Act and Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of advanced financial
and analytical methodologies. Knowledge of the financial management
information systems in the province. Knowledge of the Labour Relations Act.
Knowledge of computer-based information systems. Project management
skills – provide financial information for planning and decision making by
studying past, present and anticipated financial conditions and recommending
courses of action. Communication skills – prepare reports required in terms of
Public Service statutory framework by collecting, formatting and explaining
information. Effective communication, negotiation and influencing skills.
Functional ability – maintaining accounting controls, reconciling financial
discrepancies, preparing financial reports, maintaining financial security,
guiding staff, answering accounting procedure inquiries. Skills in coaching and
developing people – ensure that staff are trained in financial practices and
procedures. Improve senior management financial knowledge. Computer
literacy. The ideal candidate should be a quick thinker – provide financial
information for planning and decision making and recommending courses of
action where tight deadlines apply. He / she should also be an innovative
thinker, problem solver and a team player – contribute to team effort by
accomplishing results as needed.
DUTIES : Manage departmental financial system and user configuration. Implement and
maintain system policies from National and Provincial Treasury. Ensure
improved Financial Accounting, i.e. develop, implement, maintain and
coordinate accounting policies, reports, procedures and practices compliant
with Generally Recognised Accounting Practices and in line with Modified Cash
Standards. Ensure efficient management of departmental Bookkeeping and
Accounting services and reporting thereof. Produce departmental financial
reports, Annual Financial Statements and Interim Financial Statements.
Facilitate improved financial management, i.e. develop, implement and co-
ordinate accounting policies, procedures and practices compliant with
generally recognised accounting practices. Co-ordinate the compilation of risk
assessment and fraud prevention plans and the carrying out of compliance
inspections to promote accountable financial administration.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Nkosi Tel No: (033) 355 8792
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr C McDougall
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
OTHER POSTS
POST 33/112 : CHIEF ENGINEER GRADE A REF NO: DOT 354/2025
Policy & Planning Directorate
SALARY : R1 266 450 per annum, (OSD), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An engineering degree (B Eng / BSC (ENG); plus 6 (Six) years post
qualification engineering experience; plus Compulsory Registration with
Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineer; plus
A valid driver’s licence (minimum code B). Knowledge, Skills and
89
Competencies Required: Programme and Project management knowledge.
Engineering, Legal and operational compliance knowledge. Engineering
operational communication knowledge. Process knowledge and skills.
Maintenance skills and knowledge. Mobile equipment operating skills.
Engineering design and analysis knowledge. Knowledge of research and
development. Knowledge of computer-aided engineering applications.
Knowledge of creating high performance culture. Knowledge of technical
consulting. Knowledge of engineering and professional judgement. Strategic
capability and leadership skills. Problem solving and analysis skills. Decision-
making, team leadership, creativity and financial management skills. Customer
focus and responsiveness skills. Communication, planning and organizing
skills. Computer literacy. Conflict management, people management and
negotiation skills. Change management skills. Knowledge of traffic studies.
Knowledge of Highway capacity. Strong traffic engineering competency in
relation developments and road improvements.
DUTIES : Engineering design and analysis effectiveness. Maintain engineering
operational effectiveness. Governance. Financial Management. People
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Ntombela Tel No: (033) 355 8988
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X 9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr C McDougall
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 33/113 : ENGINEER PRODUCTION GRADE A (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R879 342 per annum, (inclusive flexible remuneration package), (OSD), (salary
depending on experience)
CENTRE : Regional Office, Durban
Road Pavement & Traffic Engineering, Durban Ref No: DOT 355/2025
REQUIREMENTS : An engineering degree (BEng / BSc (Eng) - Civil; plus 3 (Three) years post
qualification engineering experience; plus Compulsory Registration with
Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineer; plus,
A valid driver’s licence (minimum code B). Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies Required: Programme and Project management knowledge.
Engineering design and analysis knowledge. Contract management.
Expropriation, access control, and roadside development services.
Stakeholder engagement. Maintenance management systems and project
implementation. Knowledge of research and development. Knowledge of
computer-aided engineering applications. Knowledge of legal compliance.
Knowledge of technical report writing and networking. Knowledge of creating
high performance culture. Knowledge of engineering and professional
judgement. Decision-making, team leadership and analytical skills. Creativity,
self-management and financial management skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness skills. Communication, planning and organizing skills.
Computer Literacy. Conflict and people management skills. Problem solving
and analysis skills. Change management and innovation skills. The ideal
candidate should be honest, decisive, analytical and reliable.
DUTIES : Design new systems to solve practical engineering challenges, improve
efficiency and enhance safety. Manage regional capital projects. Human capital
development. Office administration and budget planning. Research and
development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MBB Gumede Tel No: (031) 700 2222
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X 9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr C McDougall
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these
positions.
90
POST 33/114 : CONTROL PROVINCIAL INSPECTOR REF NO: DOT 356/2025
Kindly note that this is a re-advertisement. Applicants who applied previously
and who still wish to be considered are at liberty to re-apply.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Road Traffic Inspectorate
Road Traffic Law Administration: Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House,
Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification (3 year Diploma/Degree in a Traffic /
Management / Law field – NQF 6 or higher); plus A Basic Traffic Officer’s
Diploma; plus Registered as a Traffic Officer; plus 3-5 years’ management
experience in a Traffic Law Enforcement field; plus 7-10 years’ working
experience in a Traffic Law Enforcement field; plus A valid driving licence
(minimum code B); plus No criminal record. Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies Required: Knowledge on how to manage the implementation of
Public Transport and Traffic Law Enforcement policies and regulations.
Knowledge of driver fitness inspections. Knowledge of vehicle fitness
inspections. Knowledge on the completion of Law Enforcement documents.
Knowledge of operator fitness inspections. Knowledge of investigations.
Working knowledge of applicable legislations – Public transport and traffic
environment. Records, resource and customer relationship management skills.
Performance, finance and conflict management skills. Projects, time and self-
management skills. Risk, change and public information management skills.
Planning, organising and people management skills. Service delivery,
communication and decision-making skills. Results and quality management
skills. Problem solving, report writing and workplace relations skills. Conflict
management, monitoring and evaluation and management skills.
Results/quality management skills. Innovation/continuous improvement skills.
Analytical, negotiation and innovative skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provide effective and efficient leadership: Co-ordinate stakeholder relations
with other state departments and Law Enforcement Agencies (LEAs). Provide
strategic guidance and leadership to law enforcement officials. Evaluate the
activities of the Regional/District Operational plans to ensure strategic
alignment with the Strategic plan, budget statements and national and
provincial strategies: Co-ordinate the development of standardised operational
plans. Monitor and evaluate operational performance of the region to ensure
continuous alignment and development. Develop and maintain corrective
action on identified problem areas. Research and capture national and
international traffic law enforcement best practice. Promote a holistic integrated
management approach in terms of support and other functions. Create and
facilitate an enabling environment between provincial and local government in
respect of traffic law enforcement and ensure alignment across these spheres.
Co-ordinate the collection and analysis of regional law enforcement statistics,
conduct research, formulate policy and develop new strategies and models to
improve service delivery: Ensure that environmental analysis of each centre is
updated on an annual basis and reviewed on a quarterly basis. Develop a
monitoring mechanism to co-ordinate law enforcement operations and
statistics. Develop provincial policies in terms of operations, public transport,
legislation, equipment and prosecutions. Provide strategic leadership and
mentoring to regional/district role-players regarding strategies, developments
and trends. Manage and co-ordinate human resource processes in the
region/district. Manage and co-ordinate the budget process and utilisation of
facilities, vehicles and equipment of the region/district: Monitor the budget of
the region to prevent over/under spending on a monthly basis. Monitor the
procurement and utilisation of equipment of and services provided to the
centre. Ensure appropriate use of all facilities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr VK Chetty Tel No: (033) 355 8880
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
91
POST 33/115 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY &
EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS REF NO: DOT 357/2025
Human Resource Administration Directorate
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Safety Management, Social Work or
Psychology (NQF Level 6 or 7); plus, Registration with the relevant
Professional Body; plus, A minimum of 3 years junior management experience
in an Occupational Health and Safety environment and Employee Health and
Wellness; plus, A valid driver’s licence (minimum code B). Knowledge, Skills
and Competencies Required: Extensive knowledge of the Occupational Health
and Safety Act, Regulations, SABS and specifications. Knowledge of the South
African Constitution. Knowledge of the Labour Relations Act. Knowledge of
building construction. Knowledge of technical, mechanical and administrative
procedures. Knowledge of legislation of procedures. Knowledge of
construction regulations. Knowledge of Public Service Act and Regulations.
Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury
Regulations. Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act No. 85 of 1993,
Occupational Health and Safety Regulations and Hazardous Substance Act
No. 55 of 1998. Knowledge of Fire Protection and Environmental Act.
Knowledge of National Building Regulations Act No. 15 of 1973 as amended.
Knowledge of Compensation for Injuries and Diseases Act of 1993. Knowledge
of Disaster Management Act No. 57 of 2000 as amended. Knowledge of Public
Sector policies, procedures and legislation. Knowledge of Access to
Information Act and Public Service Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of Basic
Conditions for Employment Act No. 55 of 1998 and National Treasury Guideline
documents. Computer literacy. Good verbal and written communication skills.
Good interpersonal relations skills. Problem solving skills. Policy development
and analysis skills. Research, organising, facilitation and planning skills.
Project and Basic Financial Management skills. Management skills. Team
development and change management skills. Influencing and leadership skills.
Decision making skills. Skills in the use of training aids. Report writing skills.
Analytical and innovative skills. Firefighting and first aid skills. Self-disciplined
and able to work under pressure with minimum supervision. Able to network
with all levels of management, staff and outside clients. The ideal candidate
should be dedicated, believe in transformation, be loyal, accurate, innovative,
independent, time frame driven, meticulous, maintain confidentiality, be
proactive, honest and have integrity. He/she should be reliable, patient, show
commitment and professionalism, be culturally sensitive, a team player, show
perseverance and be punctual.
DUTIES : Manage the promotion of Employee Health and Wellness Programme within
the Department. Manage the establishment and maintenance of occupational
health and safety structures. Monitor the implementation of the Safety, Health
and Environmental Quality (SHERQ) management programme. Ensure the
implementation of Departmental HIV and AIDS and TB management
programme. Develop and implement policies, strategies and procedures
pertaining to Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) and Employee Health and
Wellness. Manage resources of the Sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Zondi Tel No: (033) 355 8653
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr C McDougall
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 33/116 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EXECUTIVE SUPPORT REF NO: DOT 358/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A undergraduate qualification majoring in Public Administration or Office
Management field (NQF Level 7 or higher); plus a minimum of 3 years’ junior
92
management experience; plus a valid driver’s licence (code B or higher).
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required: Knowledge of Republic of
South African Constitution. Knowledge of Public Service Act. Knowledge of
Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act.
Knowledge of Labour Relations Act. Knowledge of policy analysis and
development. Knowledge of Organization behaviour analysis. Knowledge of
Ministerial Handbook. Knowledge of Provincial Growth and Development Plan.
Knowledge of Ministry operations. Broad knowledge and understanding of the
functional areas covered by the executive authority’s portfolio. Analytical
thinking skills. Communication skills. Presentation and facilitation skills.
Interpersonal relation skills. Research skills. Report writing skills. Policy
formulation skills. Conflict management skills. Strategic planning skills.
Problem solving skills. Project management. Computer literacy. The ideal
candidate should be loyal, accuracy, innovative and be independent. He/ she
should be strictly confidential, be proactive and honest, he/ she should also
show integrity, be reliable and be patience. The ideal candidate must also be a
team player, must show perseverance, be punctual, show professionalism and
must also be able to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Co- ordinate executive administrative support. Manage secretariat services.
Provide document management support services. Manage the development
and implementation of policies. Manage the resources of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Ngubo Tel No: (033) 355 8808
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 33/117 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MECHANICAL REF NO: DOT 359/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Regional Office, Durban
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/ National Certificate (Vocational) NQF level 4; plus, An
appropriate Bachelor’s Degree or National Diploma in (T/S/N-Stream) in the
Mechanical Engineering field (NQF Level 6 or higher); plus A minimum of 3
years’ junior management experience in the field of preventative maintenance
and repairs of earthmoving equipment plant; plus A valid driver’s licence
(minimum code C1). Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required: In depth
knowledge of maintenance and repairs management of plant. A sound
knowledge of Plant fleet management. A wide knowledge of oil analysis
programme. Knowledge of Road Traffic and Transportation legislation,
Dangerous Goods Regulations, Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS),
Environmental Conservation Act. Sound knowledge of Transport regulations
(eNATIS). Sound knowledge of administrative processes. Sound knowledge of
procurement procedures. Sound knowledge of delegation of authority. Sound
knowledge of disciplinary procedures/Labour Relations. Sound knowledge of
EPMDS procedures. Sound knowledge of Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA) and Practice Notes. Knowledge and understanding of Public Service
legislation such as Labour Relations Act, Skills Development Act, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act and Employment Equity Act. Literacy and
numeric skills. Driving skills (certificate of competency). Operating equipment
skills. Basic language skills. Computer literacy (MS Windows based
programmes and PJC computer programme). Project and Financial
Management skills. Training and mentorship skills. First Aid skills to attend to
minor injuries. Ability to interpret and apply policies. Analytical, innovative,
negotiating and problem - solving skills. Accurate diagnosis of defects.
Accurate interpretation of oil analysis returns. Management and leadership
skills. Planning and organizing skills. Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Manage maintenance and repairs of plant and vehicles. Develop business plan
and manage expenditure performance. Manage human resources in terms of
prescribed policies. Maintain compliance of OHS and Environmental Act at
work. Develop and maintain sound relationships with all stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr EM Sithole Tel No: (031) 700 2222
93
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr C McDougall
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 33/118 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN GRADE A REF NO: DOT 360/2025
SALARY : R551 493 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Technical Services Regional Office, Empangeni
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Engineering or related field (NQF Level 6 or
higher); plus A minimum of 3 years junior management experience in an
Engineering environment; plus Compulsory registration with ECSA as an
Engineering Technician; plus A valid driver’s licence (minimum Code B).
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required: Knowledge of Project
Management. Knowledge of Technical Design and Analysis. Knowledge of
Research and Development. Knowledge of Computer-aided engineering
applications. Knowledge of Legal compliance. Knowledge of Technical report
writing. Knowledge of Technical consulting. Problem solving and analysis skills.
Decision making skills. Teamwork skills. Creativity skills. Financial
management skills. Customer focus and responsiveness skills.
Communication skills (written & verbal). Computer literacy. Planning and
organising skills. People management skills. Proven and well developed
interpersonal and communication skills (both written and verbal). The ideal
candidate should demonstrate leadership qualities, time management and be
proactive. He/ she must be creative, innovative, honest, visionary, teamwork
orientated, maintain confidentiality, have sound interpersonal relations, be
assertive, analytical thinker, receptive to ideas and possess leadership
qualities.
DUTIES : Manage Technical services. Manage Administrative and related functions.
Research and develop continuous professional developments to keep up with
new technologies and procedures. Manage, supervise and control technical
and related personnel and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TK Dingiswayo Tel No: (035) 562 0262
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X 9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 33/119 : SENIOR SAFETY OFFICER: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY REF
NO: DOT 361/2025
Human Resource Administration Directorate
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Safety Management (NQF Level 6); plus A
minimum of 3 years’ experience in an Occupational Health and Safety
environment; plus A valid driver’s licence (minimum code B). Knowledge, Skills
and Competencies Required: Extensive knowledge of the Occupational Health
and Safety Act, Regulations, SABS and specifications. Knowledge of the South
African Constitution. Sound knowledge of fire protection. Knowledge of the,
Labour Relations Act. Knowledge of building construction. Knowledge of
technical, mechanical and administrative procedures. Knowledge of legislation
of procedures. Knowledge of construction regulations. Knowledge of Public
Service Act and Regulations. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA) and Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of Occupational Health and
Safety Act No. 85 of 1993, Occupational Health and Safety Regulations and
Hazardous Substance Act No. 55 of 1998. Knowledge of Fire Protection and
94
Environmental Act. Knowledge of National Building Regulations Act No. 15 of
1973 as amended. Knowledge of Compensation for Injuries and Diseases Act
of 1993. Knowledge of Disaster Management Act No. 57 of 2000 as amended.
Knowledge of Public Sector policies, procedures and legislation. Knowledge of
Access to Information Act and Public Service Regulatory Framework.
Knowledge of Basic Conditions for Employment Act No. 55 of 1998 and
National Treasury Guideline documents. Computer literacy. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Good interpersonal relations skills. Problem
solving skills. Policy development and analysis skills. Research, organising,
facilitation and planning skills. Project and Basic Financial Management skills.
Management skills. Team development and change management skills.
Influencing and leadership skills. Decision making skills. Skills in the use of
training aids. Report writing skills. Analytical and innovative skills. Firefighting
and first aid skills. Self-disciplined and able to work under pressure with
minimum supervision. Able to network with all levels of management, staff and
outside clients. The ideal candidate should be dedicated, believe in
transformation, be loyal, accurate, innovative, independent, time frame driven,
meticulous, maintain confidentiality, be proactive, honest and have integrity.
He/she should be reliable, patient, show commitment and professionalism, be
culturally sensitive, a team player, show perseverance and be punctual.
DUTIES : Implement monitoring protocols and corrective action investigations. Co-
ordinate the establishment and maintenance of occupational health and safety
structures. Provide OHS training and awareness. Provide advice, guidance
and input to policies, strategies and procedures pertaining to Occupational
Health and Safety (OHS). Supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Zondi Tel No: (033) 355 8653
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 33/120 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: IT PROJECT MANAGEMENT REF NO: DOT
362/2025
Information Technology Management Services
Kindly note that this is a re-advertisement. Applicants who applied previously
and who still wish to be considered are at liberty to re-apply.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in an IT field (NQF Level 6); plus A minimum of
3 years’ supervisory experience in an Information Technology environment;
plus A valid driver’s licence (minimum code B). Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies Required: Knowledge of Republic of South Africa Constitution.
Knowledge of Public Service Act and Public Service Regulations. Knowledge
of Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Knowledge of Human Resource
prescripts. Knowledge of Employee Performance and Management System.
Knowledge of Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Knowledge of Labour
Relations Act. Knowledge of Active Directory and MS Exchange. Knowledge of
Microsoft Windows operating system. Knowledge of Project Management.
Knowledge of Information Technology policies and standards. Knowledge of
Contract Management. Knowledge of Antivirus. Knowledge of Virtual
environment. Knowledge of Server Infrastructure Management. Knowledge of
Information Technology Audit and Governance. Knowledge of Procurement
processes. Knowledge of computer system analysis. Knowledge of system
administration. Knowledge on compilation of management reports. Knowledge
of |Promotion of Access to information Act. Knowledge of SITA Act. Knowledge
of computer software and hardware. Knowledge of computer operating system.
Knowledge of National Intelligence Agency IT guidelines. Knowledge of
Occupational Health and Safety Act. Knowledge of Promotion of Equality and
Prevention of Unfair Discrimination. Knowledge of any other relevant Acts/
legislative Mandates. Problem solving skills. Interpersonal relations and
training skills. Strategic planning, budgeting and facilitation skills. Language
95
and listening and presentation skills. Analytical thinking and interpersonal
relations skills. Organising, research, analytical and leadership skills. Time
management and report writing management skills. Good communication
(verbal and written) skills. Conflict and change management skills. Self-
discipline. Project, people and relationship management skills. Decision
making skills. The ideal candidate should have the ability to work under
pressure independently be willing to learn new technologies and have the
ability to communicate at all levels. He/she must be creative, a team player,
trustworthy, assertive hard working self-motivated, innovative, time frame
driven, meticulous, maintain confidentiality, be proactive, honest, have integrity,
be reliable, patient, show commitment, be professional, culturally sensitive,
have perseverance and be punctual.
DUTIES : Facilitate the development and implementation of digital strategy project plan
and schedule. Monitor project progress to ensure that it is progressing as
planned. Ensure project management administration. Manage the resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Ndamane Tel No: (033) 355 8834
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 33/121 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: DOT 363/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Road Traffic Inspectorate, Pinetown
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/ National Certificate (Vocational) NQF Level 4; plus A
minimum of 3 years clerical/ administration experience; plus A valid driver’s
licence (minimum code B). Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required:
Knowledge of Legislation, processes, procedures, PFMA, Road Traffic Act 93/
1996 relating to environment. Knowledge of Departmental reporting structures
and administrative procedures. Knowledge of e-Natis, Public Service Code of
conduct. Knowledge of Archiving, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Labour
Relations Act, and EPMDS. Knowledge of Traffic Law Administration and traffic
development processes. Knowledge of Trafman. Computer Literacy.
Interpersonal skills. Customer relations skills. Resource Management skills.
Problem solving skills. Records Management skills. Good verbal and written
communication skills. The ideal candidate must be reliable, friendly, honest,
have integrity and be polite.
DUTIES : Supervision of general clerical support services. Supervision of registry
services. Supervision of personnel administration. Supervision of financial
administration. Provide an effective office service to the Pinetown Testing
centre as well as compile returns and statistics of licensing drivers,
enforcement activities and submit returns iro stationery, orders and equipment.
Participate in service delivery programmes and support the goals of service
delivery and the priorities of the Department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr VK Chetty Tel No: (033) 355 8880
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X 9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 33/122 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Provincial Regulatory Entity:
Ugu District Ref No: DOT 364/2025 (X1 Post)
Umkhanyakude District Ref No: DOT 365/2025 (X1 Post)
96
Ethekwini Metro Ref No: DOT 366/2025 (X1 Post)
King Cetshwayo District Ref No: DOT 367/2025 (X1 Post)
Ilembe District Ref No: DOT 368/2025 (X1 Post)
Uthukela District Ref No: DOT 369/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate / National Certificate (Vocational) NQF Level 4; plus A
minimum of 3-5 years’ experience required. Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies Required: Knowledge of Public Service Act. Knowledge of E-
Natis Systems. Knowledge of National Land Transport Act (NLTA). Knowledge
of National Public Transport Regulator (NPTR). Knowledge of South African
Constitution, Public Service Regulations and PFMA. Knowledge of Batho Pele
Principles. Computer Literacy. Organisational and Planning skills. Good
communication skills – verbal and written. Interpersonal skills. Customer Care
skills. The ideal candidate should have ethical behaviour (Honesty and
Loyalty), be responsible, punctual, conscientious, flexible, receptive to
suggestions and ideas, be a team player, be accurate, be neat and tidy and
comply with the Code of Conduct.
DUTIES : Provide licensing, permit and registration services (service desk / bulk
application). Provide back office administrative services. Provide customer
care support services. Provide financial administration support services in the
component. Supervise human resources / staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Makhathini Tel No: (033) 355 0471
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X 9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these
positions.
POST 33/123 : DESKTOP PUBLISHER REF NO: DOT 370/2025
Communications Support Directorate
Kindly note that this is a re-advertisement. Applicants who applied previously
and who still wish to be considered are at liberty to re-apply.
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate / National Certificate (Vocational) NQF Level 4); plus A
minimum of 1 year experience in the Design, printing and publishing field; plus
A valid driver’s licence (minimum code B). Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies Required: Knowledge of Apple Mac computers and software.
Knowledge of Desktop Publishing and Graphic Design. Knowledge of Microsoft
package. Knowledge of Protection of personal Information Act. Knowledge of
Corporate Identity and Branding Guidelines. Knowledge of Advanced printing
and publishing. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act and Treasury
Regulations. Knowledge of layout and typography. Knowledge of Digital
Marketing, social media, intranet and internet. Knowledge of Communication
Policy and internet communication. Knowledge of Branding guidelines/manual.
Ability to conceptualize from brief to final artwork. Communication skills (verbal
and written). Photographic skills. Organising skills. Interpersonal relations
skills. Report writing skills. Problem solving skills. Computer literacy. Project
management skills. Inspection and analytical skills. Adobe creative suite skills
(inDesign, Photoshop, Illustrator, Premier Pro etc.). The ideal candidate must
be honest, have integrity, commitment, and be professional. He/she should
have the ability to maintain confidentiality, be creative and innovative and be a
team player.
DUTIES : Plan and design exhibitions for all Departmental and interdepartmental events
and functions. Prepare and develop graphic design iterms for the Department.
Develop and maintain the department’s brand identity. Provide advice and
technical support to regional offices and other departmental offices/facilities.
Conduct research on the latest developments in relation to graphic design and
branding.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mcetywa Tel No: (033) 355 0628
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
97
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 33/124 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT (TO THE DIRECTOR: SECURITY SERVICES) REF
NO: DOT 392/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Secretarial Diploma or equivalent qualification related to secretarial; plus a
minimum of 3 years ‘s experience in rendering a support service to senior
management. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required: Knowledge of
the relevant legislation/policies/prescripts and procedures. Basic knowledge of
financial administration. Language skills and the ability to communicate well
with people at different levels and from different backgrounds. Good telephone
etiquette. Computer Literacy. Sound organizational skills. Good people
management skills. High level of reliability. Written communication skills. Ability
to act with tact and discretion. Ability to do research and analyze documents
and situations. Good grooming and presentation skills. Self-management and
motivation skills. Able to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Director. Render
administrative support services. Provide support to the Director regarding
meetings. Support the Director with the administration of the budget.
Study the relevant Public Service and Departmental prescripts/policies and
other documents and ensure that the application thereof is understood
properly. Proofread and analyse submissions/documents and advise the
Director accordingly.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Tibe Tel No: (033) 355 8088
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 33/125 : AUDIO VISUAL TECHNICIAN REF NO: DOT 393/2025 (X2 POSTS)
Communications Support Directorate
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Photography, Video Technology or Degree
in Television and Broadcasting; plus A minimum of 2 years’ experience in photo
and video production. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required:
Knowledge of video production, photography editing, video camera operation,
script writing for video and Digital Asset Management. Video and photography
camera technique skills. Video editing, software and hardware, script writing
skills. Skills in operating advanced video equipment. Computer literacy. Writing
skills. Design and layout skills. Problem solving skills. Decision making skills.
Leadership skills. Project management skills. Creativity skills. Social Media
Management skills. Innovation skills. Planning skills. Analytical skills. Story
telling skills. The ideal candidate should be professional and reliable.
DUTIES : Video filming of all Departmental events, take photographs during all
Departmental functions as well as transcribe speeches as and when assigned
by the supervisor. Establish, develop and maintain the Audio-Visual Centre
within the Department. Assist in updating internet and intranet. Manage the
Audio-Visual Centre and ensure that it is constantly updated. Assist in providing
external customers with audio visual material and to provide this material
during exhibitions in order to promote the good image of the Department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Ndlovu Tel No: (033) 355 0658
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
98
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 33/126 : SENIOR PROVINCIAL INSPECTOR (X10 POSTS)
Kindly note that some of these posts are a re-advertisement. Applicants who
applied previously and who still wish to be considered are at liberty to re-apply.
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Empangeni Region (X3 Posts):
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Empangeni Ref No: DOT 394/2025 (X1 Post)
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Mtubatuba Ref No: DOT 395/2025 (X1 Post)
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Vryheid Ref No: DOT 396/2025 (X1 Post)
Durban Region (X3 Posts):
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Port Shepstone Ref No: DOT 397/2025 (X2 Posts)
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Winkelspruit Ref No: DOT 398/2025 (X1 Post)
Pietermaritzburg Region (X1 Post):
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Pietermaritzburg Ref No: DOT 399/2025 (X1 Post)
Ladysmith Region (X3 Posts):
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Ladysmith Ref No: DOT 400/2025 (X2 Posts)
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Greytown Ref No: DOT 401/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate; plus Basic Traffic Officer’s Diploma; plus Registered as a
Traffic Officer; plus A minimum of 3 - 5 years practical experience as a
Provincial Inspector; plus A valid driving licence (minimum code B); plus
Applicants must possess no criminal record. Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies Required: Knowledge and understanding of road traffic and
Public Transport legislation, policies and regulations. Knowledge of vehicle
inspections, vehicle impoundment and completion of Law Enforcement
documents. Knowledge of Firearm and Ammunition Act 60/2000, code of
conduct, dangerous goods and Departmental policies. Knowledge of
guidelines from Director of Public Prosecutions, departmental guidelines on
overload control and escort duties Transport Handbook (TRH) 11. Knowledge
of operational guidelines on law enforcement equipment. Records, resource
and customer relationship management skills. Literacy skills (written and verbal
communication skills in at least two of the provincial languages). Conflict
resolution and driving skills. Negotiation, interpretation and legal evidential
skills. Observation skills (moving violations/defects). Ability to work under
pressure. Mentoring and coaching skills.
DUTIES : Management and supervision of subordinates (people management). Enforce
Road Traffic, Public Passenger, Transport and other relevant legislations.
Examine Driver’s Licences and Motor Vehicles and monitor compliance at
Driver Licence Testing Centres (DLTC) and Vehicle Testing Stations (VTS).
Provide visible Traffic Control/Policing and promote/ensure crime prevention
activities. Perform all administrative activities and related duties. Assess road
conditions. Mentor and coach Provincial Inspectors (PIs) on probation and
appointed PIs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr VK Chetty Tel No: (033) 355 8880
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X 9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these
positions. Kindly Note That The 24/7 Shift System Will Be Applicable.
POST 33/127 : PROVINCIAL INSPECTOR (X67 POSTS)
These posts are for qualified Traffic Officers
Kindly note that this is a re-advertisement. Applicants who applied previously
and who still wish to be considered are at liberty to re-apply.
SALARY : R269 499 per annum (Level 06)
99
CENTRE : Empangeni Region (X14 Posts):
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Empangeni Ref No: DOT 402/2025 (X3 Posts)
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Nongoma Ref No: DOT 403/2025 (X1 Post)
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Mtubatuba Ref No: DOT 404/2025 (X3 Posts)
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Vryheid Ref No: DOT 405/2025 (X3 Posts)
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Ulundi Ref No: DOT 406/2025 (X4 Posts)
Durban Region (X40 Posts):
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Groutville Ref No: DOT 407/2025 (X1 Post)
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Port Shepstone Ref No: DOT 408/2025 (X8 Posts)
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Pinetown Ref No: DOT 409/2025 (X22 Posts)
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Umdloti Ref No: DOT 410/2025 (X5 Posts)
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Winkelspruit Ref No: DOT 411/2025 (X4 Posts)
Pietermaritzburg Region (X11 Posts):
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Ixopo Ref No: DOT 412/2025 (X1 Post)
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Pietermaritzburg Ref No: DOT 413/2025 (X5 Posts)
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Umzimkhulu Ref No: DOT 414/2025 (X5 Posts)
Ladysmith Region (X2 Posts):
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Dundee Ref No: DOT 415/2025 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate; plus A valid Driving Licence (minimum Code B); plus Basic
Traffic Officers Diploma; plus One year practical experience in law
enforcement; plus Applicants must possess no criminal record. Knowledge,
Skills and Competencies Required: Knowledge and understanding of Road
Traffic and Public Transport legislation, policies and regulations. Knowledge of
vehicle inspections and vehicle impoundment. Knowledge of completion of
Law Enforcement documents. Knowledge of Firearm and Ammunition Act
60/2000. Knowledge of code of conduct. Knowledge of dangerous goods.
Knowledge of Departmental policies. Knowledge of guidelines from Director of
Public Prosecutions. Knowledge of Departmental guidelines on overload
control and escort duties Transport Handbook (TRH) 11. Knowledge of
operational guidelines on law enforcement equipment. Records and resource
management skills. Customer relationship management skills. Literacy skills
(Written and verbal communication skills in at least two of the provincial
languages). Negotiation and conflict resolution skills. Driving skills.
Interpretation skills. Legal evidential skills. Observation skills (moving
violations / defects). Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Enforce Road Traffic, Public Passenger and Transport Legislation. Examine
Drivers’ Licences and Motor Vehicles and monitor compliance at Driver Licence
Testing Centres (DLTC) and Vehicle Testing Stations (VTS). Provide visible
Traffic Control/Policing and promote/ensure crime prevention activities.
Perform all administrative activities and related duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Chetty Tel No: (033) 355 8880
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X 9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these
positions. Kindly Note That The 24/7 Shift System Will Be Applicable.
POST 33/128 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A-C (MECHANICAL) (X14 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade A: R243 597 per annum, (dependent on experience), (OSD)
Grade B: R285 816 per annum, (dependent on experience), (OSD)
Grade C: R332 061 per annum, (dependent on experience), (OSD)
(Salary will be determined according to post registration experience as per
OSD prescripts)
CENTRE : Ladysmith Region (X4 Posts):
Mechanical, Ladysmith Ref No: DOT 371/2025 (X2 Posts)
Mechanical, Newcastle Ref No: DOT 372/2025 (X1 Post)
Mechanical, Bergville Ref No: DOT 373/2025 (X1 Post)
Empangeni Region (X3 Posts):
Mechanical, Nongoma (Ref. No. DOT 374/2025 (X3 Posts)
Pietermaritzburg Region (X3 Posts):
Mechanical, Structure Shop Ref No: DOT 375/2025 (X1 Post)
Mechanical, Mountain Rise Ref No: DOT 376/2025 (X1 Post)
100
Mechanical, Underbeg Ref No: DOT 377/2025 (X1 Post)
Durban Region (X4 Posts):
Auxiliary Workshop, Metro Ref No: DOT 378/2025 (X2 Posts)
Mechanical, Stanger Ref No: DOT 379/2025 (X1 Post)
Concrete Team, Metro Ref No: DOT 380/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Trade Test Certificate in Earth moving equipment
mechanic/Construction plant mechanic/ Tractor Mechanic/Diesel mechanic;
plus A valid driver’s licence (minimum code C1). Grade A: No experience
required. Grade B: At least 18 years’ experience. Grade C: At least 34 years’
experience). Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required: Technical
analysis knowledge. Technical Report writing knowledge. Knowledge of
Computer Aided technical applications. Knowledge of legal compliance.
Knowledge of production process and skills. Knowledge of technical
consulting. Problem solving and analysis skills. Decision making skills.
Teamwork skills. Creativity skills. Self – management skills. Customer focus
and responsiveness skills. Communication skills. Computer skills. Planning
and organizing skills. The ideal candidate must be analytical, reliable, accurate,
open, transparent, innovative and have integrity.
DUTIES : Design: Produce designs according to client specifications and within limits of
production capability. Production: Produce objects with material and equipment
according to job specification and recognized standards. Quality assurance of
produced objects. Maintenance: Inspect equipment and plant for technical
faults. Repair equipment and facilities according to standards. Test repaired
equipment and plant against specifications. Service equipment and plant
according to schedule. Quality assure serviced and maintained equipment
and/or facilities. Perform administrative and related functions: Compile and
submit reports. Provide inputs to the operational plan. Keep and maintain job
record/register; and Supervise and mentor staff. Maintain and advance
expertise: Continuous individual development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on technical
/engineering technology to improve expertise.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Afrika (Durban Region) Tel No: (031) 700-2222
Mr L Songca (Pietermaritzburg Region) Tel No: (033) 392 6600
Mr MP Ntuli (Ladysmith Region) Tel No: (036) 638 4400
Ms T Dingiswayo (Empangeni Region) Tel No: (035) 562 0262
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X 9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these
positions.
POST 33/129 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X33 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Provincial Regulatory Entity:
Capturing/ Gazetting and Issuing (RA) Ref No: DOT 381/2025 (X1 Post)
Ugu District Ref No: DOT 382/2025 (X4 Posts)
Umkhanyakude District Ref No: DOT 383/2025 (X4 Posts)
Ethekwini Metro Ref No: DOT 384/2025 (X9 Posts)
King Cetshwayo District Ref No: DOT 385/2025 (X4 Posts)
Ilembe District Ref No: DOT 386/2025 (X4 Posts)
Uthukela District Ref No: DOT 387/2025 (X4 Posts)
Umgungundlovu District Ref No: DOT 388/2025 (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/ National Certificate (Vocational) NQF Level 4. Knowledge,
Skills and Competencies Required: Knowledge of Public Service Act.
Knowledge of E-Natis Systems. Knowledge of National Land Transport Act
(NLTA). Knowledge of National Public Transport Regulator (NPTR). Knowledge
of South African Constitution, Public Service Regulations and PFMA.
Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles. Computer Literacy. Organisational and
Planning skills. Good communication skills – verbal and written. Interpersonal
skills. Customer Care skills. The ideal candidate should have ethical behaviour
(Honesty and Loyalty), be responsible, punctual, conscientious, flexible,
101
receptive to suggestions and ideas, be a team player, be accurate, be neat and
tidy and comply with the Code of Conduct.
DUTIES : Provide licensing, permit and registration services (service desk / bulk
application). Provide back office administrative services. Provide customer
care support services. Provide financial administration support services in the
component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Makhathini Tel No: (033) 355 0471
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X 9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these
positions.
POST 33/130 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK (PRODUCTION): OFFICE SERVICES REF NO:
DOT 389/2025
Corporate Support Services Directorate
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/ National Certificate (Vocational) NQF Level 4 Knowledge,
Skills and Competencies Required: Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as
well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics.
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service. Knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working
environment. Computer literacy. Planning and organisational skills. Language
skills. Good verbal and written communication skills. Interpersonal relations
skills. Flexibility skills. Teamwork skills. The ideal candidate should be honest,
reliable, innovative, creative, have the ability to work under pressure, work
individually and as part of a team, maintain confidentiality, interpersonal
relations, trustworthiness, loyalty, friendly disposition, efficient and responsible.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component. Provide personnel administration clerical
support services within the component. Provide financial administration
support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Simelane Tel No: (033) 355 8627
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X 9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 33/131 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: MOVABLE ASSETS REF NO: DOT 390/2025
(X1 POST)
Kindly note that this is a re-advertisement. Applicants who applied previously
and who still wish to be considered are at liberty to re-apply.
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/ National Certificate (Vocational) NQF Level 4, plus A valid
driver’s licence (minimum code B). Knowledge, Skills and Competencies
Required: Knowledge of basic asset management duties and practices.
Knowledge and understanding of basic legislative framework governing the
Public Service (PFMA and Treasury Regulations). Knowledge of basic work
procedures in terms of the working environment. Knowledge of basic financial
operating systems (BAS and Hardcat). Basic Accounting/ Numeracy skills.
Have the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics.
Computer Literacy (Excel/ Access). Flexibility and teamwork skills. Good
Interpersonal relations skills. Computer skills (Financial Systems). Planning
and organization skills. Language skills. Good verbal and written
102
communication skills. The ideal candidate must be highly motivated, receptive
to ideas and suggestions, a high performer, confident, accurate reliable, open,
honest, creative, innovative and detail orientated. He/she must be a self-starter
and team player, demonstrate willingness to learn and interest in Asset
Management field, must have strong work ethic- with the sense of urgency to
get the right things done and must be capable of working under deadline
pressures.
DUTIES : Reconcile Departmental Movable Assets and BAS. Capture movements of
Movable Assets into FAR. Verify the Departmental Movable Assets in terms of
the Departmental Policy. Dispose obsolete and redundant Movable Assets in
terms of the Departmental Policy. Render theft and losses.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Tom Tel No: (033) 355 8643
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X 9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 33/132 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (PRODUCTION): OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
AND SAFETY REF NO: DOT 391/2025 (X2 POSTS)
Human Resource Administration Directorate
SALARY : R228 321 annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate / National Certificate (Vocational) NQF Level 4; plus A valid
driver’s licence (minimum Code B). Knowledge, Skills and Competencies
Required: Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to
capture data, operate a computer and collect statistics. Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working environment.
Computer skills. Planning and organising skills. Language skills. Good verbal
and written communication skills. Interpersonal relations skills. Flexibility and
teamwork skills. The ideal candidate should be honest, reliable, must be
innovative/creative, have the ability to work under pressure, work individually
and part of a team, and to maintain confidentiality. He/she must also be
trustworthy, loyal, have a friendly disposition and be efficient and responsible.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Provide Supply Chain clerical support
services within the component. Provide personnel administration clerical
support services within the component. Provide financial administration
support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Zondi Tel No: (033) 355 8653
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X 9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these
positions.
POST 33/133 : TRAINEE PROVINCIAL INSPECTOR REF NO: DOT 416/2025 (X200
POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Traffic Training College Pietermaritzburg during the period of training. Upon
successful completion of the Traffic Officer’s Diploma, successful candidates
must be prepared to be placed at any of the RTI stations across the KwaZulu-
Natal Province
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4); plus A valid Code
B driving licence – manual transmission; plus Have no criminal record –
Successful candidates will undergo a full SAPS clearance screening before
being appointed; plus Applicants to provide a medical certificate from a medical
103
practitioner (doctor or clinic) which is not older than 3 months as proof that
he/she may perform strenuous exercise. Physical fitness allowing a person to
perform strenuous exercise is a requirement. Please note that successful
candidates will also be subjected to a full medical examination at State
expense to determine fitness before confirmation of appointment; plus
Applicants may not be older than 35 years of age on the first day of enrolment
at the Traffic Training College; plus Applicants must be a South African Citizen
or a Permanent Resident; plus Applicants must be a fit and proper person..
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required: Problem solving skills; Good
verbal and written communication skills; Driving skills; Innovative and
independent thinking skills; Ability to work as part of a team; Ability to interpret
and apply legislation and policies.
DUTIES : Enforce Road Traffic, Public Passenger and Transport Legislation through inter
alia: Implement planned and approved traffic law enforcement activities.
Ensure the free flow of traffic through point duty and traffic control at congested
areas. Coordinate activities at and safeguard accident scenes, identify and
advise management on hazardous locations. Participate in traffic policing
projects and speed testing operations. Issue notices and execute arrests under
relevant Acts, directives and procedures and attend court proceedings and give
evidence. Escort abnormal vehicles and loads to ensure the safe movement
thereof and coordinate overload control management (includes goods and
passengers). Examine Drivers' Licences and Motor Vehicles and monitor
compliance at Driver Licence Testing Centres (DLTC) and Vehicle Testing
Stations (VTS) through inter alia: Conduct learner and driver licence tests. ii.
Conduct vehicle road worthy test. Monitor compliance of DLTC and VTS.
Provide visible Traffic Control / Policing and promote / ensure crime prevention
activities through inter alia: Assist in planning visible traffic policing by providing
assistance to motorists and executing escort duties. Participate in roadblocks
and/or special law enforcement operations. Patrolling of roads in dedicated
area and warn motorists at hazardous locations (i.e. damaged road surfaces,
breakdown of vehicles). Perform all administrative activities and related duties
through inter alia: Maintain effective administrative procedures. Compliance
with the Firearm and Ammunition Act 60/2000. Compliance with activities as
outlined in the operational plans. Participate in Human Resource Development
Programs. Promote effective and efficient service delivery to clients. Maintain
professional corporate image of Directorate: Traffic Law Enforcement
ENQUIRIES : Mr VK Chetty Tel No: (033) 355 8880
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these
positions. Successful applicants will be appointed as a Trainee Provincial
Inspector (commencing salary R193 359 per annum) for a fixed period of two
years during which time they will be required to successfully complete the
Traffic Officer’s Diploma Course. On successful completion of the Traffic
Officer’s Diploma Course within the two-year fixed period, the Trainee
Provincial Inspector will be employed in a permanent capacity on 12 calendar
months’ probation as a Provincial Inspector (salary level 6) without a break in
service. Trainee Provincial Inspectors who do not successfully complete the
Traffic Officer’s Diploma Course after the two-year fixed period will
automatically have their employment terminated. Persons currently in the
employ of the Public Service would be required to resign from their present
positions, should they be successful for and appointed as Trainee Provincial
Inspectors. Applicants will be required to undergo the following competency
tests / examinations: 1. Written Competency Test; 2. Practical Driving
Evaluation; 3. Medical Examinations; 4. Fitness Test; 5. Criminal Record and
Personnel Suitability Checks; and 6. Formal Interviews. Successful applicants
will be required to: 1. Enter into contract of employment including a
Performance Agreement pertaining to Trainee Provincial Inspector whilst being
trained at the Traffic Training College; 2. Work shifts, including weekends and
Public Holidays whilst being trained at the Traffic Training College - Kindly Note
That The 24/7 Shift System Will Be Applicable; and 3. Undergo physical
training whilst at the Traffic Training College. Successful applicants must be
104
able to bear arms and undergo training and competency tests in terms of the
Firearm Control Act. Applicants will be required to complete an indemnity form
relating to the various recruitment processes. Applicants will be subjected to
alcohol screening at all stages of the selection process. Applicants found to
have positive readings will be immediately disqualified. Successful applicants
must serve a minimum of 12 months within the Road Traffic Inspectorate after
completing the Traffic Officer Diploma Course. Failure to do so will result in
candidates being liable for the full course fees as prescribed by the Traffic
Training College.
105
ANNEXURE M
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Limpopo Department of Agriculture and Rural Development is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer with clear employment equity targets. Applications are hereby invited for the filling of the
vacant posts, which exist in the Limpopo Department of Agriculture and Rural Development. Women and
people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants using electronic format must quote the relevant reference number
on the application and apply on the following website:
https://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za and applicants submitting applications in a
printed hard copy (manual or hand delivery) must quote the relevant reference
number on the application and forward to the below addresses.
Head office: Polokwane: The Head of Department, Limpopo Department of
Agriculture and Rural Development, Private Bag X9487, Polokwane, 0700 or
hand delivered to: Office 48, Temo Towers Floor 2, 67/69 Biccard Street,
Polokwane, 0699.
Capricorn District: The Director: Capricorn District, Limpopo Department of
Agriculture and Rural Development, Private Bag X28, Chuenespoort, 0745 or
hand delivered to: Block 28 Next to Traffic Government offices: Lebowakgomo.
Sekhukhune District: The Director: Sekhukhune District, Limpopo
Department of Agriculture and Rural Development, Private Bag X01,
Chuenespoort, 0745 or hand delivered to: Block 27 Next to Traffic Government
offices: Lebowakgomo.
Mopani District: The Director Mopani District Limpopo Department of
Agriculture and Rural Development, Private Bag X577, Giyani, 0826 or hand
delivered to: Old Parliamentary Building, Giyani, 0826.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
NOTE : It is compulsory for the applicant to complete all the mandatory fields of the E-
recruitment System. Once all the fields in an E-recruitment System are
completed, the applicant shall confirm that they understand that by applying
electronically, they agree that all the information presented is true, correct, and
legally binding. All applications submitted through an electronic format shall be
accepted as the final application and may not be amended or supplemented in
any way after the closing date indicated in the advertisement. Applicants
submitting applications in a printed hard copy (manual or hand delivery) must
utilize the most recent Z83 application for employment form as issued by the
Minister for the Public Service and Administration in line with Regulation 10 of
the Public Service Regulation, 2016, as amended, failure to do so will results
in disqualification. The Z83 form must be completed in a manner that provides
sufficient information about the candidate and the post he or she applies for by
completing all relevant fields. The declaration must be signed in order for an
applicant to be considered. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the new z83 form by the applicants: All the fields in Parts A, B,
C, and D must be completed. In Part B, all fields must be completed in full
except the following; South African applicants need not provide passport
numbers, If an applicant responds "no" to the question I' Are you conducting
business with the State or are you a Director of a Public or Private Company
conducting business with the State?" then the answer to the next question "In
the event that you are employed in the Public Service, will you immediately
relinquish such business interests?" can be left blank or indicated as not
applicable. A "not applicable" or blank response will be allowed on the question
"if your profession or occupation requires official registration, provide date and
particulars of registration”, if you are not in possession of such registration.
Noting there is limited space provided for Part E, F & G, applicants often
indicate "refer to Curriculum Vitae (CV) or see attached", this is acceptable as
long as the CV has been attached and provides the required information. If the
information required is not provided in the CV, the applicant may be
disqualified. It must be noted that a CV is an extension of the application of
employment Z83, and applicants are accountable for the information that is
provided therein. The question related to conditions that prevent re-
appointment under Part F must be answered (Applicants currently employed
by the public service do not need to complete the section). The application
must include only completed and signed Z83 form and a recently updated
comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience). Certified copies of
Identity Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as
106
well as a driver's license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the date of the interview date. The applicant
may submit additional information separately where the space provided on z83
form is not sufficient. Applicants who apply for more than one position are
requested to submit separate applications for each position they wish to apply
for. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only due to the
large number of applications we envisage to receive and if you have not heard
from us within 90 days of the closing date, please accept that your application
has been unsuccessful. However, should there be any dissatisfaction,
applicants are hereby advised to, within 90 days, request reasons from the
Department for any administrative action which has adversely affected them in
terms of section 5(1)(2) of the Promotion of Administrative Justice Act 3 of
2000. By virtue of applying, you are consenting that the department subject
you to personnel suitability checks e.g. the verification of educational
qualifications, previous experience, citizenship, reference checks, financial
checks and security vetting. Candidates with foreign qualifications are advised
to attach SAQA accreditation of their qualifications. As per DPSA directive on
human resources management and development for public service
professionalization volume 1, “All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and
the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment”. Note: Shortlisted
candidates for Senior Management Services (SMS) will be subjected to a
technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job,
the logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. Following the
interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in
compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-
based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
Assessment tool. In order to ensure that potential SMS members have a
background on processes and procedures linked to the SMS, a further
requirement for appointment at SMS level will be a successful completion of
the Senior Management pre-entry certificate/programme as endorsed by the
National School of Governance (NSC) with effect from 01st April 2020. This is
a Public Service specific training programme which will be applicable for
appointments at SMS level. The link for the completion of the SMS pre-entry
certificate is as follows: https://www.thensg.qov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entry-programme/. All short-listed candidates will be required to have
completed the pre-entry SMS certificate and submit such on the date of the
interview. Failure to comply with the above requirements will results in the
disqualification of the application. Successful incumbents will be expected to
sign a performance agreement within three months of the assumption of duty
and be required to disclose their financial interest in accordance with the
prescribed regulations. Failure to comply with the above requirements will
result in the disqualification of the application. The Department reserves the
right not to make any appointment for the advertised posts. The employment
decision shall be made by the Employment Equity Plan for the Department.
Note: Due to austerity measures, the department will not carry any related
costs (transport, accommodation, and meals) for candidates attending
interviews.
OTHER POSTS
POST 33/134 : CHIEF ENGINEER REF NO: LDARD 1/8/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 266 450 per annum (OSD), all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus Engineering degree (B Eng/ BSC (Eng) or equivalent
qualification as recognised by SAQA. Six years post qualification experience
required as a registered professional Engineer. Compulsory registration with
ECSA as a Professional Engineer. A valid driver’s licence (with the exception
of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Technical:
Programme and Project management. Engineering, legal and operational
compliance. Engineering Operational communication. Process knowledge and
skills. Maintenance skills. and knowledge. Mobile equipment operating skills.
Engineering design and analysis. knowledge. Research and Development.
Computer-aided Engineering applications. Creating high Performance culture.
107
Technical Consulting. Engineering and Professional judgment. Generic:
Strategic capability and leadership. Problem solving and analysis. Decision
making. Team leadership. Creativity Financial Management. Customer focus
and Responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills. People Management.
Planning and organising. Conflict Management. Negotiation skills. Change
management.
DUTIES : Engineering design and analysis effectiveness. Maintain engineering
operational effectiveness. Governance. Financial Management. People
management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 33/135 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT REF NO: LDARD
2/8/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate undergraduate (NQF level 6) qualification in
Purchasing Management, Supply Chain Management and Logistics
Management) or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA. A minimum
of three (03) - five (05) years’ experience in Acquisition Management / Supply
Chain Management at Supervisory Position. A valid driver’s licence (with the
exception of people with disabilities). knowledge, competencies and skills:
Knowledge of relevant prescripts and understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
Labour Relations Act, Public Finance Management Act, Understanding of
Procurement Regulations, policies, Procurement strategies, Framework and
Acts. People Management. Financial Management. Problem Solving. Planning
& organizing. Time Management. Policy analysis. Good Communication skills.
Facilitation skills. Presentation skills. Coordination skills. Change Management
skills. Communication skills. Conflict Management skills. Presentation and
Report writing skills. Responsiveness. Pro-activeness. Professionalism.
Accuracy. Flexibility. Independent. Co-operative. Team player; Supportive.
Willing to work under changing and difficult circumstances.
DUTIES : Facilitate advertisement of bids and price quotations. Facilitate bids evaluation
meetings. Facilitate adjudication of bids and price quotations and compilation
of procurement reports. Supervise subordinates and utilise resources (human
and physical) in accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mtswene PV Tel No: (015) 294
3395, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 33/136 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCE SERVICES
REF NO: LDARD 3/8/2025 (X2) POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mopani District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF level 6) undergraduate qualification in
Human Resource Management/ Public Management/ Administration or
equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognized by SAQA. PERSAL
training certificates. A minimum of 2-3 years’ experience in Human Resource
Management environment. knowledge, competencies and skills: Knowledge
and understanding of Regulations, Acts, Policies and procedures governing
Public Service. Understanding of COIDA. Report writing skills. Facilitation
skills. Co-ordination skills. Liaison skills. Networking skills. Computer skills.
Good communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide human resource provisioning. Provide conditions of service. Provide
human resource planning. Supervise subordinates and utilize resources
(human and physical) in accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Malatji MA and Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 811 9837 or (015) 811 1189.
POST 33/137 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ADMINISTRATION SUPPORT SERVICES (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune East Ref No: LDARD 4/8/2025 (X1 Post)
108
Sekhukhune West Ref No: LDARD 5/8/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus NQF level 6 in Public Management/ Administration / Human
Resource Management/Financial Management Qualification or equivalent
qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 2-3 years' experience in
Administration. A valid driver's license (with the exception of people with
disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies, and Skills: Strong organizational
skills, Communication skills, Experience with technology and software.
Problem-solving skills. Knowledge of working procedure in terms of the working
government. Customer service skills. Knowledge of the PFMA. Computer
proficiency. Report writing skills. Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles.
DUTIES : Supervise and render administrative support services at Agro-ecological zone.
Supervise and render general clerical support services. Supervise and provide
supply chain clerical support services. Supervise and provide personnel
administration clerical support services. Supervise and provide financial
administration support services. Supervise and provide transport support
services. Supervise human resources/staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Laka MA Tel No: (015) 632 7000 or Ms. Mphahlele RS Tel No: (015) 632
7000.
POST 33/138 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: STORES (SUPPLY CHAIN & ASSET
MANAGEMENT) REF NO: LDARD 6/8/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Capricorn District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification as recognized by SAQA. Knowledge,
Competencies and Skills: Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well as the
ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge
and understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working environment. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility.
Teamwork. Computer literacy. Planning and organization.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Provide supply chain clerical support
services. Provide personnel administration clerical support services. Provide
financial administration support services. Provide transport support services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sebatjane LD Tel No: (015) 632 8609, Mr. Masera TN Tel No: (015) 632
8625, Maredi RB Tel No: (015) 632 8610
POST 33/139 : PHOTOCOPIER OPERATOR: ADMINISTRATION SUPPORT SERVICES
REF NO: LDARD 7/8/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune South Central
REQUIREMENTS Grade 8 certificate or equivalent qualification as recognized by SAQA.
Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Knowledge of operating office machine
or equipment's. Report writing skills, computer skills, problem solving skills.
Ability to communicate with stakeholders at all levels. Computer literacy will be
tested.
DUTIES : To provide photocopier services. Operate the photocopier and fax machines.
Binding and laminating documents. Provide counter service. Perform minor
maintenance on the photocopier machine. Make requisition for photocopying
materials.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Laka MA Tel No: (015) 632 7000 or Ms. Mphahlele RS Tel No: (015) 632
7000.
109
ANNEXURE N
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference.
OTHER POSTS
POST 33/140 : HEAD CLINICAL UNIT GRADE 1: OBSTETRICS AND GYNAECOLOGY
(REPRODUCTIVE MEDICINE)
SALARY : Grade 1: R2 084 754 per annum, A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Sub Specialist in Obstetrics and Gynaecology (Reproductive
Medicine). Registration with Professional council: Registration with the HPCSA
as Medical Sub Specialist in Obstetrics and Gynaecology (Reproductive
Medicine). Experience: A minimum of 3-years appropriate experience as a
Medical Sub Specialist (Reproductive Medicine) after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Sub-Specialist in Reproductive Medicine. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Excellent track record of clinical and education skills at
postgraduate level. Must be able to provide academic leadership across the
Metro West platform and at Groote Schuur Hospital. Needs to stimulate and
apply clinical research in the day-to day working environment and be able to
supervise post-graduate research projects. Good managerial and
communication skills, as well as analytical and clinical problem-solving skills
are essential. Must have the clinical skills to handle complex Obstetrics and
Gynaecology (tertiary level) cases. Computer literacy. Must have insight into
challenges in Health Care in South Africa and Africa, as well as diversity,
transformation and equity. Ability to function well in a team environment, with
good inter-personal skills. A proven track record of either high-level post-
graduate educational skills, preferably at faculty leadership and national level.
A strong research track record. Sufficient clinical skills to handle a large clinical
workload, training and supervision of undergraduate and postgraduate
students (Registrars and Subspecialist fellows).
DUTIES : Collaborative engagement with other related disciplines. Build and maintain
departmental team spirit and development Provide academic leadership in
teaching, training and research, manage the human resources of the unit.
Leadership and mentorship of all junior staff, including nursing staff when
applicable, as well as staff performance management for the unit. The
incumbent should be able to provide comprehensive, efficient and effectively
managed specialist and subspecialist services in O&G including
gynaecological endocrinology, recurrent pregnancy loss, menopause care,
level three family planning services, and level three infertility care including
assisted reproductive technology. This includes related investigation, treatment
planning and safe and appropriate surgery clinical and services with clinical
governance of level 3 Gynae services at Groote Schuur Hospital and across
Metro West. This would include taking on a leadership position in the tertiary
level portfolio, which also includes taking a leadership role in the department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Koks Tel No: (021) 404-6020 or email marilyn.koks@uct.ac.za or Prof M
Matjila mushi.matjila@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
110
POST 33/141 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (FAMILY PHYSICIAN)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Vredendal Hospital, Matzikama Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Family Physician. Registration with Professional council: Registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa as a Medical Specialist in Family
Medicine. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Medical Specialist.
Grade 2: Minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience after registration as
Medical Specialist in Family Medicine. Grade 3: Minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience after registration as Medical Specialist in Family
Medicine. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB);
willingness to work Commuted Overtime at the hospital; willingness to work at
PHC clinics throughout the sub-district. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to lead a multidisciplinary team in delivering primary health care at clinic
and hospital levels. Knowledge of Community-Oriented Primary Care;
stakeholder engagement; strong communication, interpersonal, leadership and
conflict resolution skills; ability to perform under high-stress; basic computer
skills (MS Word, Excel, Outlook).
DUTIES : Provide clinical governance and guidance to facility managers at the hospital
and clinics; clinical service delivery at specialist level (Family Medicine and
Emergencies); training of students, community service staff, Medical Officers
and allied health staff; clinical and managerial tasks related to HR and financial
resources; engage in relevant research.
ENQUIRIES : Dr E C T Ockhuis Tel No: (027) 213-2038/6
APPLICATIONS : Submit online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”).
NOTE : No payment is required for applying. Candidates may be subjected to a
practical test. Applicants not yet registered must submit proof of application and
registration fee payment by interview day; this concession applies only to first-
time council registration or registration status changes. Pool applications may
be considered for other vacancies in the Matzikama Sub-district for three
months if job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level
remain the same.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/142 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (FORENSIC PATHOLOGY)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs).
CENTRE : Forensic Pathology Services, Forensic Medicine, Stellenbosch University
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Forensic Pathology. Registration with Professional
council: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as a
Specialist in Forensic Pathology. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Forensic Pathology. Grade 2: A
minimum of 5 years' appropriate experience as a Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or recognized Foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of foreign qualified employees) as a Medical Specialist in
Forensic Pathology. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years' appropriate experience
as a Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or recognized
Foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees)
as a Medical Specialist in Forensic Pathology. Inherent requirements of the job:
Valid driver's license. Will be required to deliver expert testimony in court
proceedings. Will be required to perform work duties outside normal working
111
hours and away from base of employment. Availability to travel to regional
facilities to offer a service for limited periods. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Above-average ability to communicate clearly and discreetly in person and in
writing. Above-average Computer and software literacy. Knowledge of the
functioning of a Forensic Pathology Department. Ability to teach Medical
students, Forensic Pathology Officers and Medical Staff. Good interpersonal
skills including effective service delivery within a group situation at all levels of
authority. Working knowledge of the legislation, policies and code of conduct
pertaining to Forensic Pathology practice. Research ability. Exposure to Post-
mortems, autopsy work and dissection. Creativity and openness to new ideas.
DUTIES : Provide full-time medico-legal death investigative service within the Division of
Forensic Medicine by performance of and supervising post-mortems of natural
and unnatural deaths. Provide full-time medico-legal death investigative
service within the Division of Forensic Medicine by compiling and completing
reports, including all ancillary investigations. Expert testimony in court as well
as expert opinion on inquest dockets or the relevant cases as requested by the
Department of Justice. Academic teaching and training, research, clinical
governance and quality assurance. Support to the Head: Clinical Unit with all
administrative functions of the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Dr J Verste, Email: (jverster@sun.ac.za)
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Candidates may have to undergo
profiling assessments prior to appointment. The pool of applicants will be
considered for vacancies within Forensic Medicine, Stellenbosch University for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/143 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, Observatory Forensic Pathology Institute
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Forensic Pathology. Registration with Professional
council: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as a Specialist in Forensic Pathology. Experience: Grade 1: None
after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Forensic
Pathology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years' appropriate experience as a
Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or recognized Foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees) as a
Medical Specialist in Forensic Pathology. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years'
appropriate experience as a Medical Specialist after registration with the
HPCSA (or recognized Foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees) as a Medical Specialist in Forensic Pathology.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver's license. Will be required to
perform routine service autopsies. Will be required to deliver expert testimony
in court proceedings. Will be required to perform work duties outside normal
working hours and away from base of employment. Availability to travel to
regional facilities to offer a service for limited periods. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Above-average ability to communicate clearly and
discreetly in person and in writing. Above-average Computer and software
112
literacy. Knowledge of the functioning of a Forensic Pathology Department.
Ability to teach Medical students, Forensic Pathology Officers and Medical
Staff. Good interpersonal skills including effective service delivery within a
group situation at all levels of authority. Working knowledge of the legislation,
policies and code of conduct pertaining to Forensic Pathology practice.
Research ability. Exposure to Post-mortems, autopsy work and dissection.
Creativity and openness to new ideas.
DUTIES : Provide full-time medico-legal death investigative service within the Division of
Forensic Medicine by performance of post-mortems of natural and unnatural
deaths. Provide full-time medico-legal death investigative service within the
Division of Forensic Medicine by compiling and completing reports, including
all ancillary investigations. Expert testimony in court as well as expert opinion
on inquest dockets or the relevant cases as requested by the Department of
Justice. -Academic teaching and training, research, clinical governance and
quality assurance. Support to the Head: Clinical Unit with all administrative
functions of the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. IJ Molefe; Email: Itumeleng.Molefe@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a security clearance prior to appointment. Candidates may be
subjected to a profiling assessment prior to appointment. Candidates will be
subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). The pool of applicants will be considered for vacancies
within the Observatory Forensic Pathology Institute for a period of three months
from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/144 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (OCCUPATIONAL MEDICINE)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Occupational Medicine. Registration with Professional
council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Occupational
Medicine. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in Occupational Medicine. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
(or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign
qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Occupational Medicine. Grade
3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Sub-Specialist
after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in
Occupational Medicine. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good clinical and
disability assessment skills. Insight into occupational health policies, services
and programmes. Good communication as well as analytical and problem-
solving skills. Computer and statistical literacy.
DUTIES : Provide academic leadership through teaching, training as well as conducting
and supervising research in occupational health. Provide specialist clinical
services in Occupational Medicine with a client/patient focus. Provide specialist
Occupational Medicine (clinical and non-clinical) occupational health services
to the WCG-HW employees. Provide specialist non-clinical services in
Occupational (and where applicable Environmental) Health with a population
focus.
113
ENQUIRIES : Prof M Jeebhay Tel No: (021) 406 6309 or Mohamed.jeebhay@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Please ensure that you attach an
updated CV. This will be a joint position with the Western Cape Government-
Health (Groote Schuur Hospital) and UCT Departments of Public Health and
Medicine (Occupational Medicine Division and Clinical Unit) for appointment
as of 01 January 2026. There is no commuted overtime attached to this post.
The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur
Hospital, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/145 : REGISTRAR (RADIOLOGY) (X3 POSTS)
(5-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory (X2 Posts)
Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with Professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirement of the job: Current
certificate of ATLS/ACLS. Completion of Part 1 FCA Rad (Diag) SA.
Emergency and after hour call cover. Commuted overtime is compulsory. Each
Registrar will be working from Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital
and Groote Schuur Hospital but will be required to work across the platform.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduate students with the
University of Cape Town. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and
practical skills for safe general diagnostics radiology. Knowledge & appropriate
use of equipment. Interpersonal relationships and skills. Research
methodologies. Diagnostic Radiology experience. Any additional experience in
other fields of diagnostic imaging. Experience in Internal Medicine or critical
care under supervision of a Specialist. Appropriate and sufficient clinical
experience since obtaining the degree of MBChB. Diploma certificates e.g.
Diploma in Anaesthesia (DA) or DiP PEC.
DUTIES : Provision of safe imaging services. Learn the art and science of diagnostic
radiology and imaging. Earn clinical skills required by diagnostic imaging.
Participate in academic activities and teaching responsibilities of the division.
Assist with training of interns, medical students and nursing staff. Undertake a
suitable research project for completion of an MMed degree. Supervision in
diagnostic imaging. Performance appraisals/assessments. Safety of personnel
and patients. Input at meetings. Involvement in research/ audits relating to
diagnostic radiology and imaging.
ENQUIRIES : Prof S Moosa Tel No: (021) 404 4184
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
will have to undergo profiling assessments prior to appointment. Consideration
will be given to existing employees who are already on higher salary packages
to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled to
receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be for a maximum
contract period of 4/5 years. Employees in service who opt to continue with
their pension benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion
of their registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist
positions. Should registration with the HEI as a student be discontinued for any
reason the appointment of Registrar also discontinues. Applicants must
114
indicate whether they have bursary obligations. Please ensure that you attach
an updated CV. Preference will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents
with a valid identity document*. No payment of any kind is required when
applying for this post. “Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of
the interview. This concession is only applicable to health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for a change in registration
status). Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the department’s ecosystem
framing of its training platform. Accordingly, all registrar appointments may be
called upon to work across this platform and may include rotations at Metro
West and Rural East hospitals. This includes Red Cross War Memorial
Children's Hospital, New Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital,
Victoria Hospital and George Provincial Hospital. The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/146 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (FAMILY MEDICINE)
Garden Route District
(4-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs). (It will be expected of the successful
candidate to participate in a system of remunerated commuted overtime).
CENTRE : Garden Route District Office (Stationed at Mossel Bay Hospital with associated
Primary Health Care Centres and short opportunities at George Regional
Hospital as needed)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with Professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid
(code B/EB) driver’s license and willingness to travel. Willingness to work
overtime. Commuted overtime is compulsory. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (i.e., MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and
internet research). Excellent verbal and written communication skills. Good
interpersonal and time-management skills.
DUTIES : Clinical service provision, including participating in community-orientated
primary care activities. Participate in the Teaching program, including in-service
capacity building of staff and supervision of health sciences students.
Research and Professional Development (incl. completion of MMED mini
dissertation). Effective Clinical Administration in patient records and patient
reports as part of the leadership and clinical governance activities.
ENQUIRIES : Dr J Van Jaarsveld Tel No: (044) 604-6108
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Preference will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity
document. No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
“Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointments on condition that proof of application for registration with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This
concession is only applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time
for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for a change in registration status). ii) Other:
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with the applicable
University in the Western Cape according to the requirements for the discipline
in the yearbook and guidelines.” Consideration will be given to existing
employees who are already on higher salary packages to retain their existing
salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled to receive pay
progression. Appointment as Registrar will be for a maximum contract period
115
of 4 years. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension benefits
as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their registrarship
should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions. Should
registration with the HEI as a student be discontinued, for any reason the
appointment of Registrar also discontinues. Applicants must indicate whether
they have bursary obligations. All applicants are required to apply
simultaneously to the relevant university when they submit their application.
The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within Garden Route
District, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.” The links to the applications portals are
as follows: Stellenbosch University: http://www.sun.ac.za/english/maties/apply.
“It may become necessary to second/transfer staff to another
hospital/institution during their period of training, in which case affected staff
will be consulted prior to any decision being implemented. Registrars will
function across health facilities, as per an agreed programme.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/147 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (NEUROSURGERY)
(5 Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs). (It will be expected of the successful
candidate to participate in a system of remunerated commuted overtime).
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with Professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid
(code B/EB) driver’s license. Commuted overtime is compulsory. Emergency
and after-hours call cover. Registrars may be required to work across the
training platform on request. Competencies (knowledge/skills): FCS
(Neurosurgery) Primary Examination passed. Current Advanced Trauma Life
Support (ATLS) certification. Experience as a Medical Officer in a recognized
Neurosurgery training unit. Surgical experience. Research experience
(particularly with publications). Evidence of effective leadership,
communication, and interpersonal skills (as demonstrated in CV and
references). Proficiency in neurosurgical patient care, including peri-operative
management, trauma, and critical care.
DUTIES : Provision of safe and effective neurosurgical care to patients. Provision of care
to neurosurgical patients in both outpatient an in-hospital setting.
Comprehensive peri-operative care of neurosurgical patients, including in the
Intensive Care Unit (ICU). Participate in trauma and emergency care related to
neurosurgery. Attend regular tutorials and assist with the training of interns,
medical students, nursing and allied staff. Take part in on-site after-hours duties
relating to the care of acute patients and inpatients. Involvement in research
and audits, particularly in neurosurgical techniques and patient outcomes.
ENQUIRIES : Prof I Vlok Tel No: (021) 938-9265
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Appointment as
Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 5 years. It may become
necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during their
period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to any
decision being implemented. Registrars will function across health facilities, as
per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a student be
discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Registrar also discontinues.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be
on contract. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension
benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions.
The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this
regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will
be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
116
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch
University according to the yearbook and guidelines. “Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for a change in
registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/148 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (OBSTETRICS AND GYNAECOLOGY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with Professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of who is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Proven experience in principles of planning,
organizing and implementation. Proven knowledge of public health policies,
guidelines and related prescript to manage resources effectively.
DUTIES : Ensure an efficient and cost-effective clinical service of high quality with a
patient centered focus and addressing the burden of disease in the Worcester
healthcare ecosystem. Ensure compliance by means of maintaining high
quality clinical records. Financial management by effective and efficient use of
resources. Adhere to requirements for all HR matters and Code of Conduct.
ENQUIRIES : Dr E Manefeldt Tel No: (023) 348-1100
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for vacancies within Worcester Regional Hospital for a period of 3
117
months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/149 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (TB & HIV MENTORSHIP AND
GOVERNANCE - COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Garden Route District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with Professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of who is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
medical practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years
relevant experience after registration as a medical practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of who is not required to perform Community Service as required
in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a
Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a medical practitioner
in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant
experience after registration as a medical practitioner with a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of who
is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and
willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Expertise in
management, clinical governance and mentorship of TB and HIV programmes.
Accreditation as a mentor for Nurse Initiated Management of Antiretroviral
Therapy (NIMART). Managerial and communication skills (verbal and written).
Computer literacy including virtual meeting platforms e.g. MS TEAMS/ZOOM
Proficiency in facilitating mentorship forums online and in person. Good
leadership and project management skills.
DUTIES : Support Comprehensive Health, enabling effective implementation and
monitoring of TB and HIV programmes throughout the Garden Route District.
Coordinate, implement and support mentorship and training of clinical staff in
TB/HIV services. Facilitate mentorship and authorisation of Professional
Nurses in NIMART Through mentorship programmes and stakeholder
engagement, improve outcomes of TB and HIV programmes. Support the
collection of accurate data at point of care and the analysis thereof to inform
quality improvement plans. Support the development and/or strengthening of
Sub-district clinical governance systems to affect improved outcomes in TB
and HIV services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Holton Tel No: (044) 803-2700
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
118
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/150 : PHARMACIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R848 862 per annum
Grade 2: R917 634 per annum
Grade 3: R1 001 349 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Hermanus Hospital (Stationed at Hermanus CDC)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic qualification accredited with the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC
as a Pharmacist. Registration with Professional council: Registration with the
SAPC as a Pharmacist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as
Pharmacist with the SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration as Pharmacist with a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. -
Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience after registration as a
Pharmacist with the SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 6 years’
relevant experience after registration as Pharmacist with a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. -
Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years’ relevant experience after registration as
Pharmacist with the SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 14 years’
relevant experience after registration as Pharmacist with a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB/CI) driver’s licence.
Availability to work after hours, if and when required. Be able to work
independently and in a multi-disciplinary team. Willingness to perform relief
duties at pharmacies in the Sub-district. Willingness to travel to Sub-district
PHC facilities. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of National and
Provincial Health Policies and Pharmaceutical Acts and Laws. Ability to work
accurately under pressure and maintain a high standard of professionalism.
Ability and willingness to train staff. Good communication and interpersonal
skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Support with the efficient and cost-effective functioning of pharmaceutical
service in all Overstrand Sub District PHC sites including adherence to
statutory requirements and policies. Support to ensure provision of safe and
cost-effective pharmaceutical care to patients. Support and accept co -
responsibility for pharmaceutical supply management in Overstrand clinics by
ensuring safe and reliable procurement, storage, control, distribution and
discarding of pharmaceuticals using JAC and MEDSAS systems. Support the
pharmaceutical budget and expenditure to ensure compliance with financial
prescripts. Support with monitoring of Pharmacists Assistants to ensure
optimum productivity and people development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Nel Tel No: (028) 313-5700
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be required to undergo a competency assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within the Overberg District, for a period of 3 months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
119
POST 33/151 : SCIENTIST CANDIDATE (FORENSIC TOXICOLOGY)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
(4-Year Contract)
SALARY : R660 612 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, Observatory Forensic Pathology Institute
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: A Science Degree (Bsc)/ BTech or relevant
qualification. Registration with Professional council: Registration with
SACNASP as a Candidate Natural Scientist is compulsory upon appointment.
Experience: None after registration as a Candidate Natural Scientist. Inherent
requirements of the job: Knowledge and Competency in Analytical and
Technical skills and techniques (e.g. chromatography, mass spectrometry,
sample preparation, laboratory equipment and preparation). Sound
understanding of Scientific principles, quality systems (e.g. ISO/IEC17025),
and research methods. Proven proficiency in Computer Literacy, Microsoft
Office and statistical programs (e.g. SPSS). Ability to manage and analyze
scientific data. Ability to interpret scientific results. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to proficiently communicate clearly and discreetly in
person and in writing. Ability to testify in court proceedings on analytical work.
Quality assurance and control and ISO17025. Research and Scientific
Methods. Time management and productivity. Proactivity, adaptability and
accountability. Teamwork and collaboration. Attention to detail. Self-
management. Customer Focus and Responsiveness. Good Laboratory
Practice (GLP). Forensic Toxicology principles and applications. Biosafety level
II laboratory biosafety requirements.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient laboratory support. Effective and efficient technical and
scientific support. Effective and efficient administrative support, information
management, and resource management. Effective and efficient Quality
Management System (QMS) support. Effective and efficient Research and
Development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Davies Tel No: (021) 406-6026/6412) or Bronwen.Davies@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
Candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates will be subjected
to a security clearance prior to appointment. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be considered for
vacancies within the Observatory Forensic Pathology Institute for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/152 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (OPHTHALMOLOGY) (5/8TH)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R625 842 per annum
Grade 2: R714 096 per annum
Grade 3: R826 470 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Officer. Registration with Professional council: Registration with the
HPCSA as medical officer. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as
Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-
year relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
120
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of who is not required to perform Community Service as required
in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as
Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner
in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years relevant
experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign
Health Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3:
A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration as
Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the
job: Participate in the after-hours call system and perform outreach in the Paarl
Hospital ecosystem. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in Internal Medicine. Proven
experience in procedural skills appropriate to the field of Internal Medicine.
Proven knowledge of public health policies, guidelines and related prescript to
manage resources effectively. Good professional attitude. Communication
skills.
DUTIES : Provide comprehensive medical care to patients by diagnosing and treating
illnesses and other health conditions. Prescribe and manage treatment plans,
including medication and therapies. Maintain accurate and detailed patient
records. Refer patients to specialists or other healthcare providers when
necessary. Financial management by effective and efficient use of resources.
Complete the required CPD activities to maintain registration with the HPCSA.
Participate in training and educational programs for healthcare professionals.
Complete and submit required medical reports and documentation for legal and
administrative purposes. Uphold the reputation and integrity of the medical
profession.
ENQUIRIES : Dr C. Piek Tel No: (021) 860-2561 or email: cornelia.piek@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services for a
period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/153 : DENTIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (5/8TH POST)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R607 884 per annum
Grade 2: R714 096 per annum
Grade 3: R826 470 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Swellendam & Cape Agulhas Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South African (HPCSA) as
Dentist. Registration with Professional council: Registration with the HPSCA as
Dentist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Dentist with the
HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience after
registration as Dentist with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of 7 years
appropriate experience as Dentist after registration with the HPSCA as a
121
Dentist in respect of SA qualified employees. Minimum of 8 years relevant
experience after registration as Dentist with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade
3: Minimum of 12 years appropriate experience as Dentist after registration
with the HPSCA as a Dentist in respect of SA qualified employees. Minimum
of 13 years relevant experience after registration as Dentist with a recognised
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees,
of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South
Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid code B/EB/C1 driver’s license.
Willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to lead a small
dynamic team. Good communication skills.
DUTIES : Quality clinical and non-clinical patient care, able to implement effective dental
health programs in a cost-effective manner. Preventative planning and carrying
out of dental health programs. Able to successfully lead the dentistry
component – implement weekly meetings, facilitate training initiatives, give
feedback to direct supervisor, take responsibility for orders and stock, establish
equipment needs. Responsible for supervision of dental assistants and oral
hygienist. Provide an efficient administrative service regarding all clinical and
non-clinical matters: Maintain appropriate data bases of work done, complete
SPMS documents of all employees in the component, take responsibility for
any medico-legal matters with the component, manage referrals appropriately.
Provide guidance and leadership towards the design and implementation of
policies and SOPs within the component, and work towards the realisation of
strategic goals and objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Bothma Tel No: (028) 514-8400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be required to undergo a competency assessment. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Overberg District, for a
period of 3 months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/154 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME CO-ORDINATOR GRADE 1 (COMPREHENSIVE
HEALTH) (CBS AND FBS) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha Eastern Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and
midwife with basic Community Nursing Science. (This dispensation is only
applicable for posts of Clinical Programme Co-ordinator where it is an inherent
requirement of the post, incumbent to maintain registration with the SANC).
Registration with Professional council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse and Midwife with basic Community Nursing Science.
Experience: A minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy. Knowledge of all relevant
public service regulations and policies. Understanding public/private
partnerships. Understanding the District Health System. Project management
skills. Experience in Health programmes (women’s health, child health, mental
health, chronic diseases, infectious diseases).
DUTIES : Facilitate, co-ordinate, monitor and ensure adequate integration of all
Community Based Services within the PHC Programme in the delegated Sub-
district of the Khayelitsha Eastern Sub-structure. Establish, maintain and
participate in inter-professional and multi-disciplinary teamwork that promotes
effective and efficient Health Care to the communities of the delegated Sub-
district. Facilitate/support and assist in training, motivation and development of
delegated staff. Facilitate effective management and utilisation of resources in
accordance with relevant directives and legislation. Assist with NPO contract
management. Perform the operational management (Implementation support,
122
Monitoring &Evaluation, integration, development and adjustment) of health
programme technical support to the health facilities in a delegated sub-district.
Provide mentorship, support and develop capacity (training) at facility level as
relevant. Policy implementation and quality improvement initiatives as relevant
in the delegated sub district. Manage all appropriate special projects. Assisting
in ensuring effective delivery of the Integrated Services incl HAST, VMMC in
the health facilities and in the community by all the personnel and stakeholders
concerned within the Subdistrict.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Peton Tel No: (021) 360-4200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Metro Health Services, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post. Candidates will be subjected to a competency/practical
and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/155 : RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 TO 3 (RADIATION ONCOLOGY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R491 256 per annum
Grade 2: R575 250 per annum
Grade 3: R676 716 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Radiation Oncology (Therapy) Radiographer. Registration with Professional
council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Radiation Oncology (Therapy)
Radiographer. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA in
Radiation Oncology (Therapy) Radiographer in respect of RSA-qualified
employees. One-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Radiation Oncology (Therapy) Radiographer in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA in Radiation Oncology (Therapy)
Radiographer in respect of RSA-qualified employees. Minimum of 11 years
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in Radiation Oncology
(Therapy) Radiographer in respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
3: Minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA
in Radiation Oncology (Therapy) Radiographer in respect of RSA-qualified
employees. Minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA in Radiation Oncology (Therapy) Radiographer in respect of foreign
qualified employees of whom it is not required to perform Community Service
as required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Do an afterhours
on call service as rostered. Work late when deemed necessary to fulfil
operational requirements Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication skills (verbal and written). Good interpersonal skills. Good
computer skills especially with Ms Excel, MS PowerPoint, MS Word and Aria
Management System. Knowledgeable of radiotherapy protocols and standard
operating procedures.
DUTIES : Perform and assist with co-ordination of treatment or planning or CT
simulations or Quality Assurance and -related radiotherapy activities with RTTs,
Community Service and student RTTs to ensure effective patient throughout.
Safe handling of patients and assist in patient positioning and immobilization.
Accustomed with linear accelerators, orthovoltage treatments, Aria and Eclipse
planning systems. Ensure patients are accurately treated and/or planned,
according to Clinicians’ instructions and give administrative and information
support to the Chief. Quality Assurance of treatment or planning of patients,
ensuring optimal work is executed. Administer appropriate patient care and
perform quality assurance procedures on the treatment floor or planning.
Participate in continuing professional development and assist with in-service
training of Radiation Therapists, students and other visiting staff. Assist medical
physicists in the quality control of equipment. Monitor and keep stock of
consumables and assets within the section. Liaise with staff of all levels within,
123
and occasionally outside, the Division on issues pertaining to the assigned
patients Involvement in CPD activities and departmental lectures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Jaftha Tel No: (021) 404-4292
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be
considered for other similar posts within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period
of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/156 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING:
THEATRE)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
degree/diploma in nursing and midwifery) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse with Midwifery. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at
least 1 year, accredited with SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Operating Theatre Nursing. Registration with Professional council: Registration
with SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A
minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least
10 years of the period above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in
the specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in
Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating Theatre Nursing. Inherent
requirement of the job: Ability to work shifts during the day and night, weekends
and public holidays and overtime when required by supervisor. Expected to
function rotate within the Functional Business Unit of Theatre. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge and understanding of nursing legislation and
related legal and ethical nursing practices within a hospital environment.
Critical thinking and good interpersonal skills. Excellent clinical skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialised nursing care within the professional,
ethical and legal framework and work as part of the multi-disciplinary team.
Effective utilisation of all resources. Provide support to Nursing Services
ensuring quality productivity. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards
and self-development. Participation in training, including mentoring and
research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Vlok Tel No: (023) 348-1208
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : The pool of applicants will be considered for vacancies within Worcester
Regional Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post. No payment of any kind is required when
applying for this post. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a practical
test. Candidates who are not in possession of the required qualification will be
appointed into the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the
necessary qualification within a predetermined period of time. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
124
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating Theatre
Nursing with the South African Nursing Council.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/157 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING:
ORTHOPAEDICS) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic
nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year accredited with the SANC
in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Orthopaedic Nursing. Registration
with Professional council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Inherent requirement of the job: Will be required to work shifts, weekends and
public holidays. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic computer literacy.
Good written and verbal communication skills. Knowledge of relevant
legislation and policy related to the nursing speciality. Strong leadership and
interpersonal skills. Good organisational skills and the ability to function under
pressure.
DUTIES : Ensure quality patient care regarding the identification of nursing care needs,
the planning and implementation of nursing care plans and the education of
the nursing personnel as a Professional Nurse in the specific speciality clinical
area. Render and supervise specialised clinical nursing care and support
clinical staff with procedures within the specific clinical speciality unit. Utilize
human, material ad physical resources and development of self and others.
Display core values of the Department of Health and Wellness (WCG) on the
execution of duties while practicing within the legislation, regulations and
protocols applicable to the public service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Baartman Tel No: (021) 938-4055
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the required qualification will be appointed into the
general stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary qualification
within the predetermined period of time. Candidates who are not in possession
of stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will
only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who
apply for the first time for registration in the post-basic qualification in Medical
and Surgical Nursing Science: Orthopaedic Nursing.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/158 : CONTROL INDUSTRIAL TECHNICIAN (RADIO)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
degree in radio technology in the public safety environment or relevant
qualification. Experience: Appropriate experience in radio communications in
the public safety environment. Appropriate experience in the repair and
maintenance of Radio communications equipment, and the programming and
installations of radios into vehicles. Inherent requirements of the job: Physical
fitness for the maintenance and upgrade of high sites (equipment and
infrastructure). Candidate will be required to transport / carry heavy equipment
and tool up and down to high sites to effect repairs. Candidate will be required
to climb up and down radio towers and will have to go for high angle training.
Candidate will be required to travel both within and outside the province,
including overnight stays away from home. Candidate will be required to fly in
125
a helicopter up and down to high sites, thus the candidate must not be scared
of heights or flying. Good strategic management and planning skills. Ability to
travel within the province and work within a team. Ability to perform standby
duties and work overtime when required. The successful candidate will be
expected to operate a vehicle in 4x4 mode on mountainous terrain and perform
tyre repairs or replacements as necessary. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of ICASA regulations and the
Occupational Health and Safety Act. Extensive knowledge of the following:
Project Management; Technical design and analysis of radio fleet mapping and
programming; Computer-aided engineering applications for Microwave
development; Excellent leadership and managerial skills. The ability to manage
and supervise the repair of radio equipment in a radio technical environment.
Understanding of provincial supply chain policies and practices related to
equipment purchasing and management. Excellent communication skills
(written, verbal and presentation) and interpersonal skills with a customer focus
and responsiveness. Computer Literacy proficient. Technical report writing
skills in terms of radio infrastructure, technical consulting with radio industry
role players; Decision making skills.
DUTIES : Render radio technical services in the Western Cape province for EMS, and
manage Radio Subscriber, Tetra, and Digital radios. Procure equipment, spare
parts, and control stock, and ensure effective and accurate record-keeping of
assets. Administrate radio user interference and network affiliation. Manage
Emergency Communication Centres radio interface communication, research
and development and repeater High sites upgrade and maintenance. Manage
service contracts and maintenance projects. Manage and carry out
maintenance, repairs, routine inspection and evaluation of radio equipment
and high sites. Manage, plan and organize maintenance schedules and radio
infrastructure services. Attend meetings and communicate effectively with
clinical and other personnel as well as private sector employees. Ensure
effective and efficient Financial Management and Line Management functions
of the unit. Administrate radio user interference and network affiliation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Wylie Tel No: (021) 508-4519
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates are
subjects to a practical assessment. The pool of applications will be considered
for vacancies within Emergency Medical Services, for a period of three months
from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/159 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (SYSTEM
MANAGER-BILLING)
Directorate: Health Information Technology
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office; HIS Application Support Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience of hospital administrative and
billing procedures. Appropriate experience working on AR-Billing system.
Appropriate working experience and knowledge of the Billing system.
Appropriate experience in training and supporting system users. Appropriate
knowledge/experience of Hospital Fees and patient administration policies will
be advantageous. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s licence.
Willingness to travel within PGWC health institutions. Willingness to work
overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication and
interpersonal skills. Ability to provide user training and support. Accurate data
capturing skills. Computer literacy, including MS Office and MS Project.
Knowledge of Accounts Receivable System, Clinicom, JAC, Materials
Management and other HIS modules. Understanding of Business Process Re-
engineering. Understanding of system maintenance and enhancement
process flow. Understanding and developing quality control processes. Proven
ability to work in a team environment.
DUTIES : Manage and control the Billing System at all hospitals in the Western Cape.
Maintain and update master files, documentation, access control and print
management. Manage and ensure update of annual or ad-hoc tariff increase.
Liaise with HIS management, hospital IT, and other stakeholders on billing
126
matters. Provide end-user support and resolve system problems. Update and
maintain user manuals and billing system procedures. Develop quality control
script for system changes and manage test process with formal outcome
reporting. Develop system release notice for system changes and ensure user
awareness. Identify training needs and provide training to users and core
trainers. Assist with data quality assurance. Manage compliance of system
release logs and exception reports. Drive business process re-engineering in
billing-related areas across hospitals. Support development and administration
of new billing modules. Manage Billing System Controllers. Collaborate with
the Finance billing team to ensure compliance of system to hospital fee and
patient admin policy and manage new enhancement requests to deployment
where accepted. Provide ad hoc support to the Deputy Director: eHealth
Systems.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Maharaj Tel No: (021) 938-6513
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to undergo competency assessments/proficiency
test.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/160 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COMPLIANCE MANAGER (ADVISOR)
Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Financial Accounting, Auditing or related field. Experience:
Appropriate experience in the preparation of Annual and Interim financial
statements as well as an audit environment. Appropriate experience in
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and/or Modified Cash
Standards (MCS) and/or Generally Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP).
Appropriate external and/ or Audit experience. Inherent requirements of the
job: A valid code B/EB manual driver’s licence and willingness to travel
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Completed SAICA Articles and/ or
appropriate experience in an audit environment. Advanced computer literacy
(Excel spread sheets, report writing and drafting of Word documents, MS
PowerPoint presentations). Knowledge of BAS, LOGIS, and SCM will be an
added advantage. Strong people management skills and ability to work in a
multi-disciplinary team. Strong technical financial skills, including, experience
in the audit and accounting environment, preparation of financial reports and
the ability to understand, analyse and monitor financial prescripts. Experience
in the compilation of Annual and/or Interim Financial Statements (AFS/IFS),
accrual accounting principles, the Modified Cash Standard (MCS) and/or
Generally Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP) Standards and/or
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Experience in applying
auditing standards. Experience in data analytics and excel template
development.
DUTIES : Responsible for liaising between Department of Health & Wellness and Auditor-
General. Evaluate institutional responses during the audit and ensure timely
feedback to the Auditor-General during the entire audit process iro requests for
information, communication of audit findings including SCOPA reports.
Maintain and update the audit improvement plan (SCM and Finance) and
report periodically on level of implementation of institutional remedial action.
Analyse and advise on changes in the Departmental Financial Reporting
Framework Guide relating to relevant disclosure notes. Analyse and conduct
training sessions in respect of the relevant MCS, GRAP and IFRS when
required. Compile and develop procedures and policies iro AFS/IFS
requirements. Scrutinise Annual Report and related documents for
consistency. Engage with Auditor-General and other stakeholders. Data
analytics of financial and non-financial information. Evaluate institutional
responses and inputs during the preparation of the AFS and IFS. Ensure the
updating of management information with regards to interim and final external
audits. Ensure the Human Resource Management functions of personnel in
the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MN Davids Tel No: (021) 483-3176
127
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/161 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE (FINANCIAL STATEMENTS)
Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Financial Accounting, Auditing or related field. Experience:
Appropriate experience in the preparation of Annual and Interim financial
statements as well as an audit environment. Appropriate experience in
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and/or Modified Cash
Standards (MCS). Inherent requirement of the job: A valid code B/EB manual
driver’s licence and willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of BAS, LOGIS, and SCM will be an added advantage. Advanced
computer literacy (Excel spread sheets, report writing and drafting of Word
documents, MS PowerPoint presentations). Strong people management skills
and ability to work in a multi-disciplinary team. Strong technical financial skills,
including, experience in the audit and accounting environment. Preparation of
financial reports and the ability to understand, analyse and monitor financial
prescripts. Experience in the compilation of Annual and/or Interim Financial
Statements (AFS/IFS), accrual accounting principles, the Modified Cash
Standard (MCS) and/or Generally Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP)
Standards and/or International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).
Experience in data analytics and excel template development.
DUTIES : Responsible for the compilation of the AFS and IFS of the Department of Health
& Wellness. Analyse and advise on changes in the Departmental Financial
Reporting Framework Guide relating to relevant disclosure notes. Analyse and
conduct training sessions in respect of the relevant MCS, GRAP and IFRS
when required. Compile and develop procedures and policies iro AFS/IFS
requirements. Scrutinise Annual Report and related documents for
consistency. Engage with Auditor-General and other stakeholders. Data
analytics of financial and non-financial information. Evaluate institutional
responses and inputs during the preparation of the AFS and IFS. Ensure the
updating of management information with regards to interim and final external
audits. Ensure the Human Resource Management functions of personnel in
the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MN Davids Tel No: (021) 483-3176
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/162 : ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGER: CORPORATE SERVICES
Garden Route District
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Alan Blyth Hospital & Kannaland Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience and knowledge of the
management of support services with reference to people management,
finance and supply chain management and facility management and
supervision. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid driver’s (Code B/EB/C1)
license. Willingness to work extra hours and be on standby. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Advanced computer literacy (MS Word, Excel). Good
communication skills (written and verbal). Strong leadership, managerial,
organisational, strategic, operational and contingency planning skills.
Independent decision-making, problem-solving and interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Efficient and effective strategic planning of the corporate services at Alan Blyth
Hospital and Kannaland Sub District with support to PHC Services.
Management of personnel administration, human resource development &
training, disciplinary procedures, labour relations, recruitment and selection
processes and staff performance assessment. Finance and supply chain
management. Management of hospital fees, admissions and medical records.
128
Effectively manages all facility-based support services and oversees
maintenance requirements. Support to Medical Manager and management
team.
ENQUIRIES : Dr C Dreyer Tel No: (044) 203 - 7203
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three months from the
date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/163 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPORT SERVICES (ENVIRONMENTAL
HYGIENE SERVICES)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
degree. Experience: Appropriate experience that focus on the Key Result
Areas of the post. Appropriate supervisory experience. Inherent requirement of
the job: Perform Standy duties. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent
computer skills (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and Access). Excellent
report writing skills and the ability to motivate and train staff. Leadership,
conflict resolution and problem-solving skills. Sound knowledge and
understanding of Health Care Risk Waste Regulation, 2013, HR Policies,
Disciplinary Code and Procedure.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient Human Resource management e.g. recruitment and
selection process, Performance Management System, Leave management,
disciplinary procedures, grievance procedures, Project Management, Training
and Development of staff. Effective Management of the Environmental Hygiene
Services of the Hospital which comprise of the following areas; Cleaning,
Porters, Government Motor Transport, Death Administration; Waste
Management; Messenger Services; Specimen services; and Pest Control.
Manage and oversee Contract Management i.e. Cleaning, Waste management
and any other adhoc contract services. Responsible for the FBU budget within
EHS and to provide effective support to the Deputy Director, Support Services.
Responsible to ensure compliance with regards to Ideal Hospital Standards,
Infection Prevention Control and Internal Policies and Practices.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R de Jager Tel No: (021) 404-3405
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/164 : CLINICAL TECHNOLOGIST GRADE 1 TO 3: CARDIOLOGY (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Clinical Technologist: Cardiology. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with HPCSA as a Clinical Technologist: Cardiology. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA in Clinical Technology in
respect of RSA qualified employees. One-year relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA in Clinical Technology in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience
after registration with HPCSA in Clinical Technology in respect of SA qualified
employees. Minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration with
129
the HPCSA in Clinical Technology in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South
Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration
with the HPCSA in Clinical Technology in respect of RSA qualified employees.
Minimum of 21 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Clinical Technology in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform community service as required in South Africa. Inherent
requirement of the job. After hours service. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good communication skills (verbal and written). Experience in
Echocardiography, Cardiac Catheterization and Cardiac Pacing. Appropriate
experience in clinical technology within the filed of cardiology including in-
service training at a registered training facility. Above average academic
record, work record and managerial abilities. Ability to work independently,
without supervision and work within a group with all levels of staff.
DUTIES : To perform high quality and efficient cardiology service by providing specialized
clinical technology support in all areas of non-invasive and invasive cardiology.
Required to work in the various specialized areas in the unit on a rotational
basis (Cardiac catheterization laboratory, pacemaker clinic, echocardiography
laboratory, Holter analysis). Delivery of 24-hour standby service (required to
work after hours, during weekends and public holidays).
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Govender Tel No: (021) 404 4094/5
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/165 : RADIOGRAPHER: GRADE 1 TO 3 (DIAGNOSTIC)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Diagnostic Radiographer. Registration with Professional council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer. Experience: Grade 1: None
after registration with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer in respect of
RSA qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer in respect of
SA qualified employees. A Minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant
experience after registration with the as a Diagnostic Radiographer in respect
of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 21 years’ relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Must work shifts.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of theatre, mobile, fluoroscopy
and general radiography protocols. Appropriate experience in a busy general
department with knowledge of radiation protection, quality assurance and
equipment safety pertaining to radiography. Knowledge of Patient Archiving
130
and Communication Systems. Computer literacy (MS Windows, Word, Excel
and PowerPoint). Good interpersonal skills, the ability to work under pressure
and independently and in a team
DUTIES : Be responsible for the provision of a patient-centred radiographic imaging
service over a 24-hour period, including risk management. Ensure optimal care
of equipment, quality assurance and use of suitable radiation protection.
Identify and perform the most appropriate diagnostic images of high quality, be
responsible for self-development as well as training of staff and students.
Provide support to the Chief and Assistant Director regarding day to day
activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Behardien-Peters Tel No: (021)-404-4187
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be
considered for other similar posts within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period
of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/166 : SPEECH THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: An appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Speech Therapist or Speech Therapist and Audiologist. Registration with
Professional council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Speech Therapist or
Speech Therapist and Audiologist. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with the HPCSA as Speech Therapist in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Speech Therapist of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to
perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum
of 10 years' relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Speech
Therapist in respect of SA qualified employees. A Minimum of 11 years' relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Speech Therapist in respect
of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform community
service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years' relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Speech Therapist in respect
of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 21 years' relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as Speech Therapist in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service, as
required in South Africa. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent
communication skills. Good report writing, interpersonal, organising,
leadership and planning skills, as well as computer literacy. Good and sound
knowledge of appropriate national and provincial legislation and policies. Ability
to work independently and in a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Render tertiary-level diagnostic and therapeutic communication and dysphagia
services in accordance with patient needs and professional standards. Perform
and analyse specialized assessments (such as VFSS, FEES, stroboscopy) to
inform management. Manage resources optimally and effectively. Participate
in the multi-disciplinary team environment both within and outside hospital.
Participate in and present In-service training and Continuing Education.
Perform administrative tasks related to the speech and language service within
the hospital.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Gaskin Tel No: (021) 938 4825/5090
131
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates
may be subjected to a practical assessment. “Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for a change in
registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/167 : CASE MANAGER
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year health related
National Diploma/Degree or equivalent registrable with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) or South African Nursing Council (SANC).
Experience: Appropriate experience preferably at hospital level, alternatively at
a medical scheme or in a clinical environment. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to link patient diagnosis (ICD10 Coding) with
procedure codes. Knowledge of the UPFS and ability to perform clinical audits
of patient accounts. Knowledge of the Medical Scheme Act 131 of 1998 and
relevant PMB Regulations. Excellent verbal and written communication skills.
Excellent interpersonal skills and the ability to act independently, objectively
and with confidence and collaboratively as part of the healthcare team.
Computer literate (Microsoft Office/Teams). Ability to work under pressure,
handle a high work volume and meet strict deadlines. Strong critical thinking
and problem-solving abilities.
DUTIES : Ensure that pre-admission and pre-authorisation information is accurate and in
accordance with hospital and funder procedures. Manage and implement Case
Management policies, protocols and procedures timeously. Provide training
and workshops when required. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
such as Funders and Managed care organisations with regards to treatment of
patient, MHC policies, protocols, optimal fund utilisation, clinical information,
diagnostic and procedural coding. -Provide complete and accurate clinical
updates and discharge information to Funders. Conduct clinical audits of
patients’ accounts and ensure clinical auditing of the account controllers are
accurate. Ensure accurate, specific and comprehensive clinical coding.
Complete queries/requests of the Medical Scheme follow-up section timeously.
Queries will include drafting of motivational letters where possible, obtaining
authorisation, concurrent review of patient clinical information, i.e. length of
stay, level of care, clinical coding and PMB. When handling or investigating a
debtor query, ensure the account is accurately billed. Manage the workflow and
supervise personnel of the Case Management department. Participate in
interdisciplinary team meetings to optimize patient care. Provide estimations
for all patient classifications. Provide Case management statistics on a weekly
/ monthly basis.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Jooste Tel No: (021) 938-4140
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. This post does
not form part of any Occupation Specific Dispensation. Shortlisted candidates
may be subjected to a practical test
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/168 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Ceres Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate supervisory experience. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Public finance management act National
132
treasury regulations, Provincial treasury instructions, SCM and financial
delegations and accounting officer system finance Instructions. Experience in
financial year end reporting procedures (AFS/IFS). Practical experience of
LOGIS and BAS. Good written and verbal communication skills. Good
management and supervisory skills. Ability to work independently and as part
of a team. Experience in management of debts and loss control processes.
Computer skill (Power Point, Advance Excel, Microsoft word. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to
travel.
DUTIES : Responsible for overall supply chain management functions which includes
demand, acquisition, logistic, assets and Disposal management, ensure
timeous and accurate compilation of monthly, quarterly finance and SCM
reporting (Note 41&42, Bas and Logis Reconciliation is done), compile report
for IFS/AFS disclosure inputs. Oversee expenditure, revenue, patient
administration and ensure that Suppliers are paid within 30 days. Functioning
of patient administration and revenue component. Ensure effective and
efficient assets and warehouse management procedures are implemented to
ensure optimal utilization of resources and timeous distribution of stock to end-
users. Perform secretariat/advisory functions in the quotation committee
meeting. Perform system controller functions and all system approval on EPS
and LOGIS are done in accordance with applicable delegation of authority if
applicable. Management of staff including staff performance, R&S process,
training, disciplinary process and general support of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Wessels Tel No: (023) 316-9602
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short-listed
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within Ceres Hospital, for a period of three months
from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/169 : CASE MANAGER
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year health-related
National Diploma or Degree, registrable with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa (HPCSA) or South African Nursing Council (SANC). Experience:
Appropriate experience in Case Management, Medical Aid environment and/or
Revenue Generation. Inherent Requirement of the Job: The candidate must be
willing to work overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good knowledge of
the Uniform Patient Fees Schedule (UPFS) and/or other tariff structures;
Managed Health Care or Hospital Information Systems and Electronic Data
Interchange (EDI). Knowledge of the Medical Schemes Act 131 of 1998 and
application of Prescribed Minimum Benefit (PMB) legislation (Chronic Disease
List and Diagnostic Treatment Pairs). Experience in ICD-10 code assignment
and linking patient diagnoses with procedural codes. Proficiency in Excel,
Microsoft Word and web-based medical aid programs. Excellent
communication, conflict management, interpersonal and leadership skills.
DUTIES : Perform case management functions (authorisation, concurrent and
retrospective reviews, discharge planning, liaison with relevant role-players
and third parties to monitor utilisation). Provide quotations to H2, H3 and
Foreign patients. Assist with ICD-10 code assignment and identification of PMB
conditions. Manage and implement case management policies, protocols and
procedures in the hospital (including onsite skills development and training for
relevant role-players). Conduct clinical audits of patient accounts (medical aids,
state departments such as RAF and COIDA) to ensure accuracy of invoices
regarding ICD-10 codes, UPFS procedure codes and resource utilisation. Offer
support for hospital account queries and assist with follow-up on outstanding
medical scheme balances via Medikredit EDI reports. Supervise staff and liaise
with role-players on case management matters.
ENQUIRIES : H J van Graan Tel No: (021) 658-5007
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
133
NOTE : This post does not form part of any Occupation-Specific Dispensation. No
payment of any kind is required when applying. Short-listed candidates may be
required to complete a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/170 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE (PATIENT
ADMINISTRATION AND HOSPITAL FEES AND MEDICAL RECORDS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year Diploma/Degree.
Experience: Appropriate experience in Revenue (Hospital Fees and Patient
Administration) and Medical Records. Appropriate supervisory experience in
the Revenue (Hospital Fees and Patient Administration) and Medical Records
field. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in Microsoft Office (MS
Word, Excel, Outlook, Access). Workable knowledge of AR System, Clinicom,
BAS and JAC as well as knowledge of UPFS, Chapter 18, PFMA, handling of
state money, patient valuables (Chapter 6) and patient records management
and all circulars, instructions and policies related to the above. Good
supervisory, interpersonal, leadership and communication skills and a strong
sense of responsibility and willingness to travel and work after hours when
required. Good organizational and administrative skills and the ability to
function in a team and under pressure.
DUTIES : Manage Patient Administration Services and Medical Records with the aim of
improving data quality and patient information and records according to
Finance instructions, circulars, and policies. Manage the Fees Department and
ensure implementation and compliance with relevant Finance Instructions,
Revenue notices, SOP’s and PFMA as well as conducting and attending
meetings and forums. Effective management of Revenue debt and budget
control. Ensure completion and submission of monthly reports and provide
feedback to management. Ensure effective Human Resources Management,
which includes the management of disciplinary procedures as well as
supervision and evaluation of personnel under your control.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Kombrink Tel No: (044) 802-4332
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/171 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PEOPLE MANAGEMENT
(RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate Human Resource Management: Recruitment
and Selection experience. Appropriate supervisory experience. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Extensive knowledge of HR Policies, procedures, practices
relevant to Recruitment and Selection and various OSD's implementation.
Communication, interpersonal and problem-solving skills. Computer literacy
with proficiency in MS Word and Excel.
DUTIES : Ensure effective and efficient management of the Recruitment and Selection
section and the correct implementation of HR policies and circulars to the
section. Investigate and respond to queries as well as assist and advise in
respect of grievances with regards to Recruitment and Selection. Ensure
proper safekeeping of all documents. Supervision and development of
subordinate. Render support to supervisor and colleagues when needed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Alexander Tel No: (021) 404 2271
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a competency test. The pool of applicants will be considered
for other similar posts within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
134
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/172 : SOCIAL WORKER GRADE 1 TO 4
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R325 200 per annum
Grade 2: R397 119 per annum
Grade 3: R477 564 per annum
Grade 4: R585 441 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Bachelor’s Degree in Social
Work or equivalent qualification. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP) as Social Worker. Experience: Grade 1: No experience. Grade 2:
A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience in Social Work after registration
as a Social Worker with the South African Council for Social Service
Professions. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate experience in Social
Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions. Grade 4: A minimum of 30 years appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions. Inherent requirement of the job:
Valid code (B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to travel. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in Microsoft Office package (MS word,
Excel, and Power point) and e-mail (Outlook) Knowledge and insight of
relevant legislation and policy related to social work service in the public sector.
Good report writing, interpersonal, leadership and planning skills. Ability to
work independently and within an interdisciplinary team to achieve functional
outcomes for the clients. Knowledge and understanding of illness and disease,
human behaviour, and social systems within a hospital setting.
DUTIES : Provision of comprehensive, client centered clinical social work services in the
hospital setting, with regards to care, support and protection of vulnerable
individuals, groups, families and communities, to ensure safe discharge plans.
Deliver an accountable service through the application of Social Work
administrative processes. Effective networking with the multi-disciplinary team
as well as relevant external role players. Keep up to date with new
developments in social work and welfare fields. Utilize and manage resources.
Support social auxiliary workers and volunteers. Participate in training and
development of staff. Assist with the achievement of the departmental and
organizational goals. Perform all the administrative functions required of the
job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Vlok Tel No: (021) 850-4702
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. No
payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a
period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/173 : EMS EMERGENCY CALL CENTRE SUPERVISOR (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Centre (X2 Posts)
135
Central Karoo Centre (X1 Post)
Cape Winelands Centre (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate (Grade 12) or equivalent.
Experience: Appropriate experience in the Emergency Call Centre
environment (Minimum of 5 continuous years of experience with call taking and
dispatching). -Appropriate previous supervisory experience. Inherent
requirement of the job: Ability to work shifts and overtime, as needed.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Competency in the CAD (CareMonX)
system. Good leadership, communication, and interpersonal skills. Good
planning, leading, organizing and control abilities. Ability to work well under
pressure. Computer Literacy with MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint, Outlook
and Internet.
DUTIES : Efficient, effective, and quality management of the Shift or Component in the
CTCC. Cost Effective Management of allocated overtime needs. Effective
Human Resource Management, Training and Development and the
management of Labour Relations matters. Supervision and Management of all
Administrative Requirements. Effective Communication and Liaison with
internal and external clients. Support to colleagues and the CT Centre
Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Masitho Tel No: (021) 932-1966 – Cape Town
Ms BA Dees Tel No: (023) 346-6032 – Cape Winelands
Ms M Arries Tel No: (044) 805-5070 – Central Karoo.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Emergency Medical
Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post. -Shortlisted candidates will be expected
to undergo a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/174 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING) (X2
POSTS)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Alan Blyth Hospital, Ladismith, Oudtshoorn & Kannaland Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with Professional council: Registration with the SANC as
a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willing to work shifts, including weekends, public
holidays and night duty. Willingness to rotate to other wards in the facility and
to work at the clinics in the Sub-district when needed. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Basic computer skill in Ms Word. The ability to function
independently under pressure, as well as in a multi-disciplinary team to ensure
good patient care. Knowledge of Nursing Practices, Infection Prevention
Control, control measures and practices. Excellent communication skills (both
written and verbal).
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice or patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria, and
indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and health
care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health
care. Maintain constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human, material, and physical resources efficiently and
effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Laubscher Tel No: (028) 551-1010
136
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.”
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/175 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING) (X2
POSTS)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Ceres Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with Professional council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years of appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work in other wards inside hospital. Will
be required to work shifts, weekends and public holidays. Willingness to work
overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal,
communication skills. Sound scientific knowledge of nursing. Computer literacy
– able to capture and interpret relevant data. Ability to work independently and
in a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Provision of quality basic nursing patient centred care in a hospital setting.
Provision of optimal, holistic clinical and elementary nursing care with set
standards and within a professional/legal framework. Effective utilisation of
human and financial resources, Information management and support
services. Improving quality of health services. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Scholtz Tel No: (023) 316-9600
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A practical test
may form part of the selection process. Candidates who are not in possession
of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates
will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application
for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). “The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Ceres Hospital, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
137
POST 33/176 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING:
CHILDREN’S WARD)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R369 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Hermanus Hospital, Overstrand Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Registration with Professional council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration
as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum
of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of
20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirements
of the job: Willingness to work shifts, night duty, overtime, public holidays and
weekends. Relieve and rotate in all areas of the hospital. A valid driver's licence
(Code B/EB/C1). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic computer literacy
(MS Office). Ability to function independently, as well as in a multi-disciplinary
team to ensure good patient care. Ability to communicate effectively.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing care
plans, laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health care. Implement
standards, practices, criteria, and indicators for quality assurance. Utilize
human, material, and physical resources efficiently and effectively. Maintain
constructive and supporting working relationships with nursing and other
stakeholders. Management of information.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Klaasen Tel No: (028) 312-1166
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Overberg District, for a period of 3 months
from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/177 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL) (FEMALE
/CHILDREN'S WARD) (X2 POSTS)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Vredendal Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Registration
with Professional council: Registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in
nursing after registration at SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing.
Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in
nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General
Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts,
weekends, public holidays and night duty as well as overtime when necessary.
Ability to work in a high stress environment and willingness to rotate between
Wards. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to function/make decisions
138
independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good communication,
interpersonal relationships, exceptional leadership and conflict resolution skills.
Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, and Outlook. Knowledge of relevant
nursing legislation, policies and protocols of the Department of Health, Western
Cape.
DUTIES : Provide direction/supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan to
ensure quality optimal, patient care. Implement standards, practices, criteria
and indicators for quality nursing practice. Practice nursing and health care in
accordance with the nursing and health care laws and regulations to protect
patients. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and
members of the health and social care teams. Efficient and cost-effective
utilization of human-, material- and physical resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr LK Wagenaar Tel No: (027) 213 2039
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Matzikama Sub-district, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/178 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE / ADMIN
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject. Experience:
Appropriate experience in a Finance environment. Appropriate experience in
LOGIS and BAS systems. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Written and
verbal communication skills. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
Outlook), numeracy and mathematical skills. Knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act, Provincial Treasury Instructions and National Treasury
Regulations. Good interpersonal and organisational skills and the ability to
function under pressure and meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Capturing of creditors’ payments on LOGIS and BAS. Capturing of journals and
debts on BAS. Provide an efficient and effective financial service in line with
relevant financial instructions. Maintain effective record keeping of invoices and
orders received on database and perform other general office administration
duties. Filing of payments and journals. Provide efficient support to suppliers
by reconciling account statements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PD Rossouw Tel No: (021) 834-5896
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The
pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services for a period of three months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/179 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HRM (SPMS) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Performance Management.
139
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and experience of PERSAL
Computer skills (Ms Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint) Sound knowledge of
SPMS and PERMIS. Able to work independently. Able to deal with conflict.
Good interpersonal, verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Assist with the administration of the Performance Management System of
Tygerberg Hospital. Implement Pay Progression, payments, and grade
progression. Provide advice and assistance with the administration of SPMS,
and PERMIS. Co-ordinate and monitor moderating committee meetings.
Support to supervisor and staff members in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MH Marcus Tel No: (021) 938-4906
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/180 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (X2 POSTS)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Beaufort West Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Financial Management and Supply Chain. Inherent requirement of the job:
Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge and practical experience of the LOGIS System. Sound knowledge
of the Basic Accounting System (BAS) and all applicable government
legislation. Computer literacy (MS, Excel and Word). Sound knowledge of
PFMA, National and Provincial Treasury Instructions. Good communication
skills.
DUTIES : Reconcile (clear) asset and liability accounts on the Basic Accounting System
(BAS). Debt Management on BAS. Do LOGIS & BAS Transactions (Payments
& Journals) within set timeframes. Reconciliation of Supplier Statements and
applicable correspondence in that regard. Handle supplier queries and give
timeous feedback. Financial Reporting. Filing and Safekeeping of
documentation. Travel & Subsistence Claims.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Abbott Tel No: (023) 414 8200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A practical test
may form part of the interview process. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Central Karoo District for a period
of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/181 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (WARDS)
Overberg District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Swellendam Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administrative experience in a health environment
with experience with HECTIS & CLINICOM System. Inherent requirement of
the job: Willingness to work overtime when required. Must be willing to workday
duty, weekends and public holidays. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of HECTIS & Clinicom. Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel)
and knowledge of record keeping procedures. Good communication skills.
Ability to accept accountability and responsibility and to work independently
and unsupervised.
DUTIES : Patient administration including admission and discharge of patients and liaise
with all clients and ensure follow-up appointments on Clinicom system. Update
patient information on systems. Record and collect patient statistics, daily,
weekly and monthly. Clinicom and other PGWC system computer duties,
including folder and x-ray control. Manage material resources, assets and
order ward stock via LOGIS. Effective support to the nursing and operational
140
manager, supervisor and colleagues. Maintain patient confidentiality on
information.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Vermeulen Tel No: (028) 514-8419
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/182 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R228 312 per annum
CENTRE : Office of the Chief Directorate (Sub-directorate: Finance)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as passed subject. Experience: Appropriate
experience in Supply Chain Management. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literate in Microsoft Office. Knowledge of Supply Chain Management
processes, PFMA and AOS. Knowledge of LOGIS and EPS. Ability to
effectively communicate (verbal & written).
DUTIES : Demand and acquisition management of goods and services. Assist with the
preparation of inputs for the annual financial statements (AFS) and ensuring
audit compliance. Advertising requests on the EPS and conducting SCM
evaluations according to SCM prescripts. Prepare batches, draft minutes for
QC and vetting committee. Placing of orders with suppliers and maintaining
accurate filing systems. Address supplier and user queries. Monthly reporting.
Perform relief duties within SCM component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S Ngodwana Tel No: (021) 815-8817
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant Administration Clerk: Support
(Supply Chain Management) posts within the Chief Director Emergency &
Clinical Services Support, for a period of 3 months from date of advert provided
that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be subjected to a
written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/183 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (CLINICAL MANAGER)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R228 312 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services: Metro Services (Pinelands)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Senior certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administrative experience in line with the duties.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code 8 or Code 10 Driver’s Licence.
Excellent computer literacy in the MS Office package. Ability to travel between
EMS districts and external stakeholders. Willingness to assist with
departmental logistics and event planning. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good interpersonal and organizational skills. Ability to function independently
and within a team environment.
DUTIES : Render administrative support to Departmental head and other Management.
Efficient Office Management, filing and record keeping and sound
administrative skills. Diary management of Manager. Arranging of meetings
and minute taking. Compiling of documents needed for the meeting. Effective
administrative support to other departments. Ensure effective and efficient
control of equipment in component. Handling of all telephonic and email
enquiries from internal and external stakeholders. Compiling and typing of
submissions and letters. Assist with projects within the department. Receiving
of confidential documents and the distribution thereof. Screen necessary
documents to determine actions or information required. Procurement of goods
and services for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Dr K Meyer Tel No: (021) 508-4517
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
141
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates are
subjects to a practical assessment. The pool of applications will be considered
for vacancies within Emergency Medical Services, for a period of three months
from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/184 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT
Directorate: Information Technology
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (Tygerberg Hospital: HIS Application Centre)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in administration. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Numerical and Financial Competence. Analytical and
Problem-Solving Skills. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
Outlook, and Teams). Information systems management skills. Analytical and
problem-solving skills. Excellent communication and people skills. Basic
database development and maintenance skills. Good organizing skills.
Technical and IT skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for Administrative Support by provide high-level administrative
support to managers, ensuring seamless office operations. Ensuring functional
Diary Management, organize appointments, meetings, and events, managing
time effectively and resolving scheduling conflicts. Coordinate meetings,
prepare agendas, take minutes, and distribute materials to stakeholders.
Travel and Accommodation Management: Organize travel arrangements,
including flight bookings, accommodation, and travel claims. Financial
Administration: Track expenditure, assist with purchase orders, and support
procurement activities. Human Resource and Contract Administration: Assist
with recruitment coordination, onboarding, and contract management.
Reporting and Presentations: Support the preparation of reports,
presentations, and other documentation. SharePoint Administration: Manage
documents and ensure correct access and organization within SharePoint.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Matasane, Email: Cally.Matasane@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/185 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE (DEBT AND BOOKKEEPING
ADMINISTRATION)
Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience
BAS systems and working in a Debt & Bookkeeping Administration.
Environment. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in Microsoft
applications (MS Word and Excel). Good interpersonal relations,
communication and organizational skills. Knowledge of the Basic Accounting
System (BAS). Knowledge of Clearing of Assets and Liabilities. Knowledge of
Debt Management. Knowledge of financial transactions in asset and liability
accounts. Knowledge of the Public Financial Management Act (PFMA),
National and Provincial Treasury Regulations. Good communication skills.
DUTIES : Ensure the clearing of suspense accounts on monthly basis. Ensure that all
debts are registered and accounted for. Ensure new debt files a taken on and
followed up adequately. Compile CMI re on a monthly & Quarterly Basis.
Dealing with debt & bookkeeping related queries. Requesting and analytical
interpretation of financial data. Provide inputs i.r.o weekly/monthly & yearly
reporting. Ensuring Petty Cash is managed effectively. Record keeping/safe-
guarding of documents.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. P Kula Tel No: (021) 483-4839
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
142
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Applicants will
be subjected to a competency/ proficiency test.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/186 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE
Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town, Office base: Stikland Compliance Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or with
experience/competencies that focuses on the Key Performance Areas (KRA’s)
of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in Finance and Supply Chain
Management. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code B/EB (manual)
drivers’ licence. Willing to travel and spend long periods away from the home
while placed at Health Institutions in the Western Cape. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of computerised Management Financial
systems. Knowledge of Supply Chain Management: Demand Planning,
Warehouse Management, Asset Management, Acquisition Management.
Knowledge of Accounting: Payments, Clearing of Ledger Accounts.
DUTIES : Process LOGIS and BAS payments. Process orders. Perform warehouse
functions. Procuring and accounting of assets. Effect transactions on
LOGIS/Syspro system.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Vermeulen, email: Eleanor.Vermeulen@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/187 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
West Coast District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : West Coast District Office, Malmesbury
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate relevant working experience in Information
Management, Health Information Systems and end-user systems support.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness
to travel extensively. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate working
knowledge of current Information Management Computer software systems
(PHCIS, CLINICOM, Sinjani, Ideal Health facility, Tier.net, EDR.web etc.)
utilized by the Department of Health. Good numerical, data analysis,
presentation and training skills. Advanced computer skills in MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Ensure effective and efficient data capturing, verification and validations
adhered to. Routine and quarterly data quality monitoring. Compilation and
submission of data within timelines Effective administrative support services.
Assist to compile accurate reliable data reports. Maintain an effective filing
system. Provide information management feedback. Ensure effective and
efficient office administration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Cottee Tel No: (022) 814 0304
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/188 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: REGISTRY
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 312 per annum
CENTRE : Southern/Western Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate registry experience. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Office, Outlook). Ability to function
independently as well as in a multi-disciplinary team. Good planning and
organizational skills. Good communication and Interpersonal skills.
143
DUTIES : Render an effective and efficient Registry service for People Management.
Control of Archive, including disposal of files/records. Handling of telephonic
enquiries. Render optimal support to supervisor. Effective and efficient
utilization of all resources. Perform related administrative tasks as instructed
by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Z Mnyazi Tel No: (021) 202-0967
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/189 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Staff Nurse.
Registration with Professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Staff
Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Staff Nurse. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work
shifts, public holidays, after-hours, night duty and weekend cover.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work independently and under
pressure.
DUTIES : Provide quality basic nursing care according to procedures and policy. Provide
basic nursing care under the direct and indirect supervision of the Registered
Professional Nurse. Create a safe and therapeutic environment for patients
and the public. Development and Implementation of basic patient care plans.
Maintain professional growth, ethical standards and self-development.
Accurate recordkeeping and effective utilization of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Baartman Tel No: (021) 938-4055
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the South African Nursing Council (including individuals who
must apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/190 : HOUSEKEEPING SUPERVISOR (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std7). Experience: Appropriate housekeeping experience in
a hospital environment. Appropriate supervisory experience. Inherent
requirements of the job: Ability to perform physical tasks, e.g., lifting heavy
equipment. Willingness to work shifts, weekends, public holidays & night duty.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Supervisory skills and optimal utilisation of
sub-ordinates. Ability to perform routine structured tasks. Ability to adhere to
safety standards, including Infection Prevention and Control. Ability to do
hospital hygiene audits. Understanding of hospital waste management, linen
management, catering, and time management. Good communication skills.
DUTIES : Supervise, coordinate, control, and inspect the duties of the Household Aids.
Do scheduling of housekeeping duty registers. Ensure the correct segregation
and removal of different types of waste in the wards. Maintain a high standard
of hygiene and tidiness in the unit/institution. Order and control stock and
kitchen/cleaning equipment. Ensure proper linen sorting and Linen
144
management in the wards. Render support to the nursing department and none
nursing personnel at ward level. Render support to the Support Services unit.
Adhere to the Code of Conduct and display the core values of the Department
of Health: Western Cape Government in the execution of duties. Maintain self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JJ Roberts Tel No: (021) 938-4121
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates
may be subjected to a practical/competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/191 : HOUSEKEEPING SUPERVISOR
Overberg Hospital
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Caledon Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate cleaning, linen and
housekeeping supervisory experience in a health facility environment. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work overtime and provide relief work in
other departments and assist at other facility within sub-districts to ensure
effective provision of services. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Understanding hospital waste management, linen management, Hospital
catering, Infection prevention and Control, and OHS. Knowledge of
inventory/stock control, ability to manage hospital hygiene audits and ability to
count. Ability to supervise and discipline staff members and to optimally utilise
housekeeping staff. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook).
DUTIES : Responsible for overall control, organising, performing, and coordinating tasks
related to linen, waste management and hygiene services and maintaining a
high standard of cleanliness and hygiene within the hospital as well as audit
and evaluate hospital hygiene standards. Manage infection control and health
and safety policies. The ability to operate housekeeping machines and
equipment and report damages when occurs to the machine and equipment.
Effectively manage the utilisation of physical and material resources in
accordance with legislation and policies. Supervise, manage and coordinate
the housekeeping and laundry teams, and implement disciplinary procedures
when required. Effective communication, and assistance provided to
supervisors, colleagues, and management to assist with improved service
delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Fudu Tel No: (028) 212-1070
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/192 : FOOD SERVICE AID (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic reading, writing and numerical abilities (basic
mathematics). Experience: Appropriate experience in an Industrial Food
Services Unit. Inherent requirements of the job: Prepared to work shifts,
weekends and public holidays. Ability to lift heavy objects and be on feet the
entire day. Responsible for own transport to and from work. Competencies
(knowledge /skills): Ability to function in a group and work under pressure.
Knowledge of HACCP; national guidelines on safe preparation, storage and
handling of powdered infant formula for health facilities and home
environments; health and safety policies. Knowledge of basic cleaning and
maintenance of equipment used in the milk kitchen and Food Service Unit.
Understanding of the functioning of a hospital milk kitchen.
DUTIES : Preparation and distribution of milk feeds to the wards according to prescribed
standardized recipes and the standard operating plan, with temperature control
during the processes. Assist with receipt, storage and stock control of food and
milk kitchen supplies and maintain record-keeping and statistics of milk feeds
145
delivered to the wards. Pre-prepare, prepare, dish up and distribute normal and
special diets. Adhere to general hygiene and safety directives in the Food
Service Unit and milk kitchen, including use of apparatus and equipment, and
washing of crockery, cutlery and cooking utensils. Maintain safety measures
for apparatus and equipment and report broken items. Assist with informal in-
service training of new employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Broekhuizen Tel No: (021) 918-1385
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-
jobs (click “online applications”).
NOTE : Candidates short-listed for interviews will be expected to complete a practical
test. The pool of applications may be considered for vacancies within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services for a period of three months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level remain the same as those advertised.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/193 : PORTER
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : False Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic reading, writing and numerical skills.
Experience: Appropriate porter experience in a in a hospital/health
environment. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts,
overtime, weekends and public holidays. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to work under pressure.
Willing to work in a team. Ability to perform tasks such as lifting patients
from/onto beds trolleys and wheelchairs. Ability to interact with clients, public
and staff. Ability to work in a team and independently.
DUTIES : Accompany/assist and transport of patients via beds/trolleys/wheelchairs
between treatment areas. Assist with the loading of patients in/out of
ambulances/vehicles. Carry medical and other documentation (patient files,
reports, etc) to wards/treatment areas. Check, report and replace gas cylinders
in wards/treatment areas and assist with shifting of medical equipment to and
from rooms. Responsible for the maintenance of trolleys and wheelchairs (this
includes cleaning and repairs). Removal and transportation of corpses.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Peters Tel No: (021) 832-5257
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/194 : HOUSEHOLD AID (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic literacy and numeracy skills.
Experience: Appropriate experience in cleaning hospital or health environment.
Inherent requirement of the job: Ability to lift/move heavy objects and working
at heights requiring the use of a stepladder. Willingness to work shifts, public
holidays, weekends, overtime and night duty. Relief in other departments when
necessary. Willingness to undergo formal and informal training. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Infection Control and Occupational Health
and Safety Good interpersonal skills with the rest of the multi-disciplinary team
as well as the public. Good communication and interpersonal skills. Ability to
work in a team environment and independently.
DUTIES : Responsible for cleaning duties i.e. sweeping, dusting, emptying bins daily,
mopping, scrubbing and polishing, cleaning windows, deep cleaning of toilets,
general refuse and medical waste handling and maintenance of general
neatness and hygiene (adhere to OSH and IPC policies). Perform patients and
parents’ meal serving and cleaning of crockery and cutlery (according to
HACCP principles and food service unit policies). Effective use of machinery,
maintenance and safekeeping of consumables and equipment. Attend in-
service training and render support to the supervisor with regards to general
housekeeping duties. Handling of linen (soiled linen, dirty linen, clean linen,
counting of linen, packing linen room). Assist in performing ad-hoc duties within
the hospital.
146
ENQUIRIES : L Chenga Tel No: (021) 658 5436 / M Fredericks Tel No: (021) 658 5111
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/195 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (SESSIONAL) (20 HOURS PER WEEK)
(X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(Contract until 31 March 2026)
SALARY : Grade 1: R482 per hour
Grade 2: R550 per hour
Grade 3: R636 per hour
CENTRE : Helderberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with Professional council: Registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Medical
Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees,
of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner
after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA
qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after
registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s license. Ability to
work flexibly across weekdays, weekends, and after-hours (sessional schedule
will be adjusted according to service need). Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Competency in clinical care across key generalist domains: – Emergency care
– Internal medicine – Surgical and procedural support- Obstetrics and
gynaecology – Paediatrics -Ability to manage undifferentiated patients and
complex presentations Team-based care and cross-disciplinary collaboration.
Effective communication and clinical documentation and record keeping.
Computer literacy: electronic health records, MS Word, Excel.
DUTIES : Provide direct, high-quality clinical care across hospital departments as
needed. Participate in daily ward rounds, new admissions, EC callouts, and
step-down planning. Cover OPD, EC, inpatient wards, maternity, paediatrics,
and surgical services depending on service pressure. Uphold standards of
clinical governance and safety. Support district-level referral and discharge
planning. Participate in case discussions, audit activities, and team meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. W Viljoen Tel No: (021) 850 4705
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. No payment of
any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. -This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). The pool of applicants will be considered for vacancies
within Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure for a period of 3 months from date of
147
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/196 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL SURGERY) (13
SESSIONS)
Chief Directorate: Mero Health Services
(6-Month Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R646 per hour
Grade 2: R737 per hour
Grade 3: R853 per hour
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration or existing registration with the Health Professional Council of
South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in General Surgery. Registration
with Professional council: Appropriate qualification that allows registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa as Medical Specialist in General
Surgery. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in General Surgery in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-
year relevant experience after registration as Medical Specialist in General
Surgery with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist in General Surgery after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in General Surgery in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as
Medical Specialist in General Surgery with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Specialist in
General Surgery after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
General Surgery in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years’
relevant experience after registration as Medical Specialist in General Surgery
with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service
as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver's
license and willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Clinical
experience with General Surgery, including endoscopy and laparoscopic
surgery. Ability to achieve and maintain good interpersonal relations with staff,
patients, and their families. Excellent clinical notes, referral writing skills and
sound verbal and written communication skills as well as analytical and
problem-solving skills. The candidate must have sufficient clinical and
academic skills to handle a large clinical workload.
DUTIES : Provision of clinical service delivery at specialist level across the full spectrum
of General Surgery services but with a focus on the endoscopy service. Duties
in theatre may also be needed, performing surgical procedures. Consultant
ward rounds with senior decision making in respect of patient care, including
disposition decisions and oversight and input into OPD services. Clinical
Governance in respect of accurate medical record keeping, data / trend
analysis, contribution to Morbidity & Mortality meetings and management of
complaints. Use of existing digital platforms for referrals and patient related
documentation. Teaching, training, research activities, including supervision &
teaching of junior doctors and participation in the academic program in the
hospital. Contribution to improvement of internal systems within the General
Surgery service – both within the hospital and the Metro East ecosystem and
participation in the wider management of the medical services within the
hospital, both clinical and administrative, where reasonable and feasible.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Le Roux Tel No: (021) 918-1990
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with their relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
148
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Chief Director Metro Health Services, for a
period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and
oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/197 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (PSYCHIATRY) SESSIONAL (4
HOURS PER WEEK)
SALARY : Grade 1: R646 per hour
Grade 2: R737 per hour
Grade 3: R853 per hour
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Psychiatry. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical
Specialist in Psychiatry. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Specialist after registration with HPCSA (or a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Technical skills appropriate for investigation. MMED in
Psychiatry and/or FC Psychiatry (SA) qualifications. Facilitation of
management system. Effective and efficient administration. Communication
including report generation, letter writing, consultation. Clinical skills required
of a Medical Specialist Psychiatrist, including assessment, diagnosis and
treatment in a psychiatry outpatient setting.
DUTIES : Clinical Service Provision. Clinical Governance and Administration. Teaching
and Training/Supervision of Junior Staff.
ENQUIRIES : Dr I Lewis Tel No: (021) 404 5381 or Ian.lewis@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
“Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals
who must apply for change in registration status)”. Please ensure that you
attach an updated CV. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of three months from the date of
the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/198 : DENTIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (SESSIONAL 35 HOURS) (NHI FUNDING)
(Contract Until 31 March 2026)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R468 per hour
Grade 2: R550 per hour
Grade 3: R636 per hour
CENTRE : NHI Project – West Coast (Placement in the Matzikama Sub-district, PHC
platform)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
149
Dentist. Registration with Professional council: Registration with the HPCSA as
Dentist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Dentist with the
HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience after
registration as Dentist with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 7 years’
appropriate experience as Dentist after registration with the HPCSA as a
Dentist in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 8 years relevant
experience after registration as Dentist with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
3: A minimum of 12 years’ appropriate experience as Dentist after registration
with the HPCSA as a Dentist in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum
of 13 years relevant experience after registration as Dentist with a recognised
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees,
of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to render dental services
at all Primary Health Care Clinics within the Sub-district as well as at Vredendal
Hospital. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to function/make decisions independently and as part of a multi-
disciplinary team. Good communication, interpersonal relationships,
exceptional leadership and conflict resolution skills. Basic computer skills in
MS Word, Excel, and Outlook. Knowledge of relevant legislation, policies and
protocols of the Department of Health, Western Cape with regards to
community dentistry.
DUTIES : Provide optimal primary and secondary dental treatment to children and adults
in clinics and the hospital in the Sub-district. Effective management of dental
clinic and services. Training functions. Effective promotion and marketing of
oral health. Ensure quality of care.
ENQUIRIES : Dr AO Hofmeester-Oncke Tel No: (027) 213-4070
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Matzikama Sub-district, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
POST 33/199 : NURSING ASSISTANT: GRADE 1 TO 3 (MEDICINE) (20 HOURS
SESSIONS)
(Contract end date 31 March 2026)
SALARY : Grade 1: R115 per hour
Grade 2: R134 per hour
Grade 3: R158 per hour
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Registration
with Professional council: Registration with the SANC as Enrolled Nursing
Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as Nursing
Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Nursing Assistant. Inherent
requirements of the job: To work shifts and after-hours including weekends,
public holidays and night duty. To rotate to other departments. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Nursing Practices. Infection Prevention
Control, control measures and practices. Ability to interpret basic clinical signs
150
and symptoms. Basic computer literacy. Ability to lift and turn patients, stand
for long hours and lift heavy equipment.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living (physical care) Provide quality basic
nursing care Practice nursing in accordance with the laws and regulations
relevant to nursing. Maintain professional growth, ethical standards and self-
development. Provide elementary clinical nursing care. Utilise human, material
and physical resources efficiently and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Wulff Tel No: (021) 404 2109
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post. Shortlisted candidates may be subjected to a practical test as part of the
recruitment process.
CLOSING DATE : 29 September 2025
151