PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 21 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 20 JUNE 2025
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge
and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH
IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative
action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied.
Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the
filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment
in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENTS : DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONAL SERVICES: Kindly take note that the department
has withdrawn ALL advertised agricultural posts, as it appears in Public Service Vacancy
Circular 20 dated 13 June 2025, with a closing date of 30 June 2025. The details are as
follows: Farm Manager (CB5) - all regions with various reference numbers; Security
Manager (CB4) (Animal Production) - all regions with various reference numbers;
Security Manager: Agriculture (CB 4) - all regions with various reference numbers and
Security Officer: Agriculture (CB 1-3) (both posts) – all regions with various reference
numbers.
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL: DEPARTMENT OF
COMMUNITY SAFETY AND LIAISON: Please note that the closing date for the post of
Chief Financial Officer with Ref No: CL18/2025, that was advertised in Public Service
Vacancy Circular 18 dated 30 May 2025, has been extended to 04 July 2025.
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
DEFENCE A 03 - 04
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR B 05 - 21
FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIROMENT C 22 - 24
GOVERNMENT COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION SYSTEM D 25 - 38
HEALTH E 39 - 47
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING F 48 - 82
NATIONAL TREASURY G 83 - 88
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE H 89 - 98
SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT I 99 - 101
TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS J 102
WATER AND SANITATION K 103 - 108
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
FREE STATE L 109 - 110
GAUTENG M 111 - 181
MPUMALANGA N 182 - 192
NORTH WEST O 193 - 196
WESTERN CAPE P 197- 231
2
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025 (Applications received after the closing date and faxed copies will
not be considered).
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed form Z83 (obtainable from
any Public Service Department office i.e effective 01 January 2021 or on the
DPSA web site link: https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/. Should an
application be received using incorrect application employment form Z83, it will
be disqualified, which must be originally signed and dated by the applicant and
which must be accompanied by a detailed CV only (with full particulars of the
applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge & experience).
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
which should not be older than six months. Failure to comply with the above
instructions will result in applications being disqualified. Applicants applying for
more than one post must submit a separate form Z83 (as well as the
documentation mentioned above) in respect of each post being applied for. If
an applicant wishes to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing.
Should an application be received where an applicant applies for more than
one post on the same applications form, the application will only be considered
for the first post indicated on the application and not for any of the other posts.
Under no circumstances will photostat copies or faxed copies of application
documents be accepted. The successful candidates will be subjected to
Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset
record checks and qualification and employment verification). Successful
candidates will also be subjected to security clearance processes. The level of
appointments is dependent upon, qualifications, relevant experience and
research output. The shortlisted candidates will be subjected to two (2) pre-
entry assessments (practical and ethical exercise) which will determine the
candidate’s suitability. Applicants who do not receive confirmation or feedback
within 3 (three) months after the closing date, please consider your application
unsuccessful. Due to the large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of
applications will not be acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. For more information on the job description(s)
please contact the person indicated in the post details. Successful candidates
will be appointed on probation for the period of twelve (12) months in terms of
the prescribed rules.
OTHER POSTS
POST 21/01 : PERSONNEL OFFICIAL: SUPERVISOR REF NO: DHRMAINT/22/21/25
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : D HR Maintenance, Bank of Lisbon, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent with a minimum of three to five (3-5)
years relevant experience in Human Resource Management. Knowledge and
courses of PERSOL mainframe or PERSAL system will be an added
advantage. Special requirements (Skills needed): Computer literacy (MS
Excel, MS PowerPoint and MS Word). Knowledge of Honours and Awards
Policies, processes. Qualified in PERSOL system and remain abreast with
relevant policies. Good communication skills (Verbal and Written), ability to
work under pressure, and client orientated. Interpersonal relationship and,
problem solving skills, Maintain self-discipline and be able to interpret policy
directives.
DUTIES : Ensure management and maintenance of a register wrt approved general
orders. Receive medal application forms. Verify the completeness and
correctness of all applications and relevant documentation attached. Obtain
approval for the award of clasps, decorations and medals for long service to
members of the SANDF. Obtain approval when necessary for forfeiture or
annulments. Compile General Orders for Public Service Act Personnel (PSAP)
Long Service Awards. Updating of the central awards register and Mainframe
system at all times. Filing of all documentation. Registration of all Long Service
3
applications. Bravery and Merit awards (Register all citations). Register
Campaign awards Handle enquiries relating to Long Service Awards.
ENQUIRIES : Maj M.P. Monaheng Tel No: (012) 339 5607/Ms B.T. Nkuna Tel No: (012) 339
5385
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Directorate Human Resource Maintenance, Private
Bag X976, Pretoria, 0001, may be hand delivered to Bank of Lisbon Building,
Corner Paul Kruger & Visagie Streets, Pretoria or email to:
lesegodibakwane@yahoo.com
POST 21/02 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: CSD/13/14/25
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Chief of Staff SANDF, Corporate Staff Division, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent with Secretarial Diploma or equivalent
qualification. A minimum of three to five (3-5) years’ experience in rendering
administrative support to a senior manager, including specific experience in
assisting with the compiling of agendas and taking minutes during strategic
meetings. The successful candidate must be willing to travel locally and
globally with the Senior Manager in executing his/her functions directed by the
Senior Manager. Special Requirement (skills needed): Excellent written and
verbal communication skills; Ability to communicate well with people at different
levels and from different backgrounds; Computer skills; Excellent telephone
etiquette; Interpersonal skills; Conceptual thinking and problem solving skills;
Planning Skills; Sound organising skills; Analytical thinking; Ability to analyse
documents; Good interpersonal relationships; Good presentation skills. Basic
knowledge of financial administration and regulatory framework. Possession of
valid driver’s license is recommended.
DUTIES : A successful candidate will be required to perform the following duties: Provide
administrative and Secretarial support services to the senior manager. Analyse
the relevant regulatory prescripts/policies and advise the senior manager
accordingly in terms of their applicability for effective and efficient support to
the senior manager. Analyse and scrutinise documents to determine actions
required before the meetings. Coordinates the procurement of goods and items
for the activities of the senior manager. Coordinates logistical arrangements for
the meetings of senior manager. Coordinates the travel and accommodation
arrangements for senior manager during meetings and visits. Ensure
configuration control of the senior manager Agendas, Minutes, Decision
Register and related Instructions.
ENQUIRIES : Col F.H. Josephs Tel No: (012) 355 6026
APPLICATIONS : Chief of Staff SANDF, Corporate Staff Division, Private Bag X161, Pretoria,
0001 or may be hand delivered to Armscor Building, corner of Nossob and
Boeing Street, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria, 0001 or may email to
csdrecruitement@dod.mil.za.
4
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 00:00 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the correct
job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your email.
Use the correct email address associated with the post. JPEG
(picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Failure to do so, your
application will be disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference
number must be submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate’s
suitability based on the posts’s technical and generic requirements. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) Your
information will be used soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. If you
have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below
advertised post(s). The successful candidate will be required to enter into an
employment contract and a performance agreement. The Department is an
equal opportunity affirmative action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of
the Department shall inform the employment decision. It is the Department’s
intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of
this post(s)
OTHER POSTS
POST 21/03 : PRINCIPAL INSPECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & HYGIENE REF NO:
HR4/4/5/27
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Estcourt
5
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF 6)/ Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF 7) in Environmental Health/ Occupational Health/ Hygiene/ Analytical
Chemistry/ Chemical Engineering. Four (4) years functional experience in
Health and Hygiene inspection/ services. Valid Driver’s licence. Knowledge:
Departmental Policies and procedures, Batho Pele Principles, Public Service
Act and Regulations, OHS Act and Regulations, OHS standards, OHS
Management System. Skills: Facilitation, Planning and Organizing, Computer
literacy, Interpersonal, Problem Solving, Interviewing listening and observation,
Presentation, Innovative, Analytical, Research, Project management.
DUTIES : Provide inputs into the development of Health and Hygiene policies and ensure
implementation of OHS strategy for the Department of Labour in terms of OHS
Legislation. Conduct complex inspections for Health and Hygiene regularly as
per inspection programme. Conduct technical research on the latest trends in
Occupational Health and Hygiene within identified sectors. Provide support for
enforcement action, including preparation of reports for legal proceedings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SF Kubeka Tel No: (031) 366 2121
APPLICATIONS : Specialist OHS, KZN Provincial Office: PO Box 940, Durban, 4000 Or hand
deliver at 267 Anton Lembede Street, The Royal Hotel Building, Durban 4001.
For Online Applications: Jobs-KZN28@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, KwaZulu-Natal
POST 21/04 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL COMPLIANCE REF NO:
HR4/25/06/64HO
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF6)/ Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF7) in Financial Management/ Accounting/ Auditing. Four (4) years’
experience of which two (2) years at supervisory level and two (2) years
functional experience of SOEs/ Financial Management/ Accounting/ Auditing.
Knowledge: Applicable legislative and regulatory framework (i.e. Labour),
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations and
guidelines, Organisational and government structures, Internal audit concepts,
frameworks and methodologies, Public Sector Risk Management Framework,
King Report on Corporate governance (II and III), General Recognised
Accounting Practices (GRAP). Skills: Planning and organizing, Communication
(written and verbal), Problem solving, Leadership, Conflict and Diversity
Management, Presentation, Analytical, Financial and Performance Report
writing.
DUTIES : Promote awareness (advocacy) on all matters of financial compliance within
the Department. Monitor and assess financial compliance, reporting,
investigations and financial advisory. Manage, monitor and advise SOEs on
corporate governance compliance and perform financial oversight. Evaluate
financial statements of industries falling within the Ministerial National Minimum
Wages and make recommendations on the affordability of such applications.
Manage and supervise the resources of the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Max Tsotetsi at 067 428 0050
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ1@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Head Office
POST 21/05 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION REF NO: HR
5/1/2/3/46
This is a re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged
to re-apply
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year qualification (on NQF Level 6) in Information
Systems/Technology/Informatics. 4 years’ functional experience in Information
systems of which 2 years is supervisory. Knowledge: Compensation Fund
Strategic Objectives. Relevant stakeholders. Customer Service (Batho Pele
Principles). Technical knowledge. COIDA Guidelines. Public Service Act (PSA).
Legislative requirements: Sarbanes Oxley Act. ITIL Framework. PFMA and
National Treasury Regulations. Promotion of Access to Information Act. Skills:
Required Technical proficiency. Business Writing Skills. Communication
6
(verbal and written). Customer Focus and Responsiveness. People and
Performance Management. Diversity Management. Managing inter-personal
conflict and resolving problem. Planning and organizing. Problem solving and
decision making Team leadership.
DUTIES : Enhance the performance and functionality of Financial Management systems.
Co-ordinate daily activities of the systems and provide support to end users.
Co-ordinate the regular maintenance of financial systems. Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CP Bates at 082 462 8522
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF1@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 21/06 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT QUALITY ASSURANCE REF
NO: HR 5/1/2/3/47
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (on NQF Level 6) in Internal Audit/Accounting/
Cost and Management Accounting. Certificate as Accredited Quality
Assurance Assessment/Validation (Internal Audit). Internal Audit Technician
Certification- IAT is required. Professional Internal Auditor-PIA as an added
advantage. Certified Internal Auditor-CIA as an added advantage. 4 years’
functional experience in Internal Audit Quality Assurance of which 2 years in
supervisory experience. Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA). Knowledge:
Compensation Fund policies, procedures, processes. Performance Audit
standards. Internal Audit standards. Customer Relationship Management.
Fund Governance and Risk Management. Budgeting and Financial
Management. COIDA. Relevant stakeholders. Batho Pele Principles.
Legislative Requirement: PFMA and National Treasury Regulations. Skills:
Required Technical Proficiency. Business Writing Skills. Analytical thinking.
Decision making. Communication (verbal and written). Customer focus and
Responsiveness. People and Performance Management. Managing inter-
personal conflict and problem solving. Planning and Organizing. Team
leadership. External Environmental Awareness.
DUTIES : Provide inputs and implement the internal audit quality assurance policies and
procedure manuals. Manage and monitor the promotion of quality assurance
within the IA directorate. Coordinate the Internal Audit directorates quality
assurance program. Management of resources in the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PS Zwane at 082 310 4510
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF1@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply
POST 21/07 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT DATA ANALYTICS
SPECIALIST REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/48
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (on NQF Level 6) in Computer Science/
Information System/ Informatics/ Internal Audit/ Data Analytics. Data Science,
Business Analytics or a certificate in data analytics. 4 years’ functional
experience in ICT Audit or data Analysis environment. Institute of Internal
Auditors (IIA). Knowledge: Financial Management. ICT Audits standards.
COBIT (Control objectives for information related technologies) framework.
Data Analytics or Big Data Framework. Continuous auditing knowledge in Data
Governance and Data Quality. Statistical knowledge. COIDA. Scripting in some
language e.g. SQL. Protection of personal information Act and General Data
Protection Regulation. Legislative Requirements: PFMA and National Treasury
Regulations. Skills: Financial analysis. Presentation skills. Decision making.
7
Research. Structured Query Language. Planning and organizing. Team
leadership. External Environmental Awareness.
DUTIES : Identify appropriate data sources and data elements required to design and
develop data analysis routines. Facilitate internal audit extraction and
transformation processes. Establish and maintain effective systems of internal
auditing data and exploration. Create dashboards and /or reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Dikokoe at 071 148 4046
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF1@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply
POST 21/08 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FRAUD PREVENTION REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/49
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year qualification (on NQF Level 6) in Risk Management/ Forensic
Auditing/ Criminal/ Forensic Accounting/ Commerce. 4 years’ functional
experience on Fraud Management. Knowledge: Public Service Act. Customer
service principles (Batho Pele Principles). Criminal law, criminal procedures
and law of evidence. Minimum information security standard (MISS).
Understanding of risk management and audit practices. Investigation methods
and techniques. Corporate governance guidelines and strategies. Directorate
goas and performance requirements. Investigation principles and practices.
Information system terminology, concept and practices. Understanding of
fraud, corruption risks and effective risk management techniques, forensic
audit practices. Knowledge of professional standards of Associations of
Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE) and or internal standards for Professional
Practices of Internal Audit. Legislative Requirement: National intelligence Act.
Criminal procedure Act. The prevention of Organized Act, Act No; 121 of 1998
(POCA). The Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities Act, Act No. 12 of
2003 (PRECCA). The Protected Disclosure Act, Act No. 26 of 2000 (PDA). The
Public Finance Management Act, Act No. 1 of 1991 (PFMA) AS AMENDED.
National Treasury regulation. Promotion of Access to information Act (PAIA).
Promotion Administrative Justice Act (PAJA). Constitution Act 108 of 1996
(amended). Skills: Stakeholder relations management. Client orientation and
customer focus. Campaign management. Project management. Problem
solving and analysis. Strategic planning and organizing. Knowledge
management. Decision making. People management. Computer literacy.
Research skills. Good communication and interpersonal skills. Relationship
management/ alliance partnering. Diversity management. Critical system
thinking. Driving.
DUTIES : Provide inputs into the development of fraud prevention and intergrity
management strategies, policies and procedures. Co-Ordinate and implement
the development fraud prevention, policies and procedures. Co-Ordinate the
anti- fraud and corruption training program. Co-Ordinate and implement
various detection techniques and cyber-crime in the Fund. Implement and
maintain fraud prevention best practices.
ENQUIRIES : Mr I Moloto at 071 677 0277
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF1@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply
POST 21/09 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO: HR 4/4/8/102
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Kimberly
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years National Diploma (NQF6)/ Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF7) in Office Management, Public Management, Public Administration/
Business Management/ Business Administration. Four (4) years” experience of
8
which two (2) years at Supervisory level (Senior Admin Office/ Practitioner and
two (2) years functional experience in Inspection/ Administration Services.
Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures, Skills Development Act,
LRA, BCEA, Public Service Regulations, SDLA, OHS Act, COIDA, UIA, UI
Contributions Act, Employment Equity Act. Skills: Facilitation, Planning and
Organizing, Computer literacy, Interpersonal, Problem solving, Interviewing,
listening & observation, Innovative, Analytical and Verbal and written
communication skills.
DUTIES : Perform all administration pertaining to inspections and enforcement services.
Conduct Labour Centre verification and audits to check if necessary tools of
trade are in place with a view to improve IES systems and processes. Collect,
compile and consolidate IES statistical reports and submit to PCI. Coordinate
and monitor projects of the IES. Compile reports for the complex cases that
require attention of the Chief Director. Attend to DG and Ministerial enquiries.
Manage the resources in the sub-section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Litheko Tel No: (053) 838 1632
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X5012, Kimberley, 8301 OR
hand deliver at Laboria House, c/o Pniel & Compound Street, Kimberley. Email:
Jobs-NCKIM@labour.gov.za
POST 21/10 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: IT AND OFFICE SERVICE REF NO: HR 4/4/8/924
Re-advert, applicants who previously applied must re-apply
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Free State
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant three (3) years’ qualifications at NQF6 in Business/ Public
Administration/ Public Management/ Financial Management/ Facilities
Management/ Property Management and Real Estate Management. Driver’s
License. Two (2) years supervisory experience, two (2) years functional
experience in administrative environment. Knowledge: Relevant Departmental
policies and procedures. Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Batho Pele
Principles. Minimum Information Security Standard. Archives Records.
National Archives and Records Service. Safety and Security. Accommodation
procedures. Damage and Loss control. Skills: Communication. Interpersonal
relations. Decision-making. Problem solving. Presentation. Conflict
management. Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Manage the office accommodation and maintenance operations for the
province. Facilitate the administration functions on security services within the
province. Manage and monitor effective records management services in the
province. Monitor and ensure that all ITC equipment is operational.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Tokwe Tel No: (051) 505 6204
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein, 9300
Or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: jobs-fs9@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Free State
POST 21/11 : RISK PRACTITIONER: ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: HR
5/1/2/3/50
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year qualification (on NQF Level 6) in Risk Management and /or Internal
Auditing environment. 2 years’ functional experience in risk management/
internal auditing environment. Knowledge: Compensation Fund business
strategies and goals. Compensation Fund regulations, policies and
procedures. Compensation Fund Services. Compensation Fund Value Chain
and business processes. Customer Services principles (Batho Pele
Principles). Extensive knowledge and understanding of Treasury Audits.
Corporate governance guidelines and the development of policies and
strategies. Risk assessment. Risk management and audit practices.
Knowledge of investigation methods and techniques. Required information
technology knowledge. Compensation Fund information technology operating
systems. DPSA guidelines on COIDA. Framework for risk governance. Risk
management compliance. Risk management policies and procedures.
Legislative Requirements: Public finance Management Act (PFMA).
Compensation for Occupational injuries and diseases Act (COIDA), regulations
and policies. Public service regulations. Treasury regulations. Supply chain
9
management prescripts. Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS).
Promotion of Access to Information Act. PAJA. Constitution Act 108 of 1996
(amended). Unemployment Insurance Act (UIA). LRA, EE Act, SDA & BCEA.
Skills: Excellent communication (verbal and Written). Programme and project
management. Problem solving and analysis. Research analysis and
methodology. Decision making.
DUTIES : Implement risk management strategy and policies. Organize and participate in
risk awareness and educational campaigns to inculcate a culture of risk
management. Perform secretarial duties for the Fund’s Risk Committee.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MJ Raganya at 064 951 5145
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF2@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply
POST 21/12 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
HR 5/1/2/3/51
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (on NQF Level 6) as recognized by SAQA in
Human Resources Management/ Human Resource Development/
Management of Training/ Public Management. Two (2) years functional
experience in Human Resource Development/ Training and Development
environment at supervisory level. Knowledge: Compensation Fund business
processes. Public Service Regulations. Public Service Act. Stakeholders and
Customers> Customers Service (Batho Pele Principles). Technical knowledge.
DoL Training and Development Policy. Competency framework for different
areas. Digital Acumen/ Relevant HRM system/ Learning system/ Performance
Systems etc Project Management and Planning. Legislative Requirement:
PFMA and Treasury regulations. Skills Development Act. Skills: Coaching and
Mentoring. Conflict Management. Inspire Commitment. People Management.
Performance and Oversight. Quality Assurance. Service Delivery Innovation.
Stakeholder Development & Relations. Digital acumen. Data Gathering,
Analysis. Research and Benchmarking.
DUTIES : Coordinate the implementation of bursary for the Fund. Coordinate
Compulsory Induction Programmes (CIP) and departmental orientation
program in the Compensation Fund. Develop the Workplace skills plan
programs (WSP) and HRD strategies. Implement the Workplace Skills plan
(WSP) and training interventions as per personal development plans (PDP” s).
Coordinate the developmental programmes of the Fund. Supervise staff and
resources in the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr WN Khuzwayo at 076 430 1163
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF2@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply
POST 21/13 : FRAUD INVESTIGATOR REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/52
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (on NQF Level 6) in Forensic Investigation/
Law/ Accounting/ Auditing/. A Certificate Fraud Examine (CFE) would be an
added advantage. A Valid driver’s license. 2 years of functional experience in
conducting Forensic Investigation into economics crimes especially on anti-
fraud and corruption environment. Knowledge: Compensation Fund
regulations, policies and procedures. Customer Service (Batho Pele
Principles). Criminal law, Criminal procedures and law of evidence. Minimum
information security standard (MISS). Understanding of risk management and
audit practices. Investigation methods and techniques. Understanding of Fraud
10
and corruption processes. Legislative Requirement: COIDA. National
intelligence Act. Protection of Information Act. Criminal procedures Act. PFMA
and Treasury Regulations. Promotion of Access to Information Act. PAJA.
Skills: Report writing. Client orientation and customer focus. Communication
(verbal and written). Conducting an inquiry and investigations. Problems
solving and analysis Planning and organizing. Knowledge management.
Negotiation. Decision making. Pro-activeness and initiative. Computer literacy.
Time management. Teamwork and collaboration. Quality and Excellence
orientation.
DUTIES : Implement Anti-fraud and Corruption strategies and other fraud and Corruption
policies. Conduct forensic investigation into act of fraud and Corruption
reported within the Fund. Provide support on system analysis. Liaise with
appropriate sections within the department and external stakeholders on fraud
measures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr NM Skosana at 063 773 8250
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF2@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply
POST 21/14 : PUBLIC LIAISON OFFICER REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/53
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year qualification (on NQF Level 6) in Public Management/ public
Relations/ Humanities/ Business Administration. 2 years’ functional experience
in complains/ compliment environment. Knowledge: Compensation Fund
objectives and business processes. Contact Centre goals. Customer care
(Batho Pele Principles). Required IT Knowledge. Contact Centre quality
assurance objectives. Legislative Requirement: COIDA. Public Service Act.
PFMA and National Treasury Regulations. Skills: Service delivery innovation.
Client orientation and customer focus. Excellent communication (Verbal and
Written). Planning and organizing. Problem solving and analysis. Conflict
management. Decision making. Budgeting and Financial Management.
Continuous improvement. People and Performance Management. Diversity
Management.
DUTIES : Handle electronic and voice queries from the Presidential, DG and
Commissioners Hotline. Effectively utilize Contact Centre Multimedia System.
Render administrative services. Participate in continuous process
improvement initiatives. Supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Sekome at 066 480 3960
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF3@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 21/15 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: ICT AUDITS REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/54
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification in Internal Audit/ Accounting/ Computer
Science/ Information System. Internal Audit Technician-IAT as an added
advantage. Member of Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA) or ISACA. 2 years’
functional experience in ICT Audit environment. Knowledge: Compensation
Fund policies, procedure, processes. ICT Audits standards. COBIT (control
objectives for information related technologies) framework. Internal audits
standards. Customer Relationship Management. Fund Governance and Risk
Management. Budgeting and Financial Management. COIDA. Relevant
stakeholders. Batho Pele principles. Legislative Requirement: PFMA and
National Treasury Regulations. Skills: Required Technical proficiency.
Business Writing Skills. Analytical Thinking. Decision making. Communication
11
(verbal and written). Customer focus and Responsiveness. People and
Performance Management. Managing inter-personal conflict and problem
solving. Planning and organizing. Team leadership. External Environment
Awareness.
DUTIES : Assist in planning ICT audit engagements. Perform ICT audit engagements.
Communicate ICT audit results. Follow up the implementation of ICT audit
recommendations. Compile an audit file.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PV Musetsho at 067 077 1095
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF3@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply
POST 21/16 : OHS INSPECTOR: MECHANICAL ENGINEERING REF NO: HR4/4/5/32
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Stanger
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus a 3 year recognised qualification at NQF6 in the relevant
field, ie. Mechanical Engineering. Valid Driver’s licence. Knowledge:
Departmental policies and procedures, Occupational Health and Safety Act, as
amended, Regulations (21), South African National Standards (Codes)-
incorporated Codes become regulations, Compensation for Occupational
Injuries and Diseases Act, Unemployment Insurance Act. Skills: Planning and
organizing, Communication skills, Computer literacy, Facilitation skills,
Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling skills, Negotiation skills, Problem solving
skills, Interviewing skills, Presentation skills, Innovation skills, Analytical skills,
Verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. To confirm registration of with the
Unemployment Insurance Act and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act. Plan, investigate and finalise independently incidents and
complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and the relevant regulations and
enforce as and when necessary, appear in Court as a State witness. Plan and
conduct allocated proactive inspections as per schedule to monitor compliance
with the relevant labour legislation including compiling and consolidating
reports emanating from such inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy
campaigns on all labour legislation independently, analyse impact thereof,
consolidate and compile report. Contribute at a higher level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including,
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Zondi Tel No: (032) 307 0989
APPLICATIONS : Acting Deputy Director: Stanger Labour Centre, PO Box 138, Stanger, 4450 Or
hand deliver at 12 Cato Street, Stanger. For Online Application: Jobs-
KZN10@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, KwaZulu-Natal
POST 21/17 : INSPECTOR REF NO: HR4/4/5/26
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years relevant qualification at NQF6 in Labour Relations/ BCOM Law/
LLB. Valid Driver’s licence. Two (2) years functional experience in Inspection
and Enforcement Services. Knowledge: Departmental Policies and
procedures, Skills Development Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, Skills Development Levies Act, Occupational Health and
Safety Act, COIDA, SABS Codes, Unemployment Insurance Act, UI
Contributions Act, Employment Equity Act, Immigration Act. Skills: Facilitation
skills, Planning and Organizing, Computer literacy, Interpersonal skills, Conflict
handling skills, Negotiation skills, Problem Solving skills, Interviewing skills,
Presentation skills, Innovative, Analytical, Verbal and written communication
skills.
12
DUTIES : Plan and independently conduct substantive inspections with the aim of
ensuring compliance with all labour legislations, namely, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act (BCEA), Labour Relations Act (LRA), Employment Equity Act
(EEA), Unemployment Insurance Act (UIA), Compensation for Occupational
Injuries and Diseases Act (COIDA), Occupational Health and Safety (OHS),
and UI Contribution Act (UCA), Plan and execute investigations independently
on reported cases pertaining to contravention of labour legislation and enforce
as and when necessary including making preparations for and appearing in
Court as a state witness, plan and conduct allocated proactive (Blitz)
inspections regularly to monitor compliance with labour legislation including
compilation and consolidation of reports emanating from such inspections,
Plan and conduct advocacy campaigns on all labour legislation independently,
analyse impact thereof, consolidate and compile report, Contribute at a higher
level to planning, drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and
reports including execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated
statistical reports on regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SA Mchunu Tel No: (031) 336 1500
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Durban Labour Centre, PO Box 10074, Marine Parade, 4056
Or hand deliver at Govt Buildings, Masonic Grove, Durban. Alternatively e-mail
to Jobs-KZN7@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, KwaZulu-Natal.
POST 21/18 : STATUTORY SERVICES OFFICER REF NO: HR 4/4/8/105
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : BPROC/ LLB/ BCOM LAW. A valid driver’s license. Minimum experience: 1
year in the legal/ compliance environment. Knowledge: Public service
transformation and management issues, Public service act, Treasury
regulations, Departmental policies and procedures, Corporate governance,
Skills Development Act, Public Service Regulations, SDLA. Skills: Facilitation,
Planning and Organising, Computer literacy, Interpersonal, Problem solving,
Interviewing, Presentation, Innovative, Analytic, Verbal and written
communication.
DUTIES : To plan and independently administer work referred to Statutory Services for
enforcement of non-compliance under employment law. Assist the ASD: SS in
the enforcement processes for IES. Assist in the strategy for Statutory
Services. Assist in facilitating the implementation of capacity development
programmes for the inspectors the provinces. Compile stats for the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Litheko Tel: (053) 8381632
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X5012, Kimberley, 8301 OR
hand deliver at Laboria House, c/o Pniel & Compound Street, Kimberley. Email:
Jobs-NCKIM@labour.gov.za
POST 21/19 : OHS INSPECTOR (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Postmasburg Labour Centre (Northern Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/8/106 (X1 Post)
Springbok Labour Centre (Northern Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/8/107 (X1 Post)
Upington Labour Centre (Northern Cape) Ref No: HR4/4/8/108 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A three (3) year tertiary qualification (NQF6) in Environmental Health,
Mechanical Engineering, Mechatronic Engineering, Electrical Engineering,
Chemical Engineering, Chemistry, Construction, Biology, Microbiology,
Biomedical Sciences, Biotechnology, Biochemistry. A valid driver’s licence. Two
(2) years functional experience in inspections and enforcement of labour
legislations or in the relevant environment. Knowledge: Departmental policies
and procedures, Occupational Health and Safety Act, as amended, OHS
Regulations, South African National Standards (Codes)- incorporated Codes
become regulations, Compensation for Occupational injuries and Diseases
Act, Unemployed Insurance Act, Employment Equity Act – relevant key
elements, Basic Conditions of Employment Act – relevant key elements,
Relevant guidelines of aforementioned legislation Skills: Planning and
organizing, Communication skills, Computer Literacy, Facilitation skills,
Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling skills, Negotiation skills, Problem solving
skills, Interviewing skills, Presentation skills, Innovation skills, Analytical skills,
Verbal and written communication skills.
13
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. Plan, investigate and finalise
independently incidents and complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and
other relevant regulations and enforce as and when necessary, appear in Court
as a State witness. Plan and conduct allocated proactive inspections as per
schedule to monitor compliance with the OHS and other relevant labour
legislation including compiling and consolidating reports emanating from such
inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy campaigns on all labour legislation
independently, analyse impact thereof, consolidate and compile report.
Contribute at a higher level to planning, drafting and maintenance of regional
inspection plans and reports including, execution of analysis and compilation
of consolidated statistical reports on regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Litheko Tel No: (053) 8381632
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X5012, Kimberley, 8301 OR
hand deliver at Laboria House, c/o Pniel & Compound Street, Kimberley. Email:
Jobs-NCKIM@labour.gov.za
POST 21/20 : TEAM LEADER: INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT SERVICES (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Postmasburg Ref No: HR4/4/08/109 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kimberley Ref No: HR4/4/8/110 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year’s National Diploma (NQF 6)/Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF 7) in Labour Relations/Labour Law/LLB/BCOM Law. Two (2) year’s
functional experience in Inspection and Enforcement Services. A valid driver’s
licence. Knowledge: Department policies and procedures, Employment
Services Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, COIDA, SABS Codes, Unemployment
Insurance Act, UI Contribution Act, Employment Equity Act, Immigration Act.
Skills: Facilitation, Planning, Organizing, Computer literacy, Interpersonal,
Conflict handling, Negotiation, Problem solving, Interviewing, Presentation,
Innovative, Analytical, Monitoring, Performance Management,
Communication.
DUTIES : Plan and independently conduct substantive inspections with the aim of
ensuring compliance with some of labour legislation, namely, Basic Conditions
of Employment Act (BCEA), Labour Relations Act (LRA). Plan and execute
investigations independently on reported cases pertaining to contravention of
labour legislation and enforce as and when necessary including making
preparations for and appearing in Court as a State witness. Plan, allocate and
conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with
labour legislation including compilation and consolidation of reports emanating
from such inspections. Conduct Advocacy campaigns on Labour legislations
regularly. Manage the finalization of files of cases received and investigations
conducted by the Inspectors. Contribute at a management level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Litheko Tel No: (053) 8381632
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X5012, Kimberley, 8301 OR
hand deliver at Laboria House, c/o Pniel & Compound Street, Kimberley. Email:
Jobs-NCKIM@labour.gov.za
POST 21/21 : OHS INSPECTOR: CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING REF NO: HR4/4/5/01
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Estcourt - KZN
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus a 3 year recognised qualification at NQF6 in the relevant
field, ie. Civil Engineering/Construction. Valid Driver’s licence. Knowledge:
Departmental policies and procedures, Occupational Health and Safety Act, as
amended, Regulations (21), South African National Standards (Codes)-
incorporated Codes become regulations, Compensation for Occupational
Injuries and Diseases Act, Unemployment Insurance Act. Skills: Planning and
organizing, Communication skills, Computer literacy, Facilitation skills,
Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling skills, Negotiation skills, Problem solving
14
skills, Interviewing skills, Presentation skills, Innovation skills, Analytical skills,
Verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. To confirm registration of with the
Unemployment Insurance Act and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act. Plan, investigate and finalise independently incidents and
complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and the relevant regulations and
enforce as and when necessary, appear in Court as a State witness. Plan and
conduct allocated proactive inspections as per schedule to monitor compliance
with the relevant labour legislation including compiling and consolidating
reports emanating from such inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy
campaigns on all labour legislation independently, analyse impact thereof,
consolidate and compile report. Contribute at a higher level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including,
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Fakazi Tel No: (036) 352 7767
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Estcourt Labour Centre, PO Box 449, Estcourt, 3310 Or hand
deliver at 75 Phillip Street, Estcourt. For Online Application: Jobs-
KZN18@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, KwaZulu-Natal
POST 21/22 : OHS INSPECTOR: ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH REF NO: HR4/4/5/02
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Kokstad - KZN
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus a 3 year recognised qualification at NQF6 in the relevant
field, ie. Occupational Hygiene or Environmental Health. Valid Driver’s licence.
Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures, Occupational Health and
Safety Act, as amended, Regulations (21), South African National Standards
(Codes)- incorporated Codes become regulations, Compensation for
Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act, Unemployment Insurance Act. Skills:
Planning and organizing, Communication skills, Computer literacy, Facilitation
skills, Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling skills, Negotiation skills, Problem
solving skills, Interviewing skills, Presentation skills, Innovation skills, Analytical
skills, Verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. To confirm registration of with the
Unemployment Insurance Act and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act. Plan, investigate and finalise independently incidents and
complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and the relevant regulations and
enforce as and when necessary, appear in Court as a State witness. Plan and
conduct allocated proactive inspections as per schedule to monitor compliance
with the relevant labour legislation including compiling and consolidating
reports emanating from such inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy
campaigns on all labour legislation independently, analyse impact thereof,
consolidate and compile report. Contribute at a higher level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including,
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Ngqoza Tel No: (039) 727 2140
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Kokstad Labour Centre, PO Box 260, Kokstad, 4700 Or hand
deliver at 59 Hope Street, Kokstad. For Online Application: Jobs-
KZN30@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, KwaZulu-Natal
POST 21/23 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCIAL SYSTEM REF NO:
HR4/25/06/35HO
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF6) as recognized by SAQA in
Accounting/ Financial Management. Two (2) years functional experience in
Finance environment. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures,
Delegation of Authority, Batho Pele Principles, Transversal Financial System
15
(PERSAL, Logis), Budgeting, General knowledge of Labour Legislation,
Extensive knowledge of Basic Accounting System. Skills: Computer
skills(Word, Excel, Power Point, BAS) Analytical, Communication (Verbal &
written), Interpersonal, Supervisory, Problem solving, Report writing,
Performance Management, Mentoring and coaching, Financial Management.
DUTIES : Capture and maintain Basic Accounting System (BAS) user access for the
Department-BAS security. Set up and maintain BAS code structure (items,
objectives, responsibilities, etc) transaction processing rules, items processing
rules, parameters, etc (Static data). Ensure that BAS and all functional areas
are available on a daily basis. Maintain BAS entity database on a daily basis.
Manage BAS help desk facility. Supervise and ensure development of
subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Johnathan Reddy Tel No: (012) 309 4887
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ29@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Head Office
POST 21/24 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: BANK RECONCILLIATION REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/55
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year qualification (on NQF Level 6) in Accounting/Financial
Management. 1-year experience in Financial Management. Knowledge:
Financial Management. Generally Recognized Accounting Principles (GRAP).
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Labour Relations Act (LRA). Basic
Condition of Employment Act (BCEA). Legislative Requirement: COIDA Act.
Public service Act. PFMA and National Treasury Regulations. Constitution Act
108 of 1996 (amended). Public Service Regulations Skills: Business Writing
Skill. Decision making. Budgeting and Financial Management. People and
Performance Management. Conflict management. Planning and organizing.
Problem solving. Project or programme management. Team leadership. Risk
Management.
DUTIES : Perform the overall maintenance of the bank accounts. Perform manual and
electronic reconciliation process. Clear all exceptions and un-reconciling items.
Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JT Khafe at 060 989 8274
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF3@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply
POST 21/25 : PRACTITIONER: THIRD PARTY REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/56
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year qualification (on NQF Level 6) in Financial Management/ Financial
Accounting. 1-year functional experience in debt collection environment.
Knowledge: Compensation Fund business strategies, policies and procedure.
Customer Service principles (Batho Pele Principles). Understanding audits
process, principles and practices. Understanding financial risk. Understanding
public sector revenue and receivable process. Debt Collection internal controls.
COIDA. Legislative Requirement: PFMA. National Treasury regulations.
Promotion of Access to Information Act. Protection of personal information Act.
Skills: Computer literacy. Technical proficiency. Business Writing. Analytical
thinking. Decision making. Communication (verbal and written). Managing
inter-personal and problem solving. Planning and organizing. Team leadership.
DUTIES : Attend to the collection of debt. Conduct debtor administration. Attend to final
award letters. Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Bouwer at 082 782 8609
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF3@labour.gov.za
16
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply
POST 21/26 : MAINTENANCE OFFICER (ELECTRICAL) REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/57
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year qualification (on NQF Level 6) in Electrical Engineering. 1-year
functional experience in electrical maintenance environment. Knowledge:
Compensation Fund business strategies and goals. Compensation Fund Value
Chain and business processes. Public Service, policies and procedures.
Customer Service (Batho Pele Principles). Building/ engineering technical
knowledge. Legislative Requirement: Occupational Health and Safety Act
(OHS) and OHS relevant Regulations. COIDA. Public Service Regulations.
Public service Act. National Environmental Management Act. National Treasury
Regulations. National Building Regulations and Building Standard Act. Skills:
Required Technical proficiency. Decision making. Communication (verbal and
Written). Planning and organizing. Problem solving. Project or programme
management.
DUTIES : Perform schedule electrical preventative duties as per the maintenance plan to
support the objectives of the Fund. Conduct electrical component assessment
to effect all unplanned repairs and maintenance needs. Assess and monitor
electrical related contractors. Render administration duties for the section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MS Mokau at 060 971 4675
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct Your
Applications to: Jobs-CF3@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply
POST 21/27 : INSPECTOR: IES (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Springbok Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/8/114 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kuruman Ref No: HR 4/4/8/115 (X1 Post)
Ficksburg Labour Centre Ref No: HR 4/4/8/922 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year relevant qualification at NQF6 in Labour Relations/ BCOM Law/
LLB. Valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Departmental Policies and procedures,
Skills Development Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of Employment
Act, Unemployment Insurance Act. Unemployment Insurance Contribution Act.
Skills: Facilitation, Planning and Organising (Own work), Computer (Spread
sheets, Power Point and word processing), Interpersonal, Problem Solving,
Interviewing, Analytical, Verbal and written communication, Employment Equity
Act.
DUTIES : Conduct occupational inspections with the aim of ensuring compliance with all
labour legislations. Execute investigations on reported cases pertaining to
contravention of labour legislation and enforce where and when necessary.
Conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with
labour legislation. Conduct advocacy campaigns on identified and allocated
labour legislation. Assist in drafting of inspection plans, reports and compilation
of statistics on allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Litheko Tel No: (053) 838 1632
Mr Ayanda Kutuka Tel No: (058) 713 0373
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X5012, Kimberley, 8301 OR
hand deliver at Laboria House, c/o Pniel & Compound Street, Kimberley. Email:
Jobs-NCKIM@labour.gov.za
Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein, 9300
Or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: jobs-fs6@labour.gov.za For Attention: Sub-directorate: Human
Resources Operations, Free State.
17
POST 21/28 : CLAIMS PROCESSOR: COMPENSATION FUND (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Gqeberha Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/4/4 (X2 Posts)
Mthatha Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/4/5 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year tertiary qualification degree/diploma at NQF6/7 in Public
Management/ Administration/ Social science/ OHS/Finance/HRM is required.
1-2 years’ experience in a compensation or medical claims processing
environment. Knowledge: Compensation Fund policies, procedures and
processes, Relevant Stakeholders, Human anatomy/Biology and medical
terminology, Customer Service (Batho Pele Principles), COID Tariffs, Public
Service Charter, Approved COID Delegation, Promotion of access to
Information Act, Road Accident Fund (RAF) Act and PFMA and Treasury
Regulations. Skills: Required Technical Proficiency, Numeracy, Business
Writing Skills, Required IT Skill, Communication (written and verbal), Data
Capturing, Data Capturing, Data and records management and Telephone
Skills and Etiquette.
DUTIES : Handle claims registration documentation, prepare for adjudication. Prepare
for medical claims processing and Render administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Ngqolowa Tel No: (041) 506 5000
Ms Z Zaula Tel No: (047) 501 5600
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, Private Bag X5080, Umtata, 5100,
Hand deliver at Manpower Building CNR Elliot and Madeira Street, Umtata,
5100. Email: Jobs-EC7@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, Private Bag X6045 Gqeberha,
6000, Hand deliver at VSN Centre 116-134 Govan Mbeki Avenue Gqeberha,
6000. Email: Jobs-EC7@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations
POST 21/29 : ACCOUNTING CLERK FINANCE REF NO: HR 4/4/8/930
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Free State
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with passed Commercial Subjects (Business Management,
Economics and Accounting) or with equivalent certificate. No experience
required. Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Treasury
Regulations. Financial prescripts and manuals. Batho Pele Principles.
Departmental Policies and Procedures. Skills: Planning and organising.
Computer literacy. Communication. Problem solving. Accounting. Analysis.
DUTIES : Compile and capture all financial transactions for the whole Province on
financial transversal system (e.g. BAS, Logis, PERSAL and safety-net).
Render proper record keeping of for future reference. Provide support in
monitor budget processes for the province. Administer Petty cash adherence
to petty cash guideline. Clear suspense accounts an unallocated accounts
before month closure.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Tokwe Tel No: (051) 505 6204
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein, 9300
Or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: Email: jobs-fs7@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Free State
POST 21/30 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: MANAGEMENT SUPPORT SERVICES REF
NO: HR 4/4/8/117
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Springbok
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/ Grade 12/ National Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Batho Pele
Principles. Departmental Policies. Treasury Regulations Skills: Verbal and
written communication. Interpersonal relations. Problem solving. Computer
Literacy. Analytical. Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : To render Supply Chain Management Function in a Labour Centre daily.
Provide a Finance and office management service to the Labour Centre daily.
Render a Human Resources Management. Responsible for training and
performance activities in a Labour Centre daily. Responsible for the records in
a Labour Centre daily.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Litheko Tel No: (053) 838 1632
18
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X5012, Kimberley, 8301 OR
hand deliver at Laboria House, c/o Pniel & Compound Street, Kimberley. Email:
Jobs-NCKIM@labour.gov.za
POST 21/31 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: DEDUCTIONS REF NO: GAP-PRET-23355930-
20250611-1
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matric/National Senior Certificate with Accounting as a passed
subject. No experience required. Knowledge: Basic knowledge of Accounting
System, Treasury Regulations, Financial Regulations. Skills: Computer
literacy, Communication (verbal and written), Writing, Accounting, Planning.
DUTIES : Administer Suspense Accounts. Administer Accounts Reconciliations, Tax,
IRP’5 Certificates, Debtors and PERSAL /BAS reconciliation. Administer
deductions for the Subsidized Vehicles, Medical Aid and Garnishee Orders.
Compile journals for travel invoices. Administrator Services benefits.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Johnathan Reddy Tel No: (012)309 4887
ESSA System Enquiries: Mr. Mthobisi Ngwenya at 066 481 8403 -
Mthobisi.Ngwenya@LABOUR.gov.za and Ms. Sameera Khan
Sameera.khan@labour.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Electronically applications
must be submitted online following link
https://essa.labour.gov.za/EssaOnline/WebBeans/ follow all steps.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Head Office
POST 21/32 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: FINANCIAL CONTROL REF NO: GAP-PRET-
83072951-20250611-1 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric/ National Senior Certificate with Accounting as a passed
subject. No experience required. Knowledge: Basic knowledge of PERSAL,
Extensive Knowledge of Basic Accounting System, Departmental policies,
Basic knowledge of intranet system, Financial Delegation and Authority,
Treasury Regulations, PFMA. Skills: Computer literacy, Communication (verbal
and writing), Analytical, Planning and organisation.
DUTIES : Handle and respond to all queries in relation to the Financial Control. Capture
BAS documents for the Department of Employment and Labour. Compile and
analyse Financial Control report documentation. Conduct inspections at Head
Office, Provincial Offices and Labour Centres for compliance of Treasury
Regulations and PFMA. Manage stationary and sage guarding of documents
by Financial Control section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Johnathan Reddy Tel No: (012) 309 4887
ESSA System Enquiries: Mr. Mthobisi Ngwenya at 066 481 8403 -
Mthobisi.Ngwenya@LABOUR.gov.za and Ms. Sameera Khan
Sameera.khan@labour.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Electronically applications
must be submitted online following link
https://essa.labour.gov.za/EssaOnline/WebBeans/ follow all steps.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Head Office
POST 21/33 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: SALARY PREPARATION REF NO: GAP-PRET-
18387357-20250611-1 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matric/ National Senior Certificate with accounting as a passed
subject. No experience required. Knowledge: Basic Accounting System,
Treasury Regulations, PFMA. Skills: Computer literacy, Communication,
Writing, Accounting, Ability to use a calculator, Ability to read BAS reports.
DUTIES : Implement salary benefits and deductions. Implement the recovering of staff
debts. Clearing of suspense accounts. Filing of documents. Create entities on
BAS and PERSAL.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Johnathan Reddy Tel No: (012) 309 4887
19
ESSA System Enquiries: Mr. Mthobisi Ngwenya at 066 481 8403 -
Mthobisi.Ngwenya@LABOUR.gov.za and Ms. Sameera Khan
Sameera.khan@labour.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Electronically applications
must be submitted online following link
https://essa.labour.gov.za/EssaOnline/WebBeans/ follow all steps.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Head Office
POST 21/34 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: SERVICE TERMINATIONS REF NO: GAP-PRET-
22577491-20250611-1 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric/National Senior Certificate with Accounting as a passed
subject. No experience required. Knowledge: Basic knowledge of Accounting
System, Treasury Regulations, PERSAL system, PFMA. Skills: Computer
literacy, Communication (verbal and written), writing, Accounting.
DUTIES : Determine, process service benefit and liabilities. Clear suspense accounts.
Correctly perform monthly reconciliations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Johnathan Reddy Tel No: (012) 309 4887
ESSA System Enquiries: Mr. Mthobisi Ngwenya at 066 481 8403 -
Mthobisi.Ngwenya@LABOUR.gov.za and Ms. Sameera Khan
Sameera.khan@labour.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Electronically applications
must be submitted online following link
https://essa.labour.gov.za/EssaOnline/WebBeans/ follow all steps.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Head Office
POST 21/35 : PROVISIONING CLERK: TENDER ADMINISTRATION/ACQUISITION REF
NO: GAP-PRET-19165048-20250611-1 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/Grade 12/Matriculation/National Senior Certificate. Knowledge:
Public Service Act, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Supply Chain
Management Framework, Departmental policies and procedures, Treasury
Regulations, Prescriptions/directives issued by National Treasury and
Departments, Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment Act, Policy
guidelines and framework for SCM and PFMA, Computer Systems, LOGIS and
BAS, LOGIS System, Batho Pele Principles, National Treasury Act, State
Tender Board Act. Skills: Client orientation and customer focus, Computer
literacy, Interpersonal relations, Conflict management, Communication (written
and verbal).
DUTIES : Provide administration services to the Sub-Bid Adjudication Committee
(SBAC). Provide administration services to the Departmental Bid Adjudication
Committee (DBAC). Render administration support services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Themba Maseko Tel No: (012) 309 4826
ESSA System Enquiries: Mr. Mthobisi Ngwenya at 066 481 8403 -
Mthobisi.Ngwenya@LABOUR.gov.za and Ms. Sameera Khan
Sameera.khan@labour.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Electronically applications
must be submitted online following link
https://essa.labour.gov.za/EssaOnline/WebBeans/ follow all steps.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Head Office
POST 21/36 : SENIOR REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: GAP-PRET-21833737-20250611-1
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matric/ National Senior Certificate. No experience required.
Knowledge: Registry and Records management, Batho Pele Principles. Skills:
Computer literacy, Customer Relations, Interpersonal relationship.
20
DUTIES : Render effective and efficient Registry Services. Opening of file according to
approved records classification/File Plan. Process records for archiving and
disposal. Handle incoming and outgoing departmental correspondence.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PNR Tshitaudzi Tel No: (012) 309 4110
ESSA System Enquiries: Mr. Mthobisi Ngwenya - 066 481 8403 -
Mthobisi.Ngwenya@LABOUR.gov.za and Ms. Sameera Khan
Sameera.khan@labour.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Electronically applications
must be submitted online following link
https://essa.labour.gov.za/EssaOnline/WebBeans/ follow all steps.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Head Office
POST 21/37 : SENIOR ADMIN CLERK (ACCOUNTS AND BOOKINGS) REF NO: GAP-
PRET-23521830-20250611-1
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matric/ National Senior Certificate. No experience required.
Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) Departmental policies
and procedures, Project management, Intermediate Human Resources
Development, Public Service Regulations. Skills: Leadership Facilitation,
Computer Literacy, Presentation, Analytical, Verbal and written
communication.
DUTIES : Check completeness and correctness of bookings for air travel, hotel
accommodation and conference venues in the Department. Consolidate
information of invoices and prepare payment to service providers. Check that
irregular, Fruitless and Wasteful Expenditure are recorded and reported. Verify
compliance on Travel IT.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Kgare Tel No: (012) 309 4485/072 611 5798
ESSA System Enquiries: Mr. Mthobisi Ngwenya at 066 481 8403 -
Mthobisi.Ngwenya@LABOUR.gov.za and Ms. Sameera Khan
Sameera.khan@labour.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Electronically applications
must be submitted online following link
https://essa.labour.gov.za/EssaOnline/WebBeans/ follow all steps.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Head Office
POST 21/38 : OFFICE AID REF NO: HR 4/4/8/926
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Parys Satellite Office
REQUIREMENTS : Standard 8/ Grade 10. No experience. Knowledge: Cleaning Practices,
Catering, Office Practice. Skills: Interpersonal relations, Verbal
communications, Listening.
DUTIES : Ensure a clean office environment at all times. Provide food services aid. Assist
in distributing stock. Assist with messenger functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Malope, Tel: (056) 215 1812
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein, 9300
Or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: Email: jobs-fs2@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Free State
21
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer.
APPLICATIONS : Cape Town: Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of
Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment, The Director: Integrated Human
Resource Management, Private Bag X4390, Cape Town, 8000 or hand-deliver
to 14 Loop Street, Cape Town or can be emailed to the respective email
address quoting the reference number on the subject email.
Pretoria: Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of Forestry,
Fisheries and the Environment, Private Bag X447, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-
delivered to: Environment House, Erf 1563 Arcadia Extension 6, Cnr
Soutpansberg and Steve Biko Road, Arcadia, Pretoria. or can be emailed to
the respective email address quoting the reference number on the subject
email.
FOR ATTENTION : Human Resource Management
CLOSING DATE : 07 July 2025, 17H00
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a signed Z83 form obtainable from any Public
Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae only,
to be considered. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
copies of qualifications, Senior Certificate, identity document and driver’s
license on or before the day of the interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility
to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the
Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. Preference
may be given to appointable applicants from the underrepresented designated
groups in terms of the Department’s equity plan. Persons with disabilities are
encouraged to apply. Correspondence will be limited to successful candidates
only. Short-listed candidates will be subjected to screening and security vetting
to determine their suitability for employment, including but not limited to:
Criminal records; Citizenship status; Credit worthiness; Previous employment
(reference checks); and Qualification verification. Short-listed candidates will
be expected to avail themselves at the Department’s convenience. Entry level
requirements for SMS posts: In terms of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity
Development, Mandatory Training Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for
SMS that was introduced on 1 April 2015, a requirement for all applicants for
SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-Entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government (NSG) prior to appointment. The course is available at the NSG
under the name Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be
obtained by following the below link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entryprogramme. Furthermore, Shortlisted candidates must
provide proof of successful completion of the course. All candidates shortlisted
for the posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job. Following the interview and the technical
exercise of all SMS posts, the Selection Panel will recommend candidates to
attend a generic managerial competency assessment in compliance with the
DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments.
Persons appointed will be subjected to a security clearance, the signing of
performance agreement and employment contract. The Department reserves
the right not to make an appointment. If you have not been contacted within
three 3 months after the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. By submitting the employment application
form, you agree and consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your personal
information which you provide to the DFFE to being processed by the
department and its employees, agents, Cabinet committees, and
subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in accordance with the POPIA of
2013.
22
OTHER POSTS
POST 21/39 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A: AIR QUALITY
AUTHORISATIONS POSTS REF NO: CCAQ07/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R612 480 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A four (4) year Degree (NQF Level 8) in Natural or Environmental
Management/Sciences or equivalent qualification within the related field plus 6
years post qualification experience in the relevant field. Knowledge of the
National Environmental Management Air Quality Act; atmospheric emission
license regulatory requirements, processes and procedures; industrial process
and abatement technologies, especially those relating to emissions to the air
and the atmosphere; Environmental Impact Assessment procedures.
Knowledge management, service delivery innovation, problem solving and
analysis, people management and empowerment, client orientation and
customer focus communication, client relations, stakeholder engagement,
public relations research, strategic capacity and leadership. Good
interpersonal relations skills, articulate, ability to work with difficult people and
to resolve conflict, ability to work under pressure, sense of responsibility and
loyalty, initiative and creativity. Ability to gather and analyze information. Ability
to work individually and in a team. Team player. Goal oriented. Loyalty.
Commitment. Honesty and integrity. Enthusiasm. Reliability. Positive self-
esteem. Initiative and creativity. Self-Motivated. Adaptability. Honesty.
DUTIES : Manage and process of atmospheric emission license applications within
legislated timeframes. Review provisional/atmospheric emission licenses
compliance reports for all facilities that have commence operation. Review of
Environmental Impact Assessment reports within required timeframes.
Manage emissions reporting related requirements of departmental
atmospheric emission licensed facilities. Participate and provide assistance in
Compliance and Enforcement activities of the licensed facilities.
ENQUIRIES : Dr P Gwaze Tel No: (012) 399 9362
APPLICATIONS : CCAQ07-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 21/40 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A: POSTPONEMENT
MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION REF NO: CCAQ08/2025
SALARY : R612 480 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A four (4) year Degree (NQF Level 8) in Natural or Environmental
Management/Sciences or equivalent qualification within the related field plus 6
years post qualification experience in the relevant field. Knowledge of
environmental management or natural sciences, public service prescripts and
procedures. Knowledge of the National Environmental Management Air Quality
Act and atmospheric emission license regulatory requirements. Good
understanding of compliance postponement procedures and the coordination
of the National Air Quality Officer functions related to air quality authorizations
and postponements. Knowledge management, service delivery innovation,
problem solving and analysis, people management and empowerment, client
orientation and customer focus communication, client relations, stakeholder
engagement, public relations research, strategic capacity and leadership.
Good interpersonal relations skills, articulate, ability to work with difficult people
and to resolve conflict, ability to work under pressure, sense of responsibility
and loyalty, initiative and creativity. Ability to gather and analyze information.
Ability to develop and apply policies. Ability to work individually and in a team.
Team player. Goal oriented. Loyalty. Commitment. Honesty and integrity.
Enthusiasm. Reliability. Positive self-esteem. Initiative and creativity. Self-
Motivated. Adaptability. Honesty.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate of postponement applications. Analyze postponement
applications. Providing advisory to the National Air Quality Officer regarding all
postponement decision making. Monitor the implementation of postponement
compliance roadmaps and related projects. Effective monitoring of the
implementation of air quality offset projects. Provide technical support in the
processing of Atmospheric Emissions License applications.
ENQUIRIES : Dr P Gwaze Tel No: (012) 399 9362
APPLICATIONS : CCAQ08-2025@dffe.gov.za
23
POST 21/41 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL CONTROL AND COMPLIANCE REF
NO: CFO12/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) in Auditing, Accounting, Financial Management, or
relevant qualification with accounting as major subject. A minimum of three (3)
years’ experience in internal control/ Supply Chain Management/ Auditing,
Financial Management or related field. Knowledge: Demonstrated an in-depth
knowledge of the legislative environment applicable to government finance and
supply chain management and the development, implementation and
monitoring of related policies and procedures within a government
environment. Knowledge of relevant prescripts (PFMA, Treasury regulations,
BBBEE Act, PPPFA). Knowledge and experience on BAS, LOGIS and
PERSAL will be an advantage. Ability to establish and manage financial
management systems and controls. Skills: The ability to maintain high levels of
confidentiality and to prioritize work in high-pressure environments. Good
interpersonal, administrative, managerial skills, communication (verbal and
writing) skills. Ability to interpret and evaluating information. Conflict
management skills. Skills in policy formulation and review, financial
management. Knowledge management and change management. Ability to
work independently and in a team. Be able to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Investigate irregular and fruitless and wasteful expenditure, identify potential
financial risks (inclusive of fraud risks) and facilitate management action to
mitigate the identified risks. Test and monitor level of compliance to enabling
legislation: PFMA, Treasury Regulations, SCM and HR prescripts by
performing assessments and raise findings on areas of concern relating to
weaknesses in controls to assist and enhance effectiveness of the process.
Monitor the implementation of internal and external audit recommendations
based on the audit results. Attend audit steering committee meetings. Monitor
the progress of audit recommendations, Coordinate, monitor and report on
fruitless and wasteful expenditure registers. Coordinate, monitor and report on
irregular expenditure registers. Monitor and strengthen the control environment
within the Department through performance of planned internal control
assessments, of Quarterly key control assessments and follow through of all
data analysis reviews. Co-ordinate the assurance process (e.g., response to
external and internal auditor’s queries, management responses, etc.) and
facilitate the development and implementation of Departmental action plans to
address identified control deficiencies relating to Irregular Expenditure and
Fruitless and Wasteful Expenditure. Facilitate the implementation and
maintenance of Departmental loss control system and serve as secretariat of
the Departmental Loss Control Committee.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Madonsela at 076 020 0098
APPLICATIONS : CFO12-2025@dffe.gov.za
24
ANNEXURE D
GOVERNMENT COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION SYSTEM (GCIS)
The GCIS is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1)
(i) of the Constitution of South Africa of 1996, the Employment Equity (EE) imperatives as defined by the
EE Act of 1998 (Act 55 of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of the department will be taken
into consideration. People with disabilities will be accommodated within reasonable limits. Therefore,
preference will be given to candidates whose appointment will assist the department in achieving its EE
targets in terms of the department’s EE Plan. People with disabilities will be given preference regardless
of race or gender.
APPLICATIONS : The Director-General (DG) of GCIS, Private Bag X745, Pretoria, 0001, hand
deliver to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 cnr Francis Baard & Festival streets,
Hatfield, Pretoria, or to the email address provided.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P. Kgopyane
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
NOTE : Applicants with disabilities are encouraged to apply. The old prescribed
application or employment form Z83 was withdrawn with effect from 31
December 2020. As per the Government Gazette No: 43872, any applicant
who submits an application on or after 1 January 2021 must do so on the new
prescribed Z83 form, obtainable from any Public Service department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Failure to submit an application on the new
prescribed Z83 form will lead to disqualification. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit the fully completed and signed Z83 form and a detailed curriculum
vitae only. Communication regarding submission of certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents will be limited to shortlisted
candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified documents on or before the day of the interview, following
communication from the department. Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applicants who do not comply
with the above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late,
will not be considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. The successful candidate must disclose to the DG particulars of
all registrable financial interests, sign a performance agreement and
employment contract with the DG within three months from the date of
assumption of duty and obtain a top-secret security clearance. All
appointments are subject to the verification of educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. The
department reserves the right to fill or not to fill the vacant post. The successful
candidates will sign an employment contract with the GCIS that will be
reviewed based on performance expiration. By submitting the employment
application form, you agree and consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) of 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for
your personal information which you provide to the GCIS to being processed
by the department and its employees, agents, Cabinet committees and
subcontractors for recruitment purposes in accordance with POPIA.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 21/42 : DIRECTOR: COMMUNICATION RESOURCE CENTRE REF NO: 3/1/5/1-
25/13
Chief Directorate: Research Analysis and Knowledge Services
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package) of which 30%
may be structured according to the individual’s needs
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate Bachelor’s Degree (NQF
7) as recognised by SAQA in Journalism/ Media Studies/ Communication/
Public Relations or related field majoring in Journalism/Media/ Communication/
Public Relations. Successful completion of the Nyukela Pre-entry Certificate to
Senior Management Services (SMS) is a requirement for appointment. Five (5)
years’ experience at middle/senior management level with extensive
experience in understanding of government policies, procedures and the ability
25
to translate complex information into accessible content, developing messages
that resonate with readers and aligns with government communication
standards in creating clear, concise and engaging content. Proven leadership
capabilities and sound interpersonal skills. Required core competencies:
Strategic capacity and leadership, people management and empowerment,
financial management, change management, risk management, programme
and project management. Process competencies: Computer literacy,
knowledge management, service innovation, problem solving and analysis,
client orientation, customer focus and communication. Knowledge of the
Medium-Term Development Plan and deep understanding of subject matter
and current events in the communication environment. Excellent writing as well
as research skills to ensure the accuracy and relevance of the content.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for guiding and managing the
development of key messages within the department and on behalf of
government structures; editing and proofreading of key messages; keeping a
register of key messages developed that reflect interpretation of research data;
guiding and managing content development including speech writing; opinion
pieces editing and proof reading of all relevant communication content. Do
extensive reading and research for interpretation of key issues. Compile
monthly, quarterly and annual Organisational Performance Management
System reports on the activities of the directorate. Manage the provision of
national and international print, broadcast and online media monitoring to the
department and other government structures; manage the implementation of
breaking national and international news system to the department and other
government structures; provision of print, broadcast and online media
coverage reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ntombifuthi Nala Tel No: (012) 473 0218
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 Cnr
Francis Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to
recruitment@gcis.gov.za
NOTE : It is a pre-requisite for candidates to have the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-
Entry Programme certificate to be eligible for appointment. For further details,
please click on the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course,
visit the National School of Government (NSG) website: www.thensg.gov.za.
The successful candidate must disclose to the Minister particulars of all
registrable financial interests and sign the employment contract within one
month from the date of assumption of duty as well as sign a performance
agreement within three months from the date of assumption of duty and obtain
a Top-Secret security clearance. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend generic
managerial competency assessment. Please detail courses passed in the CV
as per the academic transcript.
POST 21/43 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO: 3/1/5/1-25/14
Chief Directorate: Human Capital and Corporate Support
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package) of which 30%
may be structured according to the individual’s needs.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate Bachelor’s Degree (NQF
level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Human Resource Management/ Public
Administration with Human Resource Management as a major/ Public
Management with Human Resource Management as a major/ Industrial
Psychology with Human Resource Management as a major. Successful
completion of the Nyukela Pre-entry certificate to Senior Management Services
is a requirement for appointment. A valid driver’s license and advanced
computer skills. Experience and Knowledge: A minimum of 5 years’ experience
at Middle Management Service level with extensive experience in a Human
Resource Management environment. Proven Knowledge of PERSAL.
Thorough knowledge and understanding of Public Service regulatory
framework (legislation, directives and regulations) relating to the duties of this
position and must possess in-depth knowledge of policy formulation,
implementation and monitoring. Ability to communicate excellently across all
levels of employees in the department. Process competencies: Knowledge
management, service delivery innovation, problem solving and analysis, client
orientation and customer focus, communication. Required core competencies:
26
Strategic capacity and leadership, people management and empowerment,
financial management, change Management, programme and project
management.
DUTIES : Develop and implement human resources strategies and policies. Manage the
provision of human resource administration and recruitment services. Manage
the provision of HR planning, information management and HR systems
management services. Manage the development and maintenance of the
organisational structure and ensure alignment with the strategic plan of the
department. Manage the provision of operations management services
including organisational design, job evaluation services and work study
techniques. Manage the provision of labour relations services. Manage and
ensure effective and efficient utilisation of financial, human and physical
resources of the directorate in line with applicable legislation and communicate
with colleagues and stakeholders (internal and external) written, verbal and
formal presentation. Implement Annual Performance Plans, operational plans
and oversee the Audit and Risk Management processes of the directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Linda Kaseke Tel No: (012) 473 0128
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 Cnr
Francis Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to
recruitment@gcis.gov.za
NOTE : It is a pre-requisite for candidates to have the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-
Entry Programme certificate to be eligible for appointment. For further details,
please click on the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course,
visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za. The successful candidate must
disclose to the Minister particulars of all registrable financial interests and sign
the employment contract within one month from the date of assumption of duty
as well as sign a performance agreement within three months from the date of
assumption of duty and obtain a Top-Secret security clearance. Following the
interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend
candidates to attend generic managerial competency assessment. Please
detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic transcript.
OTHER POSTS
POST 21/44 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BUSINESS ENHANCEMENT AND
INDUSTRIALISATION REF NO: 3/1/5/1-25/15
Directorate: Business Enhancement and Industrialisation
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), an all-inclusive package, of which 30% may
be structured according to the individual’s needs
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate National Diploma (NQF
6) / Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 7) as recognised by SAQA in Business
Administration/ Public Management/ or Media Studies, Public Relations,
Journalism. Four (4) years’ relevant experience of which two (2) years should
be on salary level nine (9) or ten (10) in the transformation and/or social
development environment. Knowledge and understanding of the B-BBEE
verification Framework, B-BBEE Strategy, Act, Codes and Regulations.
Strategic capability and leadership skills, communication skills (verbal and
written), analytical skills, presentation skills, organisational planning and
customer focus. Knowledge and understanding of PFMA, Treasury
Regulations, Public Service Act, Employment Equity Act, Skills Development
Act, B-BBEE Act, PPPFA and problem solving, initiative, strong
communication, consultative, strategic planning, presentation, time
management, planning and organising, analytical/ judgment and decision-
making, negotiation and good existing network, assertiveness, regulations.
Proficient in MS Office packages.
DUTIES : Research and keep abreast with developments in the industry. Provide
secretariat support and administrative services to Marketing, Advertising and
Communications (MAC) Charter Council, ensuring compliance with all
applicable legislation, corporate governance regulations and guidelines.
Stakeholder Management: Facilitate and managing complaints against South
African National Accreditation System (SANAS) accredited B-BBEE
verification agencies in the MAC sector. Manage the compilation and update
of the SANAS accredited verification agencies’ complaints register. Provide
technical support, secretarial function and facilitate the implementation of B-
27
BBEE implementation. Reporting: Generate quarterly reports on the
Performance Council Sub-Committee for consideration and recommendations
by Council. Policy Development: Develop and review policies of Council for
approval. Manage the research strategies for alignment of Council to advance
the objectives of B-BBEE Act of 2003 and the Codes of Good Practice. Manage
workshops, conferences and road shows for Sub Committees and MAC Sector
Carter Council. Manage the correspondence and communication to and from
the Councils. Manage the appointment of sub-committee members of the
Council. Develop and implement a communication strategy for the Council.
Collate and analyse B-BBEE information of reporting to authorities. Contribute
to overall monitoring and evaluation of B-BBEE. Conduct B-BBEE research on
the Codes of Good Practice to review progress in achieving B-BBBEE for the
public and private sectors. Manage correspondence from MAC Sector Charter
Council. Carry out any request for and on behalf of the MAC Sector Charter
Councill and all its sub-committees. Monitor financial resources and assets of
the unit. To implement the corporate governance framework activities across
the business through the planning, directing and coordination of all governance
practices. To act as the main liaison between the Council and various
stakeholders. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic
transcript.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Sandile Nene Tel No: (012) 473 0061
APPLICATIONS : applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 Cnr
Francis Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to
recruitment@gcis.gov.za
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post.
POST 21/45 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SYSTEM DEVELOPER REF NO: 3/1/5/1-25/16
Directorate: Information Management Systems
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), an all-inclusive package, of which 30% may
be structured according to the individual’s needs
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate National Diploma (NQF
Level 6) or a Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) as recognised by SAQA in
Computer Science or Information Technology or an equivalent qualification,
specializing in System Development. Four (4) years’ relevant experience of
which two (2) years should be on salary level nine (9) or ten (10) in system
development according to the System Development Life Cycle (SDLC).
Knowledge of Public Service Policy and Regulatory Framework and other
relevant regulations; Knowledge and understanding of relational database
management systems. Understanding of SDLC Phases and its outputs.
Understanding of Business Intelligence (BI) and the potential and opportunities
of using Artificial Intelligence (AI). An understanding of strategic planning and
financial management and government policies. Project management,
knowledge of SharePoint development and administration, and Microsoft
Power Platforms development. Experience working with SQL, HTML, VB, C#,
.Net Core; systems and SQL Server 2017 or later. Analysis, documentation and
problem-solving skills, with exposure to BI tools such as Microsoft SQL Server
Reporting Services or Power BI. Excellent managerial, communication and
interpersonal relationship skills, leadership and organisational skills, policy
development, negotiation and consultation skills, creativity, and innovation.
Technical expertise in advance strategic and business analysis. An
understanding of the regulatory framework for the management of IT in
government. Programme management with service delivery orientation, and
client focused. Change management. A logical, creative and innovative thinker
focused and precise with a strong ability to analyse and interpret information.
DUTIES : Develop and maintain web-based systems. Manage all system acquisition,
maintenance and support (in-house and outsourced systems) within the
department. Develop BI dashboards and reports for various systems. Conduct
user training and system documentation. Evaluate, investigate and apply
innovative technologies to enhance Information Management Systems within
GCIS. Perform system administration functions, administer and co-ordinate the
user acceptance testing, and functional system testing with main users and
28
business owners of the system, and promote the utilisation of technology as a
key enabler for service delivery and transformation. Please detail courses
passed in the CV as per the academic transcript.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Cathy Chen Tel No: (012) 4730043
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 cnr Francis
Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to
recruitment@gcis.gov.za
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post.
POST 21/46 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: COMMUNICATION AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: 3/1/5/1-25/17
Directorate: Communication and Institutional Development
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), an all-inclusive package, of which 30% may
be structured according to the individual’s needs
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate National Diploma (NQF
6) / Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 7) as recognised by SAQA in Journalism/ Media
Studies/ Communication/ Public Relations or related field majoring in
Journalism/Media/ Communication/ Public Relations. Four (4) years relevant
experience in government communication training coordination experience of
which two (2) years should be on salary level nine (9) or ten (10). The candidate
must have strong understanding of the government communications
stakeholder base and key areas for training of communicators and political
principals. Proven in-depth knowledge of the communication system and
relationship to communication training. Competencies required: Capability,
understanding of administrative and coordination roles. Understanding of
government communication training processes. Financial management,
people management, service delivery innovation, communication (written &
verbal) skills, problem solving and analysis, stakeholder engagement and
customer service, data capturing and analysis and report writing, team worker,
knowledge of various communication platforms, communication writing and
development of training materials and products.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing overall
administrative support to the Communication Training and Institutional
Development Directorate. Engage and coordinate the participation of
government communicators in already established courses provided by
accredited learning institutions. Assist to monitor the implementation of
developed training programmes offered to government communicators and
political principals. Work with departments to identify new communicators
within the system and conduct induction sessions for them. Assist to evaluate
the effectiveness of training and development programme being rolled out and
write reports. Produce monthly and quarterly communication training and
development reports. Interact with various training institutions and
stakeholders who can provide training programmes for government
messengers. Play a crucial role in the coordination and development of
communication content. Coordinate and produce training and development
materials and other products for programme attendees. Play a role in the
development and implementation of communication training schedule and
strategy. Coordinate internal stakeholders for the facilitation of training
programmes. Identify and build a database of various service providers who
can assist in training government communicators. Facilitate and conduct
communications training workshops. Prepare and monitor training and
development budgets. Support in the management of all resources, people
management, in in directorate strategic planning processes. Play a crucial role
in the risk reporting and ensure follow-up on all audit assignments. Develop
and verify all reports. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the
academic transcript.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Tiisetso Ramotse Tel No: (012) 473 0204
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 cnr Francis
Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to
recruitment@gcis.gov.za
29
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post.
POST 21/47 : REGIONAL COMMUNICATION COORDINATOR: LIASON REF NO: 3/1/5/1-
25/18
Directorate: Northern Cape Provincial Office
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : John Taolo Gaetsewe District
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate National Diploma (NQF
6) / Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 7) as recognised by SAQA in Journalism/ Media
Studies/ Communication/ Public Relations majoring in Journalism/Media/
Communication/ Public Relations in Communication. Three (3) years’ relevant
experience of which one (1) year should be on salary level seven (7) or eight
(8) in the communications environment with knowledge of communication
disciplines, including media liaison, stakeholder relations, research and
development communication. The candidate must have an understanding of
development communication practice, and knowledge of Northern Cape
Province with specific insights to John Taolo Gaetsewe district and its local
municipalities. Proficiency in local languages will be an added advantage. Be
innovative, digital literate and abreast with digital communication methods and
applications. A self-motivated and enthusiastic person able to work with limited
levels of supervision. Strong verbal and effective writing and communication
skills. Furthermore, applicant should be in possession of a valid Code 08
driver’s licence as the work involves extensive travelling. Basic knowledge of
administration and finances is required. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will support the Deputy Director: Liaison in the
implementation of a Government Communication Policy (GCP) in John Taolo
Gaetsewe District to disseminate government information and implement key
communication projects in line with government priorities and in accordance
with the guidelines for development communication practice and platforms as
developed by GCIS. Supervise and monitor the work of district-based Senior
Communication Officers (if any) as well as any communication interns or
learners assigned to the region, including their administrative and operational
functions and report these to the Deputy Director: Provincial Liaison.
Leadership in government communication system coordination in John Taolo
Gaetsewe District. Ensure the establishment and where necessary review and
strengthening of communication coordination structures in the district to ensure
the effective cascading of government communication content especially to
leaders and structures of local government across the district. Ensure
adherence to government communication system norms and standards in the
district in line with the government communication policy. Support all initiatives
aimed at strengthening Local Government Communication System through
advocacy in strategic Inter-governmental Relations (IGR) structures at district
and local level. Further, provide communication support to various integrated
service delivery models of government, including the District Development
Model (DDM) and the Thusong Service Centre programme. Embrace new
media and utilise digital tools as part of cascading government content.
Responsible for the development and maintenance of high-level stakeholder
relations in the region with biasness towards civil society, community media,
minority groups, local government and traditional leaders. Coordination and
implementation of rapid response requirements in the district as well as writing
service delivery articles on the government’s delivery on its mandate.
Responsible for the revision and development of a localised distribution
strategy for government information products at district level. Additionally, on a
regular basis, be required to develop local communication environment
assessments reports on key issues emanating from the district for the use by
various stakeholders and clients. Support government public participation
initiatives, including feedback and follow-up on the required communication
interventions as recommended. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per
the academic transcript.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Charles Moeti Tel No: (053) 832 1378/1315
30
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 Cnr
Francis Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to
recruitment@gcis.gov.za
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post.
POST 21/48 : REGIONAL COMMUNICATION COORDINATOR: LIASON REF NO: 3/1/5/1-
25/19
Directorate: Western Cape Provincial Office
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Overberg
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate National Diploma (NQF
6) / Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 7) as recognised by SAQA in Journalism/ Media
Studies/ Communication/ Public Relations majoring in Journalism/Media/
Communication. Three (3) years’ relevant experience of which one (1) year
should be on salary level seven (7) or eight (8) in the communications
environment with knowledge of communication disciplines, including media
liaison, stakeholder relations, research and development communication. The
candidate must have an understanding of development communication
practice, and knowledge of Western Cape Province with specific insights to
Overberg district and its local municipalities. Be innovative, digital literate and
abreast with digital communication methods and applications. A self-motivated
and enthusiastic person able to work with limited levels of supervision. Strong
verbal and effective writing and communication skills. Furthermore, applicant
should be in possession of a valid Code 08 driver’s licence as the work involves
extensive travelling. Basic knowledge of administration and finances is
required. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will support the Deputy Director: Liaison in the
implementation of a government communication programme (GCP) in
Overberg District as follows: Disseminate government information and
implement key communication projects in line with government priorities and
in accordance with the guidelines for development communication practice and
platforms as developed by GCIS. Supervise and monitor the work of district
based Senior Communication Officers (if any) as well as any communication
interns or learners assigned to the region, including their administrative and
operational functions, and report these to the Deputy Director: Provincial
Liaison. Leadership in government communication system coordination in
Overberg district. Ensure the establishment and where necessary review and
strengthening of communication coordination structures in the district to ensure
the effective cascading of government communication content especially to
leaders and structures of local government across the district. Ensure
adherence to government communication system norms and standards in the
district in line with the government communication policy. Support all initiatives
aimed at strengthening Local Government Communication System through
advocacy in strategic IGR structures at District and local level. Further, provide
communication support to various integrated service delivery models of
government, including the District Development Model (DDM) and the Thusong
Service Centre programme. Embrace new media and utilise digital tools as part
of cascading government content. Responsible for the development and
maintenance of high-level stakeholder relations in the region with biasness
towards civil society, community media, minority groups, local government and
traditional leaders. Coordination and implementation of rapid response
requirements in the district as well as writing service delivery articles on
governments’ delivery on its mandate. Responsible for the revision and
development of a localised distribution strategy for government information
products at district level. Additionally, on a regular basis, be required to develop
local communication environment assessments reports on key issues
emanating from the district for the use by various stakeholders and clients.
Support government public participation initiatives including feedback and
follow up on the required communication interventions as recommended.
Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic transcript.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Geraldine Thopps Tel No: (021) 418 0533
31
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 cnr Francis
Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to
recruitment@gcis.gov.za
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post.
POST 21/49 : REGIONAL COMMUNICATION COORDINATOR: AMAJUBA DISTRICT REF
NO: 3/1/5/1-25/20
Directorate: Provincial Liaison KwaZulu-Natal
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Amajuba District
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate National Diploma (NQF
6) / Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 7) as recognised by SAQA in Journalism/ Media
Studies/ Communication/ Public Relations majoring in Journalism/Media/
Communication. Three (3) years’ relevant experience of which one (1) year
should be on salary level seven (7) or eight (8) in the communications
environment with knowledge of communication disciplines, including media
liaison, research and development communication. The applicant must have
an understanding of development communication, and knowledge of the
KwaZulu Natal Province with specific insights into the Amajuba District and its
local municipalities. The applicant must be conversant in isiZulu language and
be able to conduct development communication campaigns in local languages.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible to support the Deputy Director:
Liaison in the implementation of a strategic government communication
function in the Amajuba District as follows: implement key communication
projects guided in line with government priorities and in accordance with the
guidelines for development communication practice and platforms as
developed by GCIS. Provide strategic communication support in the district,
including the monitoring and supervision of the work of the district based
communication interns or learners assigned to the region, including their
administrative and operational functions, and report these to the Deputy
Director: Provincial Liaison. Ensure the establishment and where necessary
review and strengthening of communication coordination structures in the
District to ensure the effective cascading of government communication
content especially to leaders and structures of local government across the
district. The candidate will support all initiatives aimed at strengthening Local
government communication system through interface with strategic IGR
structures at local level. The candidate will further provide communication
support in various integrated service delivery models of government such as
the Thusong service centre programme. The successful candidate will also be
responsible for the development and maintenance of effective high level
stakeholder relations in the region with a bias towards civil society, minority
groups, local government and traditional leaders. A strategy to this end will be
one of the first necessary deliverables. Coordination and implementation of
rapid response requirements in the district; as well as writing articles on
government developments in the region from time to time. The regional
coordinator will also be responsible for the revision and development of a new
regional distribution strategy for government information products. The
successful candidate will additionally, on a regular basis, be required to
develop local communication environment assessments of the district for use
by various stakeholders and clients with required communication interventions
recommended. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic
transcript.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ndala Mngadi Tel No: (031) 301 6787
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 cnr Francis
Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to
recruitment@gcis.gov.za
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post.
32
POST 21/50 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CONTENT, DIGITAL COMMUNICATION AND
KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT REF NO: 3/1/5/1-25/21
Directorate: East London
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : East London
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate National Diploma (NQF
6) / Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 7) as recognised by SAQA in Journalism/ Media
Studies/ Communication/ Public Relations majoring in Journalism/Media/
Communication/ Public Relations in Communication. Three (3) years’ relevant
experience of which one (1) year should be on salary level seven (7) or eight
(8) in the communications environment with knowledge of digital
communication/marketing and communication disciplines such as
development communication, content development, media liaison, stakeholder
relations, research and development communication. Computer literate with
good interpersonal and presentation skills. A valid code 8 driver's license is an
essential requirement, as the work entails extensive travelling.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will lead on digital communication related
innovations and provide support in overseeing the digital and online work of
the Provincial Office. Oversee, generate and localise content for usage through
digital and on-line platforms. Design information products for Provincial digital
and online platforms. Serve as the Sub-project Desk for information
management in the Provincial Office. Serve as Provincial office stakeholder
and content repository. Support the Deputy Director (DD): Liaison in
coordinating implementation of projects and the monitoring & evaluation of
work done by GCIS District/Metro based officials. Support the DD in the
extension of local government Communication System in the Eastern Cape.
Oversee the distribution of information in the Provincial and District offices.
Responsible for dissemination of government information in the province.
Responsible for the revision and development of a Provincial distribution
strategy for government information products. Quality assures the corporate
and branding identity of government information products. Responsible for the
development and maintenance of high-level stakeholder relations in the
province. Support the coordination and implementation of rapid response
requirements in the province. Support to government public participation
initiatives such as Imbizo including feedback and follow up on the required
communication interventions as recommended. The candidate will be
responsible for the monitoring and evaluation of the work of the GCIS Eastern
Cape Office including evidence verification, document management, desktop
research duties and impact assessments. Please detail courses passed in the
CV as per the academic transcript.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Ndlelantle Pinyana Tel No: (043) 722 602/9
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 cnr Francis
Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to
recruitment@gcis.gov.za
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post.
POST 21/51 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: VIDEO CAMERAMAN REF NO: 3/1/5/1-25/22
Directorate: Media Production
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate National Diploma (NQF
6) / Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 7) as recognised by SAQA in Media Studies/
Video Production/ Motion Graphics or related equivalent qualification majoring
in Media Studies/ Videography/ Video Production/ Motion Graphics. Three (3)
years’ relevant experience of which one (1) year should be on salary level
seven (7) or eight (8). Knowledge of government communication with good
interpersonal and communication skills. Must have a strong knowledge and
understanding of the PFMA and Supply Chain Management processes. Have
a strong knowledge of video production and an understanding of the use of
professional video cameras and other related equipment. Be able to do on
location lighting and sound operation. Must be able to work independently or
33
with less supervision. Be a good team worker. Deliver a good quality of work
with good editing skills on Final Cut Pro, Adobe Premier or similar programmes.
Must be computer literate with strong coordination, client orientation and
project management skills. Very strong ability and preparedness to work under
pressure, in a fluctuating environment with good time management skills.
Should be highly motivated and driven with an eye for detail. Must have a valid
light motor vehicle driver’s license and be prepared to travel extensively away
from Head Office.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing high quality videos,
with emphasis on editing and animation for different platforms including for
broadcasting and digital platforms. Performing camera work and edit inserts on
all Government assignments/programmes and the Presidency engagements.
Archiving and logging of all recorded footage and videos produced. Assist with
teleprompter operations and live streaming. Performing basic administrative
duties related to the responsibility of the unit. Assist other disciplines within the
Media Production Directorate as and when required. The candidate must have
knowledge of video production and an understanding of the use of professional
video cameras and other related equipment. Ability to deliver good quality of
work with good editing skills on Final Cut Pro, Premier Pro or similar
programmes. Be proficient in producing quality animation with software such
as After-effects, Cinema4D, Photoshop and Illustrator amongst others. Have a
basic understanding of live streaming. Be able to produce, upload and or share
videos on different online platforms. Must be computer literate with strong
coordination, client orientation and project management skills. Very strong
ability to work under pressure, in a fluctuating environment with good time
management skills. Should be highly motivated and driven with an eye for
detail. The applicant should have knowledge of government communication
with good interpersonal and communication skills. Have
knowledge/understanding of the PFMA and Supply Chain Management
processes. Must have a light motor vehicle driver’s licence as the post entails
extensive travelling away from Head Office. Please detail courses passed in
the CV as per the academic transcript.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Gasegoitse Phatudi Tel No: (012) 473 0091
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 cnr Francis
Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to
recruitment@gcis.gov.za
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post.
POST 21/52 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: GRAPHIC DESIGNER REF NO: 3/1/5/1-25/23
Directorate: Media Production
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate National Diploma (NQF
6) / Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 7) as recognised by SAQA in Graphic Design or
equivalent related qualification majoring in Graphic Design. Three (3) years’
relevant experience of which one (1) year should be on salary level seven (7)
or eight (8). Must be proficient in the use of an Apple Macintosh computer. Must
be proficient in Adobe Illustrator, Photoshop and InDesign (web and 3-D skills
will be an added advantage). Must have ability to develop basic animation.
Must have the ability to develop creative and innovative design concepts.
Ability to develop work from concept through to final product. Strong design
skills and thorough knowledge of designing for different platforms including
digital and social media. Good organisational and communication skills. The
incumbent must have the ability to work under pressure, overtime and meet
deadlines, multi-task and manage priorities in a fast-paced environment.
Should be highly motivated with an eye for detail.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for collaborating with the design
manager on the overall look and feel for all design products and working as a
graphic designer on various products as per brief. Conceptualising and
handling visual execution of all design briefs. Handling creative jobs from
concept through to print. Providing comprehensive briefs to photographers.
Liaising with production houses, advertisers and printing companies on
34
production. Assisting with the management of the government corporate
identity. Assisting with the management and mentoring of junior personnel in
the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Rachel Sekhu Tel No: (012) 473 0254
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 Cnr
Francis Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to
recruitment@gcis.gov.za
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic
transcript. Shortlisted candidates will be expected to submit a portfolio of
evidence.
POST 21/53 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RECORDS MANAGEMENT REF NO: 3/1/5/1-25/24
Office of the Government Information Technology Officer
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate National Diploma (NQF
6) / Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 7) as recognised by SAQA in Records
Management / Information Science/ Archival Studies or equivalent qualification
majoring in Records Management / Information Science/ Archival Studies.
Three (3) years’ relevant experience of which one (1) year should be on salary
level seven (7) or eight (8). Knowledge of Public Service,
legislation/policies/prescripts and procedures, basic knowledge on financial
administration, Public Service Regulatory Framework, information
management, policies and procedures on Records Management, computer
literacy, electronic records management, sound organisational, negotiation /
communication, report writing, presentation, conflict resolution / problem
solving, strategic planning, basic financial management, people management,
project management. High Level of reliability, interpersonal relations, loyalty,
fairness and integrity. A valid driver’s licence. Candidate must be willing to
travel and be committed to meet deadlines within tight timeframes, and
demonstrable competency in acting Independently.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for implementing records
management strategies and policies. Provide inputs to the GCIS Strategic
Plan. File plan review and implementation. Develop and update filing systems
as per the file plan, conduct records management surveys. Digitise physical
records. Consult business areas with intension to look at correspondence
system utilised. Develop and update records management policies for the
GCIS in accordance with the National Archiving Act. Maintenance of filing
system. Advise on the management of electronic, audio-visual records and
paper-based information. Visit all GCIS records storages to conduct internal
inspections. Implement records disposal programmes. Evaluate the
importance and envisaged duration of life of all records per file plan. Apply for
disposal authority. Conduct training and awareness on the records
management. Apply general disposal authority for records common to all
district offices. Give input in the development of business, operational and
procurement plans. Compile and submit monthly and quarterly reports.
Manage financial and human resources/staff. Maintain staff discipline. Attend
and respond to audit queries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Selaelo Modiba Tel No: (012) 473 0129
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 Cnr
Francis Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to
recruitment@gcis.gov.za
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic
transcript.
35
POST 21/54 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
(RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION) REF NO: 3/1/5/1-25/25
Directorate: Human Resource Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate National Diploma (NQF
6) / Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 7) as recognised by SAQA in Human Resource
Management/ Public Management majoring in Human Resource Management/
Industrial Psychology majoring in Human Resource Management. Three (3)
years’ relevant experience of which one (1) year should be on salary level
seven (7) or eight (8). Essential knowledge, skills and competencies required:
Knowledge and application of the following legislative frameworks, Public
Service Regulations, Public Service Act, HR Prescripts, Labour Relations Act,
the Employment Equity Act and Operations Management Framework.
Understanding of efficiency promotion including the development of
organisational structure, Job profile design and Job Evaluation. A valid driver’s
licence. Understanding of HRM practices in the Public Service; Public Service
reporting procedures and work environment; Interpretation of legislation,
policies and statistics; Problem solving and analytical thinking skills; Strategic
planning and co-ordination; Computer skills. (MS Word, Ms Excel, Ms
PowerPoint, PERSAL); Communication (verbal, written and networking);
Willingness to travel and work extended hours.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be required to provide for the Recruitment and
Selection services of employees with the following responsibilities: Support the
formulation and implementation of the departmental recruitment plan; Manage
the advertising of positions in the Department; Support the provision of a
recruitment and selection service; Give guidance and necessary inputs to
selection committee members to ensure conformity to the Department’s
recruitment and selection policies. Support organizational design, job
evaluation, work study services and maintain post establishment. Coordinate,
facilitate and monitor the development of job profiles in the department.
Coordinate the development and implementation of the departmental HR Plan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Paul Kwerane Tel No: (012) 473 0407
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 cnr Francis
Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to
recruitment@gcis.gov.za
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic
transcript.
POST 21/55 : PRINCIPAL NETWORK CONTROLLER: IT SERVICE DESK REF NO:
3/1/5/1-25/26
Directorate: Information Technology
The purpose of the post is to facilitate the delivery of a single point of contact
for IT support and related services.
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate National Diploma (NQF
6) / Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 7) as recognised by SAQA in Information
Technology/Computer Science or equivalent related qualification majoring in
Information Technology, Computer Science. The candidate must have 2 years’
experience in the IT service desk environment. Excellent interpersonal skills.
Good communication skills (written and oral), and exceptional organizing and
planning skills. Ability to work independently, under pressure and in a team.
Ability to multi-task, Time management and pro-activeness. Problem solving
skills, innovation, results orientated and diligent individual.
DUTIES : First point of contact call resolution. Logging, Managing and resolving incidents
and requests, providing first-line support to users, and escalating complex
issues to higher-level support teams. User Account management (user
creation, deletion, and amendments) in line with the audit plus report ensuring
controls and compliance requirements are met. Prepare IT Helpdesk reports.
Log service requests with hardware service providers where necessary.
36
Troubleshooting and problem solving: physical and remote desktop support to
all GCIS offices. Deployment of Antivirus updates and Windows updates.
Audio/Visual support, including Media Briefings, meetings and events. Assist
in maintaining an accurate inventory of IT equipment, including computers,
peripherals. Update inventory records as needed. Participate in IT projects.
Provide inputs on ICT policies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Selaelo Modiba Tel No: (012) 473 0129
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 cnr Francis
Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to
recruitment@gcis.gov.za
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic
transcript.
POST 21/56 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PRODUCTS AND PLATFORMS REF NO:
3/1/5/1-25/27
Chief Directorate: Products and Platforms
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate National Diploma (NQF
6) / Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 7) as recognised by SAQA in Secretarial Studies/
Public or Business Administration/Public Management/ Administration, or an
equivalent related qualification in office administration /management. The
candidate must have at least two (2) year's relevant administrative experience.
Excellent interpersonal skills, good communication skills (written and oral), and
exceptional organising and planning skills are required. Ability to work
independently, under pressure, and in a team. He/she must have the ability to
multitask, manage events, and work with databases and presentations. Time
management and pro-activeness are essential. Fair understanding of project
management and financial management is required. Problem-solving skills,
innovation, and a results-oriented individual with attention to detail are
expected. Proficiency in at least two South African official languages is
required. Computer literacy (Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, and Excel) is
necessary. Knowledge of virtual meetings (organisation, hosting, recording,
and transcription) are a requirement. Protocol, etiquette, and diplomacy are
essential. Problem-solving and analysis skills are required. A high level of
reliability, a client-focused attitude, and keen attention to detail are expected. A
driver’s licence and knowledge of a communications or content management
environment would be an added advantage.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for the following: Provide secretarial and
administrative support to the Chief Director. Write routine notes, memos,
letters, and reports and collate inputs from the units and various stakeholders.
Manage files and records and implement a system of document management
in line with the GCIS file plan. Develop and implement new ideas to change
existing procedures to improve filing, tasking, and document tracking. This will
include creating a paperless and digital office that considers the environment.
Track actions and responses in relation to the programmes and projects of the
Chief Director. Create and maintain databases of internal and external
stakeholders for the Chief Director. Coordinate effective internal and external
meetings, appointments, and events. Compile agendas and take accurate
minutes and action matrices during meetings. Diary and calendar management
are required. Receive and attend to visitors and organise parking and
refreshments. Handle travel and accommodation arrangements, subsistence
& travel (S&T), and cell phone claims and budget cash flow information.
Manage the leave register. Maintain an asset register. Study relevant public
service and GCIS policies and procedures to ensure proper application.
Screen telephone calls and respond to enquiries efficiently. Identify venues,
invite role players, and organise refreshments. Compile attendance registers
and agendas for meetings. Compile packs for meetings and distribute to
relevant travel arrangements. Quality-check all documentation received before
submission to the Chief Director. Prepare documentation such as letters,
submissions, meeting briefing notes, presentations and reports as required by
the Chief Director. Management of the budget, assist the Chief Director in
37
determining funding requirements and procurement planning, maintain records
of expenditure commitments, track expenditure, and perform all related
financial management functions. The Administrative Secretary must be willing
to work extra hours and travel occasionally.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Zanele Mngadi Tel No: (012) 473 0141
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 cnr Francis
Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to
recruitment@gcis.gov.za
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic
transcript.
38
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
It is the Department’s intension to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filing of this
post with a candidate whose transfer /promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : The Director-General, National Department of Health, Private Bag X399,
Pretoria, 0001. Hand delivered application may be submitted at Reception
(Brown Application Box), Dr AB Xuma Building, 1112 Voortrekker Rd, Pretoria
Townlands 351-JR or should be forwarded to recruitment@health.gov.za
quoting the reference number on the subject e-mail.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms M Shitiba
NOTE : All short-listed candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise for SMS posts, the selection panel will recommend candidates to
attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the
DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments).
The competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment batteries.
Applications should be submitted on the new Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service department and should be accompanied by a CV only (previous
experience must be comprehensively detailed). The Z83 must be fully
completed (in line with DPSA Practice note), failure to comply will automatically
disqualify the applicant. Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualification and other relevant documents on application. Certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents will be requested prior to the final
selection phase. Applications should be on one PDF format (If emailed).
Applications received after the closing date and those that do not comply with
the requirements will not be considered. It is the applicant’s responsibility to
have foreign qualifications and national certificates (where applicable)
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Please note by
responding to the advertisement, you consent to the collection, processing, and
storing of your Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your information will be used solely for the
purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with third parties without prior
consent unless required by law. The Department reserves the right not to fill
the posts. The successful candidate will be subjected to personnel suitability
checks and other vetting procedures. Applicants are respectfully informed that
correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If notification of
an interview is not received within three (3) months after the closing date,
candidates may regard their application as unsuccessful. The Department will
not be liable where applicants use incorrect/no reference number(s) on their
applications.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 21/57 : CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER REF NO: NDOH 47/2025
SALARY : R1 741 770 per annum, an all-inclusive remuneration package, [basic salary
consists of 70% of total package]. The flexible portion of the package can be
structured according to Senior Management Service Guidelines.
CENTRE : National Department of Health. Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF 8 as recognised by SAQA in Financial Management. At
least 8 years’ experience at a Senior Management level in Finance. Experience
should comprise, Transactional and Developmental Finance, Asset and
Liability management as well as Audit, Risk and Governance Management. A
good track record of managing strategic programmes or projects. Application
experience or knowledge of government policies and legislation relevant to the
post i.e. Public Finance Management Act 1 of 1999, Division of Revenue Act,4
of 2020, Public Audit Act, 25 of 2004, Public Service Act, 103 of 1994 as
amended and related regulations etc. Excellent communication skills (written
and verbal) appropriate to operational and executive levels, Strategic
leadership, stakeholder engagement and coordination skills, change
39
management and analytical skills. Advanced computer office package skills.
Flexibility and ability to work under pressure. Valid driver’s licence. SMS pre-
entry Certificate will be required prior the appointment.
DUTIES : Strategic Manage of financial services in the Department i.e. Revenue,
Expenditure, Assets, Liability, Supply Chain and Internal Control. Oversee the
development of financial models that facilitate the selection of optimised
funding options and effective investment of funds for the Health Sector.
Manage and coordinate the budget planning processes and maintain
performance budge monitoring system. Facilitate the implementation of
national norms and standards where applicable. Advice on the strategic
financial planning of the Health Sector, through the analysis of the current
financial status, estimates of future revenues and expenditure. Advise on the
establishment and /or restructuring of the public entities by mergers,
acquisitions, or capital restructuring. Grant management. Monitoring and
coordination of Provincial Health Budgets. Assess spending by spheres of
government and health public entities and advice. Oversee the Supply Chain
Management System including assets and contract management,
maintenance of supplier database as well as procumbent delegations. Maintain
a system of internal control and ensure that policies and processes are
developed and managed. Facilitate risk management processes. Implement
fraud prevention system and maintain audit processes and systems.
Management of Human Resources. Ensure compliance with all relevant
legislation and good governance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Q Gambu on email: Qhakazile.Gambu@health.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 07 July 2025
POST 21/58 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: MATERNAL, CHILD AND WOMEN’S HEALTH REF NO:
NDOH 48/2025
Chief Directorate: Maternal, Child and Women’s Health
This is a re-advertisement. Applicants who have previously applied need to re-
apply
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum, an all-inclusive remuneration package, [basic salary
consists of 70% of the total package, the State’s contribution to the
Government Employee’s Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible
portion]. The flexible portion of the package can be structured according to
Senior Management Service Guidelines
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF 7 qualification in medical or nursing sciences as
recognized by SAQA. Registration with appropriate Professions Council. A
postgraduate qualification in a relevant field (including Obstetrics and
Gyneacology or Paediatrics) will be an added advantage. At least five (5) years’
experience at senior management level in a health associated environment,
with specific emphasis on child and/or women’s health programmes.
Experience in national and international liaison, policy development and
implementation, strategic and operational planning. Specialised knowledge
and experience in women’s maternal, newborn, child and adolescent health as
well as monitoring and evaluation, human resources and financial
management. Working knowledge of the health sector and government
strategies and processes, strategic management and project management.
Knowledge of other programmes that impact on family health particularly
HIV/AIDS, TB and nutrition. Good communication (verbal and written),
leadership, analytical, problem solving, research, facilitation, negotiation,
advocacy and computer skills (MS Office package). A valid driver’s license.
SMS pre-entry Certificate is required for appointment finalization.
DUTIES : Oversee the reduction of maternal, neonatal and child mortality rates. Develop
and support implementation of plans to reduce maternal, newborn and child
mortality rates based on the recommendations from the ministerially appointed
Mortality Committees. Provide strategic direction and oversee the development
of relevant policies and guidelines aimed at improving the health and well-being
of women, adolescents and children. Facilitate the promotion of healthy
behaviours and demand for health services in families, communities, especially
in the areas that affect the health and wellbeing of mothers, women and
children. Monitor and report on progress towards achievement of global and
national commitments such as Sustainable Development Goal and National
Development Plan targets. Effective governance, compliance and risk
40
management. Monitor quality, risk, standards and practices against prescribed
frameworks.
ENQUIRIES : Mr RW Morewane Tel No: (012) 395 8757/8
CLOSING DATE : 07 July 2025
POST 21/59 : DIRECTOR: CONDITIONAL GRANTS REF NO: NDOH 49/2025
Chief-Directorate: Provincial Support and Conditional Grants Management
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum, an all-inclusive remuneration package, [basic salary
consists of 70% or 75% of total package, salary package will be structured
according to Middle Management Service guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and NQF 7 qualification in Accounting/Financial
Management/Economics/ Public Finance / Public Administration as recognized
by SAQA. Post graduate qualification in the afore-mentioned specialization will
be an advantage. At least five (5) years’ experience at a middle/senior
management level in financial management environment. Knowledge and
experience in Public / Private Sector budgeting processes, forecasting,
reporting and auditing. Extensive project management understanding and
implementation, strategic ability to analyse information or data for public
finance policy advice, decision making and management. Knowledge of DoRA,
PFMA, Treasury Regulations, SCM policies and other Treasury prescripts.
Good communication (verbal and written), people management, budgeting
analytical and planning, interpersonal, project and research management, risk
and financial management, well as computer (MS Office package) skills. Ability
to work independently and as part of a team. A valid driver’s license. The SMS
pre-entry Certificate is required for appointment finalization.
DUTIES : Render strategic leadership on departmental conditional grants budgeting
processes in line with the MTEF. Provide strategic leadership in expenditure
monitoring and reporting processes in line with conditional grants business
plans. Coordinate the development of business plans and ensure alignment
with the departmental strategic and annual performance plans. Provide
strategic leadership to ensure compliance with DORA, PFMA, Financial
Management policies and other prescripts. Manage risk, audit queries and
resources within the area of work.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. H Nevhutalu Tel No: (012) 395 9682
CLOSING DATE : 07 July 2025
OTHER POSTS
POST 21/60 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CONDITIONAL GRANTS REF NO: NDOH 46/2025
Cluster: Provincial Support and Conditional Grants
This is a re-advertisement. Applicants who have previously applied need to re-
apply.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, an all-inclusive remuneration package, [basic salary
consists of 70% or 75% of total package, salary package will be structured
according to Middle Management Service guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and a Bachelor’s degree / equivalent (NQF 7)
qualification in Economics / Auditing / Statistics / Financial Management /
Public Finance / Public Administration as recognised by SAQA. NQF 8
qualification in the above mentioned fields as well as Public Health
Management will be an advantage. At least five (5) years’ experience at
Assistant Director or equivalent level in financial management environment.
Knowledge and experience in Public / Private Sector budgeting, planning,
forecasting, reporting and auditing. Ability to gather and analyse information or
data for public finance policy development and management. Understanding
of DoRA, PFMA, Treasury Regulation, SCM Policies and other Treasury
prescripts. Good report writing, project management, interpersonal, people
management, research and communication skills. Ability to work independently
and function as part of a broader team. A valid driver’s licence as well as
willingness to work irregular hours and travel frequently as required.
DUTIES : Manage expenditure monitoring and reporting processes in line with
conditional grants business plans. Analyse and advice on monthly, quarterly,
and annual expenditure trends. Identify measures to strengthen optimal grants
budgetary spending and efficiency gains. Ensure compliance with the DORA,
41
PFMA, Financial management policies and other prescripts. Coordinate and
support the budgeting processes in line with the Medium-Term Expenditure
(MTEF) and associated Frameworks to ensure credibility. Coordinate and
analyse the inputs for drafting of the Division of Revenue Bill in support of
health services delivery. Analysis of conditional grants reports and explore
potential budget challenges and remedial actions with the programme
managers. Conduct analysis on financial and non-financial Quarterly
Performance Reports (QPR) and provide advice to the Senior Management.
Analyse variances and explore potential budget challenges and remedial
actions and report to management. Provide technical support on grants budget
implementation and reforms to Provincial Department of Health. Coordinate
and report on site visits undertaken to inform provincial budget management
and other policy decisions. Provide technical support on the compilation and
finalization of the department’s quarterly and annual financial statements with
respect to conditional grants reporting. Consult internal and external
stakeholders in the enhancement of the grants audit outcomes. Coordinate the
compilation of the conditional grants MTEF estimates. Manage human
resource, risk and audit queries. Management of staff, respond to audit
queries, and develop and implement risk management plan and conduct risk
assessment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Hadley Nevhutalu Tel No: (012) 395-9682
CLOSING DATE : 07 July 2025
POST 21/61 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SECURITY SERVICES REF NO: NDOH 50/2025
Directorate: Security Services
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, an all-inclusive remuneration package, [basic salary
consists of 70% or 75% of total package, salary package will be structured
according to Middle Management Service guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and NQF 7 qualification in Security Management or
Policing qualification as recognized by SAQA. SSA Security Advisory or
Management and Forensic Investigation courses as well as PSIRA training
certificate grade A or B or equivalent will be an advantage. At least three (3)
years’ experience at Assistant Director level in security environment.
Knowledge of Minimum Physical Security Standards (MPSS), Minimum
Information Security Standards (MISS), Information Management, policy
formulation, investigation awareness programme, departmental policies and
procedures, Occupational Health and Safety Act and Fire Regulations, as well
as criminal investigation. Good communication (verbal and written), analytical,
budget and people management, interpersonal and diplomacy, conflict
resolution and negotiation, operating and auditing, planning and organization,
project and programme management, presentation, and computer skills. Ability
to work independently and as part of a team. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage physical security for the department, maintain integrated security
system, implement access and key control procedures. Manage and provide
support to major events. Develop and implement safety events management
plans, attend plenary meetings and apply event categorization events. Manage
investigations of security breaches. Conduct investigations on all reported
security breaches, prepare and reduce the impact of security risk and efficiently
manage consequences in the event of an incident. Management of resource,
risk and audit findings. Implement recommendations based on risk assessment
and audit findings, conduct Threat Risk Assessment (TRA) as well as
management of internal and external audit. Liaise with stakeholders. Manage
or monitor the performance of security services providers in terms of the
Service Level Agreement (SLA), liaise with SAPS on issues involving criminal
activities within the department. Create, develop, and maintain a security
training capacity and conduct security training sessions for staff.
ENQUIRIES : Dr T Nghonyama Tel No: (012) 395 8746
CLOSING DATE : 07 July 2025
POST 21/62 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATION REF NO: NDOH 51/2025
Branch: Primary Health Care
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, an all-inclusive remuneration package, [basic salary
consists of 70% or 75% of total package, salary package will be structured
according to Middle Management Service guidelines.
42
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and an NQF 7 qualification in Office Administration/Office
Management/ Public Administration/Public Management /Business
Administration/Business Management and/or related Administration
qualification. At least three (3) years’ experience at Assistant Director or
equivalent level in office administration and financial management
environment. Knowledge and understanding the application of government and
departmental policies, understanding of financial policies as guided by
Treasury Regulations. Good communication (verbal and written), project
management, administrative, interpersonal, planning and organization,
analytical and problem solving as well as computer skills (MS Office package).
Ability to work well under pressure and independently and in a team. A valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support. Plan, organize and control administrative
activities pertaining to the branch, consolidate quarterly reports for submission
to Strategic Planning Unit. Manage the flow of documents. Ensure efficient flow
of information between the branch and the entire department. Ensure all
documents are logged on according to Electronic Document Management
System. Administer the finances. Co-ordinate procurement activities, assist
with MTEF submissions, prepare and review on annual budget against the
operational plan and prepare and consolidate the budget. Provide secretariat
support. Ensure proper co-ordination of meetings and ensure timeous
submission of minutes and agenda. Management of human and physical
resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JR Hunter Tel No: (012) 395 8190
CLOSING DATE : 07 July 2025
POST 21/63 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CONDITIONAL GRANTS REF NO: NDOH 52/2025
Cluster: Provincial Support and Conditional Grants
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus competitive benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and NQF 6 qualification in Information Systems /
Financial Information Systems / Statistics / Econometrics / Accounting with
Information Systems as recognised by SAQA. An NQF 7 of the above-
mentioned qualifications will be an advantage. At least three (3) years’
experience in finance or budget data collation and analysis. Knowledge of
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), advanced Microsoft office,
understanding of government budgeting and planning processes. Good report
writing, analytical, interpersonal, data management, problem solving and
communication (written and verbal) skills. Ability to work independently and
function as part of a broader team. A valid driver’s licence as well as willingness
to work irregular hours and travel frequently as required.
DUTIES : Develop a database for financial, human resources and supply chain
management information. Development and maintenance of database for
conditional grants and equitable share budget and expenditure for the sector.
Improved data management, analysis and reporting to ensure quality decision
making. Analyse stakeholder information and alert management of potential
risks. Assist in compilation of In-Year Monitoring (IYM) reports and providing
quarterly financial statement inputs for conditional grants. Improve financial
planning and coordinate the compilation of the conditional grants’ MTEF
estimates. Research on costing and allocation models for various conditional
grants. Assist in coordination of inputs for Division of Revenue Bill. Strengthen
monitoring of financial performance in line with business planning. Manage
expenditure monitoring and reporting processes in line with conditional grants
business plans. Analyse variance and explore potential budget challenges and
remedial actions with programme managers. Manage risk and audit queries.
Contribute to the risk management in the cluster and assist in the management
of internal and external audit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Hadley Nevhutalo Tel No: (012) 395-9682
CLOSING DATE : 07 July 2025
POST 21/64 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: NATIONAL HEALTH INFORMATION SYSTEMS
REF NO: NDOH 53/2025
Directorate: National Health Information Systems
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus competitive benefits)
43
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and an undergraduate qualification (NQF 6) in
Information Management / Information Systems / Data Science and/or
Statistics as recognized by SAQA. Working experience with District Health
Information System (webDHIS/DHIS2) will be an advantage. At least three (3)
years’ experience in data management working with public health data within
the public sector or non-governmental sector. Knowledge of data compilation,
data management and data analysis. A good understanding of the public health
system and knowledge of South African Statistical Quality Assessment
Framework (SASQAF). Good communication (verbal and written),
interpersonal, management, problem solving, project management, planning
and organizing, and computer skills (MS Office package). Ability to work well
under pressure and independently and in a team. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage District Health Information System (DHIS). Ensure that the DHIS
(webDHIS/DHIS2) data generated is effectively managed and analysed.
Regularly analyse collected data and provide continuous feedback to National
Programmes and Provincial Departments of Health. Conduct targeted
assessment of hospitals and primary healthcare data tools using rapid internal
performance data audit (RIPDA). Provide support to provinces and districts in
the development of quality improvement plans and monitor implementation.
Manage data request from programme managers in the National Department
of Health and partners. Process data requests from both NdoH and external
stakeholder within departmental data sharing policies. Conduct monthly data
analysis, data quality checks and provide feedback and follow ups for hospital
and PHC. Provide feedback on data quality to the relevant programme
managers and provinces. Management of risk and audit queries. Manage the
audit of performance information by preparing data for the audit and provide
provincial support during the audit. Manage requests for information on the
audit of reported performance against pre-determined objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Cabuko Tel No: (012) 395 9663
CLOSING DATE : 07 July 2025
POST 21/65 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF NO: NDOH
54/2025
Directorate: Support Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus competitive benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and Bachelor’s degree (NQF 7) qualification in Health
Sciences as recognized by SAQA. A relevant postgraduate qualification in
Monitoring and Evaluation, Public Health, and/or Epidemiology will be an
advantage. Knowledge and understanding of PFMA, Treasury Regulations,
Labour Relations Act, Public Service Act and Public Service Regulations. At
least three (3) years’ experience in the health environment in at least one (1)
of the following domains: Monitoring and Evaluation, Health Management
Information Systems, Health Research, Epidemiology, and/or Health Policy.
Knowledge and experience of monitoring and evaluation of health
programmes, data management, analysis and interpretation as well as report
writing and oral presentation. Good communication (verbal and written),
interpersonal, project management, planning and organizing, and computer
skills (MS Office package). Ability to work well under pressure, independently
and in a team. A valid driver’s license and willingness to travel to various
provinces
DUTIES : Assist with implementation of the monitoring and evaluation strategy for the
health sector. Extract and analyse data from various systems including the
DHIS to monitor the performance of the department against its strategic
priorities. Support the compilation of various progress reports and provision of
data. Review and assess the quality of performance information against set
targets and the portfolio of evidence against the reported outputs. Support the
review and implementation of the National Indicator Data Set (NIDS). Provide
support and training to provinces with regard to implementation of the NIDS.
Attend meetings and workshops with other national departments and external
stakeholders to contribute on M&E related aspects. Provide guidance/technical
assistance to NdoH internal clusters and provinces with regard to M&E
systems, frameworks and plans. Support the Audit of Predetermined
Objectives by managing audit queries and responding to information requests.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs D Maine Tel No: (012) 395 8121
44
CLOSING DATE : 07 July 2025
POST 21/66 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO: NDOH 55/2025
Directorate: Support Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (plus competitive benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and NQF 6 qualification in Office Administration/Office
Management / Public Administration/Management and/or Business
Management /Administration. An NQF 7 in the above qualifications will be an
advantage. At least three (3) years’ experience as a supervisor in office
administration or support services. Knowledge of meeting procedures and
recording of minutes. Understanding the application of government and
departmental policies as well as financial polices guided by Treasury
Regulations. Good communication (verbal and written), interpersonal,
management, organizing, administrative and computer skills (MS Office
package). Ability to work well under pressure and independently and in a team.
A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support. Provide the oversight and direction of all
activities that support operational issues of the directorate. Manage the switch
board services (Telecommunication). Ensure that the telephone system and
Premi cell are fully functional and serviced. Manage human resources and risk.
Develop and implement risk management plan. Put systems in place to
minimize risk and respond to audit queries. Administer the finances of the
Directorate. Co-ordinate procurement activities, assist with MTEF
submissions. Establishing and maintain organizational relationships internally
and externally. Provide support and guidance to the external service provider
regarding building maintenance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Vilane Tel No: (012) 395 9374
CLOSING DATE : 07 July 2025
POST 21/67 : SENIOR VETTING OFFICER REF NO: NDOH 56/2025
Directorate: Security Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum, (plus competitive benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and NQF 6 qualification in Social Sciences, Security
Management or policing as recognized by SAQA. At least two (2) years’
experience in vetting field work investigation and learning facilitation.
Knowledge of Minimum Information Security Standard (MISS) and general
administrative function including vetting. Knowledge of Public Service Act and
Regulations, Security policies, National Strategic Intelligence Act, Protection
information Act, Criminal Procedure Act, Promotion of Information Act and
South African Constitution. Good communication (verbal and written), client
orientation, telephone etiquette, customer service, conflict management,
planning, organizing and computer skills (MS Office package). Ability to work
under pressure and in a team. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Conduct vetting fieldwork investigations. Conduct proper analysis and quality
checks on the information. Process personal suitability checks for shortlisted
candidate. Conduct vetting and security related research and development.
Capture finger prints on the finger print manager or take manual finger print
and submit to SAPS. Render administrative support services. Receive and
submit security clearance application. Provide effective communication
channels and systems between department and State Security Agency (SSA)
and other related agencies. Establish and promote relationships with external
stakeholders including credit information providers to access information.
Management of risk and audit queries.
ENQUIRIES : T Nghonyama Tel No: (012) 395 8746
CLOSING DATE : 07 July 2025
POST 21/68 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: NDOH 57/2025
Branch: Primary Health Care
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, (plus competitive benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and NQF 6 in Office Administration / Management /
Business Management / Administration / Management Assistant / Secretarial
45
Diploma as recognized by SAQA. NQF 7 in the above fields will be an
advantage. At least three (3) years’ experience in rendering a support service
to senior management. Knowledge of the relevant
legislation/policies/prescripts and procedures. Basic knowledge on financial
administration. Good communication (verbal and written), telephone etiquette,
planning, organizing and computer skills (MS Office package). Ability to act with
tact and discretion. Ability to research and analyze documents and situations.
DUTIES : Provides a secretarial/receptionist support service to the manager.
Coordinates with and sensitizes/advises the manager regarding engagements.
Rendering administrative support services. Ensures the effective flow of
information and documents to and from the office of the manager. Scrutinizes
routine submissions/ reports and make notes and/or recommendations for the
manager. Provides support to manager regarding meetings. Records
minutes/decisions and communicates to relevant role-players, follow-up on
progress made. Supports the manager with the administration of the
manager’s budget. Keeps record of expenditure commitments, monitors
expenditure and alerts manager of possible over- and under spending.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Hunter Tel No: (012) 395 8190
CLOSING DATE : 07 July 2025
POST 21/69 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK (PRODUCTION) REF NO: NDOH 58/2025 (X2
POSTS)
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R228 321 per annum, (plus competitive benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate (NQF 4). Basic knowledge of supply chain duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting
statistics. Basic knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Good communication (verbal and written),
teamwork, interpersonal relations, planning, organizing and computer skills
(MS Office package).
DUTIES : Render demand management clerical support. Prepare and compile
supporting documentation for quotation submissions and approvals. Render
acquisition management clerical support. Issue and receive bid/tender
documents from prospective suppliers, ensuring proper control and
registration. Render filing and record keeping services. File all quotation and
tender documents in accordance with National Archives regulations and
departmental file plans.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Ndwandwe Tel No: (012) 395 8090
CLOSING DATE : 07 July 2025
POST 21/70 : REGISTRY CLERK (PRODUCTION) REF NO: NDOH 59/2025 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Support Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum, (plus competitive benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate (NQF4). Knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as
the ability to capture data and operate computer. knowledge and understanding
of the legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of
storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working environment. Good
communication (verbal and written), interpersonal relations, planning,
organizing and computer skills (MS Office package).
DUTIES : Provide counter services. Receive and register hand delivered mail/files.
Handle incoming and outgoing correspondence. Receive, sort, register and
dispatch mails. Render an effective filing and record management service.
Opening and close files according to record classification system. Operate
office machines in relation to the registry function. pen and maintain franking
machine register. Process documents for archiving and/disposal. Electronic
scanning of files. Sort and package files for archives and distribution.
ENQUIRIES : Ms s Vilane Tel No: (012) 395 9374
NOTE : Please note that this post is advertised to create a database which will be
utilized for a period not exceeding three (3) months from the closing date.
CLOSING DATE : 07 July 2025
46
POST 21/71 : CLEANER REF NO: NDOH 60/2025 (X4 POSTS)
Directorate: Support Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum, (plus competitive benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 4. Knowledge of personal hygiene, cleaning and preparation of
tea/coffee. Basic English proficiency. Basic communication (verbal and written)
and interpersonal relationship skills.
DUTIES : Cleaning offices corridors, elevators and boardroom. Dusting and waxing office
furniture. Sweeping, scrubbing and waxing of floors. Clean general kitchen.
Cleaning of basins. Wash and keep stock of kitchen utensils. Cleaning the
restroom. Refilling hand wash liquid soap. Replace toilet papers, hand towels
and refreshners. Empty and wash waste bins. Keep and maintain cleaning
materials and equipment. Report broken cleaning machines and equipment.
Cleaning of machines (Microwares, Vacuum cleaners etc) and equipment after
use. Request cleaning materials.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Vilane Tel No: (012) 395 9374
CLOSING DATE : 07 July 2025
GRADUATE INTERSHIP PROGRAMME 2025-2027
(24 MONTHS)
The National Department of Health invites unemployed graduates who seek practical work experience
and who are interested in the Public Service career to apply for internship (an occupationally based work
experience opportunity) in the occupation mentioned below for a minimum of twenty-four (24) months.
The applicants must not have been exposed or have participated in an internship programme. The
Department aims to enhance the employability of unemployed graduate as potential employees through
this internship programme.
OTHER POSTS
POST 21/72 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMMES: ADMINISTRATION REF NO: NDOH 61/2025
(X7 POSTS)
STIPEND : R7 860, 39 per month
CENTRE : Office of the Minister, Pretoria (X3 Posts)
Branch: Primary Health Care, Pretoria (X2 Posts)
Chief Directorate: District Health Services, Pretoria (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and National Diploma (NQF 6) in Public
Management/Public Administration /Business Administration/Business
Management/Management Assistant and/or Office Management/Office
Administration. Good communication (written and verbal), planning,
organizational computer skills (MS Office package).
DUTIES : Assist in general support services. Assist supply chain support services within
the component. Assist in personnel administration support services as well as
with financial administration support services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Kekana/ Mr S Khoza Tel No: (012) 395 8154/8241
CLOSING DATE : 07 July 2025
POST 21/73 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMMES: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
NDOH 62/2025
Chief Directorate: Supply Chain and Assets Management
STIPEND : R7 860, 39 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 (NQF 4) certificate and National Diploma (NQF 6) in Supply Chain
Management/Logistics/Public Management/Purchasing/ Transport
Management. Good communication (written and verbal), planning,
organizational computer skills (MS Office package).
DUTIES : Assist in supply chain management services within the component. Assist with
asset management support. Assist with demand and acquisition support and
assist with logistical support services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Mahlangu Tel No: (012) 395 8942
CLOSING DATE : 07 July 2025
47
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(Tshwane North TVET College)
(Taletso TVET College)
OTHER POSTS
POST 21/74 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT (MINISTERIAL
PROGRAMMES) REF NO: CD/49/05/2025
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Academic Services
SALARY : R582 444 - R686 091 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric Certificate/Grade 12. A recognised tertiary qualification (REQV 13) in
the relevant field, including a professional teaching qualification. Five (5) years’
experience in the TVET teaching environment, of which three (3) years must
be at Campus Management level. A valid SACE certificate. A valid code B
driver’s licence. Knowledge: Knowledge of PSET and CET Act. Knowledge of
Teaching and Learning. Knowledge of Skills Development Act, Public Service
Regulations and Public Service Act, Labour Relations Act. Knowledge of the
Public TVET sector and its regulatory and legislative framework. Knowledge
and understanding of the Higher Education Sector. Skills: Administrative,
Planning and Organising, Financial Management, Report writing,
Communication, Problem Solving, Analytical, Client-oriented, Project
management. Team Leadership, People management. Values and attributes:
Client service focus, Integrity, Committed, Proactive, Loyal, Ethics.
DUTIES : Develop, implement, and monitor academic and curriculum policies. Develop,
implement, and monitor all QMS documents related to Ministerial Programmes.
Ensure that classroom management takes place. Support the implementation
of new programmes, qualifications, and revised NV(C) and R191 programmes
and qualifications, or any other Ministerial programmes. Coordinate review and
implementation of the ICASS instructions for NC(V) and R191. Ensure the
conduct of assessment on all ministerial programmes takes place. Provide
required reports to the college executive and oversight bodies. Oversee
coordinated curriculum delivery at all campuses. Ensure the implementation of
best practice teaching in collaboration with the campus manager. Monitor the
recording and implementation of memos and directives received from DHET.
Provide academic support to lecturing staff. Design and provide the college
Academic Year Planner to guide staff with the campus manager. Monitor
compliance with the College Academic Year Planner. Plan for delivery of quality
teaching and learning. Monitor the Teaching and Learning Plan. Ensure that
enrolment targets are set in line with campus facilities. Assist with admission
processes. Ensure that the Admission Policy and Programme Policy are kept
updated. Report on results and any other relevant indicators. Manage and
oversee other modes of delivery, e.g. part-time classes. Analyse results and
plan for intervention of critical subjects (Intervention Plan). Monitor class visit
for support of ICASS and ISAT. Plan for delivery quality teaching and learning.
Oversee SBA processes. Oversee staff development where applicable.
Coordinate activities for the acquiring of learning materials. Identify learner
materials, equipment and other resource requirements. Assist and authorise
requests for PPE. Disseminate overall learning materials. Support and assist
with blended learning. Support and assist with a learning management system
(LMS). Manage and oversee COLTECH or other relevant programmes at
campuses. Render management services to the staff. Convene HODs
meetings. Monitor the allocation of staff and resources on the timetable and
planning documents. Provide and present Academic Board reports. Submit
documentation to DHET for approval of new programmes/subjects. Manage
and oversee the Pre-Vocational Learning Programme (PLP). Any other duties
related to the post as requested by the DPA.
ENQUIRIES : Mr NW Mailula Tel No: (018) 384 2346/50
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
48
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/75 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STUDENT SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO:
SSS/48/05/2025
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Academic Services
SALARY : R582 444 - R686 091 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Central office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent. An appropriate Diploma/ Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 7)
in Psychology or BA. Social Work (Major in Psychology) or equivalent
qualification. 3-5 years’ supervisory experience at a salary level of 7 or 8 in an
education/teaching and learning environment or a related field. Sound
knowledge of career guidance, including the disability of students. Computer
literate and competent in Word/Excel/PowerPoint/Outlook/Teams. Good verbal
and written communication skills, presentation and report writing skills. A valid
driver’s licence. Strong interpersonal, communication, analytical, client-
oriented, motivational, negotiation and problem-solving skills. Good
administrative, planning and organising, financial management; report writing,
project management, team leadership and people management skills. Ability
to work under pressure and willingness to work extended hours when required.
A proven record in working successfully with diverse populations. A positive
attitude and ability to plan and adapt to change. Ability to collaborate effectively
with college departments and cross-functional teams. An expert understanding
of student academic support services. Ability to design and implement internal
administration systems and controls to ensure sound student support. Tactical
decision-making skills. Ability to manage sports, art and culture activities.
Knowledge of PSET and CET Act. Knowledge of Teaching and Learning.
Knowledge of Skills Development Act, Public Service Regulations, Public
Service Act and Labour Relations Act. Knowledge of the National Student
Financial Aid Scheme and related legislation. Knowledge of the Public TVET
sector and its regulatory and legislative framework. Knowledge of the Ethical
regulatory and legislative framework. Knowledge and understanding of the
Higher Education sector. Knowledge of Education Act.
DUTIES : Oversee administration of the student support services unit. Overall
management and coordination of the Student Support Services unit within the
College. Management and provision of student counselling services.
Management and provisioning of career guidance, counselling, and academic
support for students. Management and facilitation of student governance and
student leadership development. Manage mainstreaming of gender and
49
disability within students. Management and implementation of sport,
recreation, arts, and culture programs in the college. Management of all
human, financial, and other resources of the unit. Regular reporting to Senior
Management. Provide relevant and timely management information.
ENQUIRIES : Mr NW Mailula Tel No: (018) 384 2346/50
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint. General Instructions to Applicants: Interviewed
candidates may be subjected to competency assessment. Successful
candidates will be required to sign an annual performance agreement and
employment contracts on appointment. Successful candidates will be vetted,
expected to disclose their financial interests, and may be subjected to security
clearance.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/76 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HEAD OF ADMINISTRATION (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Academic Services
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mafikeng Campus Ref No: MAF/HOA/45/05/2025
Lehurutshe Campus Ref No: LE/HOA/46/05/2025
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent plus a recognised Degree/National Diploma(NQF Level
6 in Public Management/Public Administration/Office Management or
equivalent qualification, 3-5 years relevant supervisory experience in
Administration related to education/ HRM/Finance and SCM or relevant
environment, knowledge of office administration, knowledge of HRM,
Knowledge of Public Service legislation and policies, Knowledge of PSETA,
Knowledge and understanding of the TVET/CET Administration, understanding
of the Higher Education sector, understanding of corporate governance,
understanding Cost centre budgetary, expenditure and cash flow management,
Employment Equity Act, Public Service Regulations and Public Service Act,
Labour Relation Act and any other related legislation, Planning and organising,
Financial Management, Report writing Communication and interpersonal
relations, Problem solving, Computer literacy, team leadership and must have
a valid drivers ’licence.
DUTIES : Oversee the academic and student administration support service, Oversee
student registration and examination administration process, Oversee and
50
coordinate human resource administration services, Coordinate and gather
Campus information as when requested by central office and Department,
Oversee and Coordinate financial, asset and supply chain management
services, Oversee Campus infrastructure, Maintenance and fleet management
service, provide general administration support services and maintain a proper
filling system, Management of human, physical and Financial resources,
Ensure completion of performance agreements by all employees in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr NW Mailula Tel No: (018) 384 2346/50
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/77 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
SCM/44/05/2025
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Academic Services
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Central office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric or NCV Level 4 with a recognised 3 year degree/diploma in Supply
Chain/Logistics/Finance equivalent qualification any other relevant equivalent
qualification; 5 years’ experience in the Supply Chain environment or any
relevant field, in which 3 years must be supervisory experience in Supply Chain
environment or relevant field; Knowledge of the PFMA, PPPFA, Treasury
Regulations, Supply Chain Framework Act and BBEE Act; Understanding of
the Supply Chain Management cycle which includes demand, acquisition,
logistics, and disposal and supplier relationship management; Understanding
of Asset Management.
DUTIES : Develop, review, implement and monitor SCM policies in line with relevant
legislation; Oversee the procurement of goods and services for the College;
Oversee the administration of demand and acquisition; Ensure an up to date
database of service providers; Analysis and planning of procurement
requirements, the collating of information for the annual procurement plan;
SCM record keeping and reporting; Oversee the management of assets of the
College; Management of all Human, Financial and other resources of the unit.
Skills and Competencies: Administrative; Planning and organizing; Financial
management; Report writing; Communication and interpersonal; Problem
51
solving; Computer literacy; Analytical; Client oriented; Project management;
Team leadership; People management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr NW Mailula, Tel No: (018) 384 2346/50
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/78 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT
REF NO: IT/43/05/2025
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Academic Services
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Central office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent plus a 3 Year tertiary qualifications in relevant areas
and/or extensive administrative experience in the IT related field. Driver’s
license. 5 years applicable experience. Knowledge of Broad ICT procedures
and practices. ICT Security practices. Information Management practices.
Budgeting procedures and practices. Broad administrative knowledge.
Personnel Evaluation procedures. Human resource management practices.
Analytical Skills; Writing Skills and Computer literacy.
DUTIES : To manage both first- and second-line support to all users within the
department. To support the development, management and control of ICT
Systems including the departmental website. To manage the planning,
implementation and maintenance of both external and internal information
technology projects e.g. the roll-out of IT within the respective district offices.
To plan, coordinate and manage ICT training for the component and the
department at large. procedures. Sage ICT training for the component and the
department at large. To develop and ensure the successful implementation of
ICT procurement policies and strategies. To ensure the rendering of an
effective and efficient secretariat and advisory service to the Departmental IT
Committee in line with procurement and asset management procedures. SITA
liaison and service level management (agreements). Keep and maintain a
register of all IT equipment’s in the Department, including the disposal thereof
in terms of Treasury regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr NW Mailula Tel No: (018) 384 2346/50
52
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/79 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
ADH/42/05/2025
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Corporate Services
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Central office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate and a three-year National Diploma/ in Human Resource
Management/ Public Administration/Public Management, Personnel
Management or equivalent relevant qualifications at NQF level 6 with 360
credits as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in
Human Resource Management environment of which 1 year should be on
supervisory level, Knowledge of PERSAL. Shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit PERSAL certificates/results. Extensive experience in Leave
& Personnel Administration will be an added advantage. A driver’s license.
Skills and Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of Public Service Act.
1994, Knowledge of Public Service Regulation 2016, Labour Relations Act,
Employment Equity Act. Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Knowledge of
HRM policies, Knowledge of HR related standards, practices, processes and
procedure, Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles, Knowledge of PERSAL
system. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise
as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability
based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Implement efficient and effective recruitment and selection processes Ensure
the administration of condition of service and benefit, Implement Performance
Management and Development System and training initiatives, Ensure and
implement labour relations matters and EHW programmes, Ensure the
provision of efficient and effective provision of HR records management
services. Supervise and develop staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tlhako E Tel No: (018) 384 2346/50
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
53
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/80 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
FM/41/05/2025
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Finance and Administration
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Central office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent plus an appropriate recognized three-year National
Diploma/Degree (NQF Level6/7) in Financial Management/ Accounting/Public
Finance/ Cost and Management plus a minimum of 3 years relevant working
experience in the financial management environment at a supervisory level and
or at a post equivalent to salary level 8/7. Knowledge of PFMA, preferential
procurement policy framework, Treasury Regulations, public sector
procurement and Supply Chain Management. Knowledge of BAS (Basic
Accounting System) & PERSAL. Excellent communication skills. Computer
literacy in Excel, Access, Word and PowerPoint. Valid Driver’s License.
DUTIES : Provide financial administration and procurement administration to the district
office and schools. Maintain all the accounting records of the district. Assist
with clearing of accounts. Assist in the preparation and administration of district
budget allocation process. Budget forecasting and reporting. Prepare weekly
Cash flow inputs (funds requisitioning). Prepare monthly and quarterly reports
for the district. Assist in with the audit process and clearing of all audit queries.
Report in writing any unauthorized, irregular or fruitless and wasteful
expenditure. Implement and maintain asset management policies of the
department. Co-ordination of Risk management processes. Ensure
compliance with PFMA and Treasury Regulations and Accounting principles
and Departmental policies, Financial Delegations and also through applicable
compliance certificates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr NW Mailula Tel No: (018) 384 2346/50
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
54
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/81 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT REF NO: SSA/39/05/2025 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Financial Accounting Financial Management Services
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Central office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent plus Three (3) years Tertiary qualification in Accounting
or Equivalent qualification. Two (2) years functional experience. Knowledge:
Departmental Policies and Procedures, Public Financial Management Act,
Batho Pele principles, Transport Policy, Supply Chain Procedures, Basic
Knowledge of all legislations, Budgeting in Government and Basic Accounting
system. Skills Computer literacy, Planning and organising, Communication,
Interpersonal relations and Conflict Management.
DUTIES : Supervise the activities of the State Accounting Clerks / Snr AND State
Accountants to contribute to the rendering of a professional financial
management service for example: Personnel development. Performance and
discipline. Ensure quality of work. Supervise the implementation and
maintenance of Financial Management practices (LOGIS/ BAS/ PERSAL
Transactions) concerning financial management processes in the department
to contribute to the rendering of a professional Financial Management Service.
Salaries (Payments, Deductions etc.) Tax (payment to SARS, calculation of Tax
payable etc.). Debt. Bookkeeping (Clear Ledger accounts, Capture BAS
Payments, Journals and Reports). Banking. Revenue (Cashier). Budget
(Capture Budget, Virement, Adjustment Budget on BAS etc.) Render a
Financial Management advisory service to the Department by investigating,
analysing, benchmarking, and interpreting legislation and prescripts and other
Financial. Administration related issues to promote an effective Financial
Management environment. Promote effective financial management by
researching, analysing, developing, monitoring, and reviewing Departmental
policies, strategies, guidelines, procedures, and circulars to contribute to the
consistent and effective application of Financial Management practices.
Monitor and evaluate Financial Management Policies, procedures, and
practises. Provide Financial Information and Knowledge Management
Services to the Department, for example: Maintain databases and draw
relevant reports in relation to the implementation of Financial Management
Policies, procedures, and practises. Manage the selection, generation and
presentation of financial management information considering the strategic
and operational management information requirements. Authorise and verify
all documents and transactions on LOGIS / BAS/ PERSAL according to
55
delegations. (Authorisation should happen on a higher level preferable at level
9). Prepare reports on financial management issues and statistics. Compile
monthly reconciliation’s i.r.o. PERSAL/ BAS/ PMG – accounts and finalization
of outstanding payments / submissions / recommendations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MA Matokong Tel No: (018) 384 2346/50
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/82 : SENIOR IT TECHNICIAN REF NO: IT/37/05/2025
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Information Technology Corporate Services
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Central office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/NQF Level 4 Certificate plus a recognised National Diploma/Degree in
IT / Computer Science (NQF Level 6) or equivalent. At least 2 - 3 years working
experience within the IT environment. Software and hardware experience. IT
Hardware and Software. Server administration. Understanding of Desktop,
Networking and Voice communication infrastructure. Program Installations.
Understanding of Help Desk operation. Full comprehension of IT second and
third line of IT 51 support. Recognised industries certification such as MCSE /
MCITP, A+, N+ security + and ITLv3 Foundation will be an added advantage.
A valid driver’s license. Willingness to travel and work extra hours.
DUTIES : Oversee the provision of technical support of the configuration, installation,
repair and replacement of computers, printers, and telephones. Ensure the
rendering of IT information management services: Plan, develop and improve
computer-based information systems. Server Administration, security of all
Technology and Network Configuration. Support, Maintain and Repair ICT
Assets (Hardware and Software) and advice ICT Manager. Ensure Liaison with
Service Providers in terms of software licensing upgrading and related
procurement. Facilitate ICT Training, support IT-related projects and any
related task as maybe required. Management of Human, financial and other
resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms KL Mooka Tel No: (018) 384 2346/50
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
56
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/83 : SENIOR REGISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: SRO/36/05/2025
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Office Of Deputy Principal Registration Services
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Central office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/NQF Level 4 Certificate plus a recognised National Diploma/Degree in
Information Technology/Information Systems/ Data Management (NQF Level
6) or equivalent qualification. At least 2 - 3 years working experience in Student
Administration / Data Management / TVET MIS environment. within the
Administration / MIS environment. Knowledge and understanding of
Information Management, Knowledge Management application and
interpretation of office management, Business Management System (BMS),
data warehouse and IT prescripts. Examination administration and
submissions of examination data. Knowledge of the enrolment Standard
Operating Processes (SOP), enrolment verification, completeness testing,
monitoring, screening, and selection of applicants. Thorough knowledge of the
application process of ITS, CAS and CACH systems. Good communication,
planning, organizing and Interpersonal skills. Ability to function without
supervision. Work under pressure. Computer Literacy (knowledge of MS
packages). A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Develop and implement management plans for student enrolment and
registration. Management of student enrolment in line with targets.
Responsible to develop and implement plans to ensure compliance to the
enrolment standardization processes of admission, enrolment, and registration
across delivery sites. Provide support to campuses on administration matters
and record management. Manage and verify preliminary entry files of all
student data prior to submissions to DHET. Lead screening and selection
processes in preparation for the Selection Committee. Engage and execute
resolutions taken by the Selection Committee. Provide support with the validity,
completeness testing, survey hub process and audits. Implement the Central
Application System from DHET. Accomplishes staff results by communicating
job expectations; planning, monitoring, and appraising job results,
coordinating, and implementation systems, policies, and procedures. Ensure
the overall supervision and administration of all academic and student related
57
system programmes, course, and qualification. Ensure the overall supervision
and maintenance of MIS licenses are renewed before expiry dates. Supervise
human, physical, and financial resources. Conduct systems monitoring and
provide support to campuses and all college systems end users. Ensure
optimal utilization of the College IT systems and provide reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms ME Tlhako Tel No: (018) 384 2346/50
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/84 : SENIOR FINANCIAL AID OFFICER (BURSARIES) REF NO:
SFO/32/05/2025
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Academic Services
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Central office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent and recognised three (3) year National Diploma/Degree
in Financial Management/Accounting, 2-3-years’ experience in
bursary/financial aid services. Sound knowledge and understanding of the
National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) requirements and
regulations. Sound knowledge of the CET Sector and understanding of other
financial aid or loan options (such as from financial institution, employers, etc).
effectively meeting customer needs; building productive customer relationship;
taking responsibility for customer satisfaction. Effectively managing one’s time
and resources to ensure work is completed efficiently. Providing timely
guidance and feedback to help others strengthen specific knowledge/skills
areas needed to accomplish a task or solve a problem, basic knowledge of the
public service financial legislations, procedures and Treasury regulations
(PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial Manual). Knowledge of basic
financial operating system (eg ITS). Skills: Computer, planning and organizing,
good verbal and written communication, basic numeracy skills ability to perform
routine tasks, flexibility and interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Review College bursary policies and procedures and make improvement
recommendations, produce reports on the status of the student (College)
bursaries in terms of the number of participating student, the nature of the aid
or loan schemes, its duration, and the value of aid or loan College, establish a
58
schedule and timeframe for submitting College bursary applications, maintain
records of all College bursary applications and related documentation,
maintain a database of all student bursary application in terms of the
Department of High Education and Training and NSFAS requirements. Receive
and log all bursary application and process to ensure all required information
has been submitted, notify campus student support officers of application gaps
and non-compliance, notify student support officers of any changes in
requirements, monitor bursary and other awards in conjunction with financial
Management services, ensuring College policy and procedural compliance.
Ensure overall supervision and coordination of student bursary scheme and
financial aid schemes application processes for the entire college in line with
NSFAS guideline, funder MOU/SLA, and policies, ensure overall supervision,
monitoring evaluation and maintenance of database of all student applications
in terms of the Department of Higher Education and Training and NSFAS
requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MA Matokong Tel No: (018) 384 2346/50
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/85 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER(OHS) REF NO: SAO/31/05/2025
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Facilities Management Corporates Services
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Central office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent plus Three (3) year tertiary qualification at NQF6/7
SAQA recognized in Public Management / Public Administration / Social
Science / OHS/ Finance / HRM. Two (2) years functional experience in a
Pension administration / claims processing. Knowledge: Compensation Fund
objectives and business functions, Compensation Fund Value Chain and
business processes, Relevant Fund policies, procedures and processed,
Customer Service (Batho Pele Principles), Risk awareness, COID Tariffs.
Skills: Required Technical Proficiency, Communication (verbal, written,
listening, and questioning skills), Fund Operating Systems, Data capturing,
Data and records management, Telephone skills and etiquette, Planning and
organizing, Analytical thinking, Problem solving, Decision making.
59
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. To confirm registration of with the
Unemployment Insurance Act and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act. Plan, investigate and finalise independently incidents and
complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and the relevant regulations and
enforce as and when necessary, appear in Court as a State witness. Plan and
conduct allocated proactive inspections as per schedule to monitor compliance
with the relevant labour legislation including compiling and consolidating
reports emanating from such inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy
campaigns on all labour legislation independently, analyse impact thereof,
consolidate and compile report. Contribute at a higher level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including,
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms KL Mooka Tel No: (018) 384 2346/50
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/86 : CHIEF PERSONNEL OFFICER REF NO: CPO/21/05/2025
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Corporate Services
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Central office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric Certificate/Grade 12 plus Three (3) years relevant tertiary qualification
in Human Resources Management. One to two years supervisory experience
doing Human Resources Management Services. PERSAL Certificate / results,
Valid driver’s license (except for persons with disabilities), Core and Process
Competencies: Interpersonal skills, Time management, Good Communication
skills, Professionalism, Accuracy, Independence, Team player and patience.
Knowledge of AJEL/NGN system. Knowledge and Skills: Computer literacy,
Interpersonal relations, Planning and Organizational Skills, Report Writing,
conflict resolution and problem-solving skills. Knowledge: All labour legislation,
Departmental policies and procedures related systems, Public Service Act,
Batho Pele principles, Public Service Regulations. Skills: Communication,
60
Presentation, Conflict management, Analytical, Report writing, Computer
literacy, Planning and organising, Supervisory, Time Management.
DUTIES : Monitor the recruitment and selection process. Facilitate the processing and
approval of service benefits e.g. leave, housing allowances, acting allowances,
overtime etc. Provide and monitor termination of service at the province.
Monitor establishment and the implementation of HR policies. Monitor the
payment of salaries. Manage all the resources within the section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Mailula N.W Tel No: (018) 384 2346/50
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/87 : SENIOR LABOUR RELATIONS OFFICER REF NO: TNC/CO/25-06/3
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), plus benefits
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/NQF Level 4 Certificate plus a recognised National Diploma/Degree in
Labour Relations/Labour Law or equivalent qualification. At least 2 - 3 years’
experience in labour relations. Computer literacy (Microsoft Office Suite, Ms
Word, Ms Excel, Ms PowerPoint). A valid driver’s licence. Must have excellent
presentation skills, ability to communicate well with people at different levels
and from diversified backgrounds. The prospective appointee should have
sound verbal and written communication skills, sound organizational and
planning skills. High level of reliability and ability to handle confidentiality. Must
have sound analytical thinking and research skills. High level of conflict
management skills and ability to be part of negotiations. Ability to act with tact
and discretion and handle conflict. Good telephone etiquette and interpersonal
skills. Excellent report writing skills. Ability to work under pressure and to take
initiative. Ability to work independently and in a team. Sound knowledge and
understanding of the Continuing Education and Training (CET) Act, Public
Service Regulations, Public Service Act and a myriad of other relevant human
resource legislative imperatives. Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Administer and investigate grievances. Investigate, initiate and/or preside over
misconduct cases. represent the College at conciliation and arbitrations and
facilitate the implementation of settlement agreements and arbitration awards.
ensure compliance with legislative framework relating to grievances and
61
disputes. keep or maintain statistical records in respect of all grievances,
disciplinary and disputes handled within the College. compile
reports/submissions in respect of grievances, disputes, advice on industrial
action matters. promote sound labour peace within the College. produce
monthly reports and analyse the reports to establish trends and develop
interventions where required. contribute to the College’s planning and
monitoring and evaluation processes. manage the implementation of policies,
resolutions, plans and strategies relating to labour relations. ensure
compliance with legislative framework and monitor and evaluate
implementation thereof, as well as suggest improvements where necessary.
develop internal control measures, guidelines and standard operating
procedures on labour relations in line with National and Departmental human
resource practices, guidelines and policies. conduct in-service training and
induction of staff on labour related matters. attend to audit queries including
the implementation of recommendations thereof. advice management,
employees on labour relations practices, procedures, guidelines and policies,
etc. support the Human Resource Manager in achieving the strategic
objectives of the College on labour relations management. be willing to
undergo continuous training and development. Attend and run meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Should you have enquiries or experience any problem submitting your
application contact Mr TH Ngubane Tel No: (012) 401 1989 / Ms JM Nyalunga
Tel No: (012) 401 1940
APPLICATIONS : Email to seniorlro@tnc.edu.za
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the New Z83 which must be fully completed,
obtainable from any Public Service Department and must be accompanied by
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications including academic records, driver’s
license, and identity document. Please take note that communication in relation
to the process will be limited to the short-listed candidates. If you have not
received any correspondence within three (3) months after the closing date,
please consider your application unsuccessful. Please quote the relevant
reference number of the post you are applying for. Candidates who apply for
more than one post should complete a separate application form for each post.
Applications received after the closing date will NOT be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a vetting process: criminal record, citizenship,
credit record checks, and qualifications. Shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to a skills/knowledge/competence test. The College/DHET reserves
the right not to make appointments. Preference will be given to persons from
designated groups, especially with regards to race, gender, and disability.
People with disability are encouraged to apply. All costs incurred due to your
application and interviews will be at your own expense. Tshwane North TVET
College would like to invite suitably qualified, innovative, result-orientated and
self–driven candidates to apply for their vacant positions.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/88 : SENIOR REGISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: TNC/CO/25 – 06/4
Nature of Appointment: Permanent Appointment
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), plus benefits
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/NQF Level 4 Certificate plus a recognised Degree/ National Diploma in
in Business Administration, Public Management/ administration or any relevant
qualification. An Honours degree or NQF Level 8 qualification will be an added
advantage. Must have a minimum of at least 2-3 years working experience on
student admission, enrolment, registration, examination processes, office
management & record management in college / university / school
administration environment. Experience in the post schooling education and
training (PSET) sector will be an added advantage. Knowledge of ADAPTIT
registration modules. Proven knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in
terms of the working environment. Proven report writing and presentation skills
in the public sector and its legislation framework. Sound knowledge and
understanding of the ITS student data system. In depth knowledge of retrieval
of reports, student data, validation, verification. Examination administration and
submissions of examination data. Knowledge of the enrolment Standard
Operating Processes (SOP), enrolment verification, completeness testing,
monitoring, screening and selection of applicants. Thorough knowledge of the
application process of ITS, CAS and CACH systems. Understanding of all
62
relevant Human Resources legislative framework and regulations. Problem
solving and analysis. Planning, organizing and time management. Computer
literacy, Service delivery innovation. Client orientation and customer focus.
Communication and information management in Data Management/ TVET MIS
environment. Application of the MS Office Package (Word, Power Point and
Excel). A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Develop and implement management plans for student enrolment, registration
and monitoring thereof. Management student enrolment in line with targets.
Responsible to establish training plans to ensure compliance to the enrolment
standardization processes of admission, enrolment and registration SOP and
Oversee and manage student registration activities at all campuses. Provide
support to campuses on administration matters and Supervise record
management and preliminary student data validation processes. Oversee
training and compliance with standardized enrolment processes. Manage and
verify preliminary entry files of all student data prior to submissions to DHET.
Lead screening and selection processes in preparation for the Selection
Committee. Engage and execute resolutions taken by the Selection
Committee. Provide support with the validity, completeness testing, survey hub
process and audits. Implement the Central Application System from DHET.
Accomplishes staff results by communicating job expectations; planning,
monitoring, and appraising job results, coordinating, and implementation
systems, policies, and procedures. Use various tools, extract data to facilitate
statistical reporting. Interact with service provider regarding upgrades and
request for assistance. Maintain data on student registration and submit
monthly reports: compile, monitor academic examination and staff, statistics of
the college and submit reports on quarterly basis to management and DHET.
Compile monthly, quarterly and annual reports as requested. Ensure the
overall supervision and coordination of student registration at all campuses.
Ensure the overall supervision and coordination of career counselling and
career exhibition services. Ensure that learner profiler is linked with the
application platform. Ensure the overall supervision and coordination of
guidance and testing of students, regarding choice of and placement within
programmes at all campuses. Ensure the overall supervision and maintenance
of database of students enrolled within programmes at all campuses. Ensure
the overall supervision and administration of the registration. Implement and
support the DHET Central Application System (CAS) and related survey/audit
processes.
ENQUIRIES : Should you have enquiries or experience any problem submitting your
application contact Mr TH Ngubane Tel No: (012) 401 1989 / Ms JM Nyalunga
Tel No: (012) 401 1940
APPLICATIONS : Email to seniorregistration@tnc.edu.za
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the New Z83 which must be fully completed,
obtainable from any Public Service Department and must be accompanied by
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications including academic records, driver’s
license, and identity document. Please take note that communication in relation
to the process will be limited to the short-listed candidates. If you have not
received any correspondence within three (3) months after the closing date,
please consider your application unsuccessful. Please quote the relevant
reference number of the post you are applying for. Candidates who apply for
more than one post should complete a separate application form for each post.
Applications received after the closing date will NOT be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a vetting process: criminal record, citizenship,
credit record checks, and qualifications. Shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to a skills/knowledge/competence test. The College/DHET reserves
the right not to make appointments. Preference will be given to persons from
designated groups, especially with regards to race, gender, and disability.
People with disability are encouraged to apply. All costs incurred due to your
application and interviews will be at your own expense. Tshwane North TVET
College would like to invite suitably qualified, innovative, result-orientated and
self–driven candidates to apply for their vacant positions.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/89 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: GOVERNANCE REF NO: TNC/CO/25– 06/5
Nature of Appointment: Permanent Appointment
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), plus benefits
63
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : B.Com. Law/LLB Degree/BA Degree (Administration/English/Communication);
At least 2 - 3 years’ experience in administrative and secretarial duties;
Knowledge of Microsoft Windows and Microsoft Office. Competencies: Well-
developed verbal and written communication skills; Ability to develop
comprehensive yet succinct written and presentation documents that
communicate Council Resolutions; Document Management and Record
Keeping Skills; High level of diplomacy and tact, ensuring confidentiality of
information at all times; Well-groomed and self-motivated with learning agility;
Good organisational and time management skills; Ability to work under
pressure and within tight deadlines; Ability to work flexi hours as and when
required.
DUTIES : Arranging logistics for the Council and EXCO for meetings; Providing
secretarial functions for the Council and EXCO meetings; Ensuring regulatory
compliance with relevant related legislation, Policies, guidelines, protocols and
systems; Providing advice and guidance on relevant policy gaps; Advising
Council on best practices of Corporate Governance; Maintain accurate records
of official documents and safeguard sensitive or confidential information from
disclosure; Manage correspondence and serves as a point of contact between
the Council and other parties; Compile and monitor the Council budget and
expenditure; Process claims of Council members; Execute duties as and when
delegated by the Principal.
ENQUIRIES : Should you have enquiries or experience any problem submitting your
application contact Mr TH Ngubane Tel No: (012) 401 1989 / Ms JM Nyalunga
Tel No: (012) 401 1940
APPLICATIONS : Email to saogovernance@tnc.edu.za
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the New Z83 which must be fully completed,
obtainable from any Public Service Department and must be accompanied by
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications including academic records, driver’s
license, and identity document. Please take note that communication in relation
to the process will be limited to the short-listed candidates. If you have not
received any correspondence within three (3) months after the closing date,
please consider your application unsuccessful. Please quote the relevant
reference number of the post you are applying for. Candidates who apply for
more than one post should complete a separate application form for each post.
Applications received after the closing date will NOT be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a vetting process: criminal record, citizenship,
credit record checks, and qualifications. Shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to a skills/knowledge/competence test. The College/DHET reserves
the right not to make appointments. Preference will be given to persons from
designated groups, especially with regards to race, gender, and disability.
People with disability are encouraged to apply. All costs incurred due to your
application and interviews will be at your own expense. Tshwane North TVET
College would like to invite suitably qualified, innovative, result-orientated and
self–driven candidates to apply for their vacant positions.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/90 : EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELNESS PRACTITIONER REF NO:
EHP/30/05/2025
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Corporates Services
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent plus an appropriate bachelor’s degree/national diploma
(NQF Level 6) in Psychology and/or Social Work majoring in psychology or
equivalent qualification, A minimum of three (3) to five (5) years of practical
experience in the Employee Health and Wellness environment. Willingness to
travel and a valid driver’s licence. Skills & Competencies: Knowledge of
Employee Health and Wellness Integrated Strategic Framework in the Public
Service. Sound knowledge of all four EHW Pillars, in-depth knowledge in
conducting counselling, psychoeducation, and trauma debriefing. EH&W
candidates who are registered with the respective professional bodies will have
an added advantage. Understanding of all Pillar processes and COID Act.
Interpersonal relations skills. Communication skills (written and verbal)
presentation and listening). Analytical thinking, problem-solving and decision-
64
making skills, Innovative and creative, Project management skills, presentation
skills, Strategic capability, Client orientation, change management skills, report
writing skills, confidentiality, and code of ethics. Understanding of Public
Service legislation, regulations, and policies. Computer literacy in MS Word,
Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook. Good coordination and report writing skills.
DUTIES : Administer the Employee Health and Wellness Programme. Assist with the
planning, coordination and implementation of all Health and Wellness
interventions. Assist with the evaluation of the impact of employee health and
wellness programmes. Provide education and awareness on health and
wellness related issues. Provide advice and guidance to management and staff
on EH&W related matters. Ensure the monitoring and evaluation of the EH&W.
Benchmark EH&W practices to ensure best practice in all EH&W programmes
for Regional Office, CET and TVET Colleges staff. Promote health awareness
and the facilitation of health-related events, activities, and interventions
(Wellness Day, HIV/AIDS, etc.). Conduct counselling, psycho-education, and
trauma debriefing. Facilitate and monitor the implementation of any required
recommendations made by the service providers. Ability to unpack and analyse
the implementation of incapacity leaves and the management of sick leave
trends, compiling submission on ill-health Retirement for the employees.
Managing wellness centre, providing First-Aid to employees and management
administration of Injury on duty. Active case management. Effective record
management. Compiling and writing EH&W reports, system monitoring tools
and submissions/internal and external memorandums. Perform any other
related.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MA Matokong Tel No: (018) 384 2346/50
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/91 : SPORT, ARTS AND CULTURE OFFICER REF NO: SAC/29/05/2025
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Registration Services Student Support
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Incumbent should have a relevant Senior Certificate / Grade 12/ NCV
Certificate (Level 4). Recognized three (3) year National Diploma (NQF level
65
6) in sports Management/ Administration or equivalent. 1-2 years’ experience
in sports and culture environment. Driver’s license will be an advantage. Sports
Administration, cultural administration, project management, ability to capture
data, operating computer, collecting statistics, legislative framework governing
the Public Services, and knowledge of procedures in terms of the working
environment.
DUTIES : Coordinate the establishment and provide support to sport and recreation
structures in schools, wards, and local areas, in conjunction with the
stakeholders. Facilitate sustainable capacity development programs in sport
within the schools, wards, local areas, and districts. Implement sport and
recreation programs in the schools, wards, and local areas for the development
of sport and recreation. Monitor and evaluate the compliance with sport and
recreation transformational Policies. Render administrative functions in relation
to programs that are implemented and to implement arts and culture
programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms ME Tlhako Tel No: (018) 384 2346
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/92 : STATE ACCOUNTANT REF NO:SA/27/05/2025 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Financial Accounting Finance Management
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent plus a recognized National Diploma in Financial
Management (NQF Level 6) or Bachelor’s degree. 2-3 years’ experience in
financial management environment. Basic knowledge of financial functions,
practices as well as the ability to capture, operate computer and collate
financial statistics. Basic knowledge of the Public Service financial legislations,
procedures and Treasury Regulations (PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA,
Financial Manual). Knowledge of basic financial operating systems (PERSAL,
BAS, LOGIS). Skills: Planning and organizing skills. Good verbal and written
communication. Ability to perform routine tasks. Ability to operate office
equipment. Interpersonal Relations. Accuracy. Flexibility. Aptitudes of figures
and valid driver’s licence.
66
DUTIES : To supervise the implementation and maintenance of Financial Management
practices concerning Financial Administration processes. Salaries (Payments,
Deductions etc.). Tax (payment to SARS, calculation of Tax payable etc.). Debt.
Bookkeeping (Clear Ledger accounts, Capture BAS Payments, Journals and
Reports). Banking. Revenue (Cashier). Budget (Capture Budget, Virement,
Adjustment Budget on BAS etc.). To address financial management enquiries
to ensure the correct implementation of financial management practices. To
verify transactions on LOGIS / BAS/ PERSAL according to delegations. To
supervise human resources/staff. Allocate and ensure quality of work.
Personnel development. Assess staff performance. Apply discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MA Matokong Tel No: (018) 384 2346/50
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/93 : CAREER GUIDANCE OFFICER REF NO: CG/26/05/2025 (X1 POST)
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Academic And Student Administration Support Mafikeng Campus
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mafikeng Campus
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/NCV) Level 4 or equivalent with an appropriate Diploma or BA
Degree qualification (REQV 14) in Psychology/Social Science or equivalent
qualification. Registration with relevant Council (HPCSA/SACSSP). Minimum
of 2-3 years relevant experience in career development / guidance and
counselling or relevant environment. Computer Literacy. A valid driver’s
licence. Knowledge & Skills: Knowledge of career guidance; Knowledge of
career counselling; Knowledge of career exhibitions; PSET and CET Act;
Public Service prescripts; DHET Policies; Industrial operation; Opportunity
linkages with industries. Excellent Communication (oral and written).
Networking; Negotiation; Research; Interpersonal; Planning & Organising.
DUTIES : Provide career guidance and testing of prospective students (in collaboration
with the registration unit) Provide academic and individual counselling sessions
to students. Coordinate and provide career exhibition services. Implement
programmes to coach, mentor and develop student job readiness. Registration
and enrolment support. Students counselling and referrals. Students career
guidance support. Coordinate student wellness programs. Facilitate outreach
67
programme for students. Assist with student’s events organisation and
administration. Assist with placement of students.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MA Matokong Tel No: (018) 384 2346/50
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/94 : EXAMINATION OFFICER (X3 POSTS)
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Mafikeng Campus Academic and Student Administration Support
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mafikeng Campus Ref No: TSO/EO/23/05/2025
Lehurutshe Campus Ref No: LE/EO/24/05/2025
Lichtenburg Campus Ref No: TA/EO/25/05/2025
REQUIREMENTS : Matric or NCV Level 4 with a recognized M+3 years Degree or National
Diploma in Education /Administration or equivalent qualification;3-5 years in
the teaching and learning environment/related field; Knowledge of White Paper
on PSET Act; knowledge of Public TVET sector and its regulatory and
legislative framework; Knowledge and understating of the Higher Education
sector; Knowledge and understanding of TVETMIS, and ITS; Sound
knowledge of legislation regulating examinations and assessments; Computer
literate in MS Office( Word, Excel, Outlook and internet);A valid driver's license.
Skills and Competencies Management; Computer skills; Communication;
Client Service; Visionary Leadership Abilities; An understanding of
transformation issues and capacity building processes in the DIET sector;
Sound knowledge of CET Act, policies and practices and any other relevant
legislations. Good interpersonal skills; Good problem solving and analytical
skills; Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines; Ability to work
independently as well as in a team; planning, organising, leading and control
skills; research, report writing and presentation skills.
DUTIES : Ensure the provision of examination services; Conduct training of Invigilators,
Markers and Data Capturers; Establish the function of Irregularity Committee;
Ensure the management and control of issuing of the certificates; Ensure
proper administration of the examination unit; Manage all human, financial and
other resources in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms ME Tlhako, Ms MA Matokong, Ms KL Mooka Tel No: (018) 384 2346
68
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/95 : CHIEF REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: CRC/22/05/2025
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Human Resource and Administration Corporate Services
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Matric)/ a SAQA recognised National Diploma or an equivalent
qualification. At least 3-5 years’ working experience in Registry. A certificate in
Records Management offered by National Archives. Knowledge of registry
duties, mailing, courier services as well as the ability to capture data and
operate a computer. Knowledge of filing of documents, storage, and retrieval
procedures in terms of the working environment. Working knowledge and
understanding of legislative framework governing the Registry work such as
NARS Act, Public Service Act, etc. Ability to interpret and apply policies,
directives, and relevant prescripts. Understanding of the work in Registry. Good
verbal and writing skills. Good leadership skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for supervising the opening and
closing of files according to the applicable record classification system; Filing,
storing, tracing and retrieving documents and pending files; Ensuring that index
cards are completed; Helping with the allocation of filing numbers; supervising
the usage of the franking machine by delegated registry clerks; Franking mail
items, recording items of monetary values received through the post and
updating the control registers on a daily basis; Do spot checks on postal articles
in order to ensure that no private postal articles are franked by mistake; Locking
mail in the postal bag for messengers/drivers to deliver to the Post Office;
Maintaining remittance register; Recording all valuable articles as prescribed
by the applicable laws and policies; Sending wrong remittances received back
to senders through registered post and recording reference numbers in the
register; Keeping daily record of amount of letters franked; Handling all courier
related enquiries; Supervising the sorting and dispatching of mail; Distributing
notices on registry issues; Attending to clients; Handling telephonic enquiries
on Registry related work; Receiving and registering hand delivered mail and
files; Scanning files electronically; Sorting and packaging files for archiving and
69
distribution; Compiling list of documents to be archived and submitting the list
to the supervisor; Keeping record of the archived documents; Providing
supervisory duties to Registry Clerks, assessing staff performance and
applying discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Mailula N.W Tel No: (018) 384 2346/50
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/96 : FINANCIAL AID OFFICER REF NO: FAO/20/05/2025
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07
CENTRE : Central office
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate or equivalent plus a National Diploma / Degree in Financial
Accounting or equivalent qualification. 2 years’ experience working in the
bursary administration environment. A good understanding of the TVET
College Bursary Scheme requirements and regulations of the National
Students Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS). Basic knowledge of financial
functions, practices as well as the ability to capture data. Operate computer
and collate financial statistics. Communication skills (verbal and written).
Interpersonal relations. Basic numeracy skills. Teamwork. Ability to perform
routine tasks. Ability to operate office equipment. Working under pressure.
Meeting deadlines. Extensive working skills on MS Excel is required for this
position. MS Excel skills will be determined during a practical that forms part of
the verbal interview score. A driver’s licence will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Provide student financial assistance support at all registration times. Provide
advocacy on all financial aid support to new students during registration and
orientation period. Provide advocacy on all financial aid support to progressing
and gap year students. Support students and facilitate smooth registration and
application of financial assistance to both new and progressing applicants.
Provide support and facilitate NSFAS online system. Capture campus NSFAS
applicants on the registration template for submission to NSFAS. Assist
students with private accommodation and travel allowance applications.
Administer student attendance report requisitions. Verify student
70
accommodation with property owners. Be responsible for verbal and written
enquiries from students, parents and other relevant stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MA Matokong Tel No: (018) 384 2346/50
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/97 : EXAMINATION OFFICER (X2 POSTS)
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), plus benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria Campus Ref No: TNC/PC/25 – 06/6
Mamelodi Campus Ref No: TNC/MC/25 – 06/7
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate or NC (V) Level 4 certificate with a National Diploma/Degree
in Management Assistant / Office Administration or equivalent qualification. At
least 1 - 2 years’ experience at a TVET College or in an educational institution.
Knowledge of White Paper on PSET. Knowledge of Public TVET sector and its
regulatory and legislative framework. Knowledge and understanding of
TVETMIS, and ITS, TVET National Examination Policies, Government
Gazette: Conduct of Examination, DHET Punctuality Policy, Examination
requirements for Exam Centres. Sound knowledge of legislation regulating
examinations and assessments Excellent computer skills/knowledge of
Microsoft Office packages. Good leadership skills. Ability to write reports. Must
be able to work under pressure, in a team, independently and for longer hours.
Use problem-solving techniques to tactfully address queries / concerns. Ability
to perform routine tasks and meet deadlines. Effective organisational,
administration, time management, communication (verbal and written) and
planning skills. Computer literate in MS Office (Word, Excel, Outlook and
internet). A valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Updating and verification of final examination marks on the ITS System;
verification of captured final examination marks. Capture examination
enrolments on ITS System. Issuing of term mark sheets for completion and
returning back. Issuing of exam permits and preparing exam venues to be
conducive enough to run exams. Compile the daily examination reports and
submit to the Curriculum Implementation. Submit examination irregularities to
the DHET National and Examination irregularity committee. Ensure that there
is a smooth receiving, collating and dispatching of both full-time and part-time
71
scripts to the National Examination marking centres. Be a Distribution Point
manager during the examination period. Oversee the implementation of
DHET/College Management plans regarding examinations. Be the liaising
person between the college and DHET on all the examination related matters.
Implement the College examination related policies. Verify and declare
students qualifying for graduation to the graduation committee. Issuing of
statement of results, examination permits, certificates and diploma
applications. Timeous completion of preliminary schedule to make
amendments and send to the department for corrections. Assist with the
submission of outstanding ICASS/POE’s and keep electronic records.
Execution of examination duties according to the national Examination Policy
for National Certificate Vocational (NCV) and Report 191 (NATED). Application
for examination concessions to the DHET. Ensure the provision of examination
services; facilitate the process of invigilation training, pre-examination meeting
for students, markers and data Capturers; Establish the function of Irregularity
Committee; Ensure proper administration of the examination unit; Manage all
human, financial and other resources in the unit. Ensure record management
and reporting every examination cycle. Execution of any other duties assigned.
ENQUIRIES : Should you have enquiries or experience any problem submitting your
application contact Mr TH Ngubane Tel No: (012) 401 1989 / Ms JM Nyalunga
Tel No: (012) 401 1940
APPLICATIONS : Email to examofficerpc@tnc.edu.za for Pretoria Campus and
examofficermc@tnc.edu.za for Mamelodi Campus
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the New Z83 which must be fully completed,
obtainable from any Public Service Department and must be accompanied by
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications including academic records, driver’s
license, and identity document. Please take note that communication in relation
to the process will be limited to the short-listed candidates. If you have not
received any correspondence within three (3) months after the closing date,
please consider your application unsuccessful. Please quote the relevant
reference number of the post you are applying for. Candidates who apply for
more than one post should complete a separate application form for each post.
Applications received after the closing date will NOT be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a vetting process: criminal record, citizenship,
credit record checks, and qualifications. Shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to a skills/knowledge/competence test. The College/DHET reserves
the right not to make appointments. Preference will be given to persons from
designated groups, especially with regards to race, gender, and disability.
People with disability are encouraged to apply. All costs incurred due to your
application and interviews will be at your own expense. Tshwane North TVET
College would like to invite suitably qualified, innovative, result-orientated and
self–driven candidates to apply for their vacant positions.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/98 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK (X3 POSTS)
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Taletso Academic and Student Administration
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mafikeng Campus Ref No: AC/17/05/2025
Lehurutshe Campus Ref No: AC/18/05/2025
Lichtenburg Campus Ref No: AC/19/05/2025
REQUIREMENTS : Senior/Matric certificate. Knowledge: Working knowledge and understanding
of the legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of
registry duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, and operate
computer. Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the
working environment. Understanding of the work in registry. Knowledge of the
National Archives and Record Management Act and related instructions.
Knowledge of and ability to handle labour saving devices. Skills: Computer
Literacy. Good verbal and written communication skills. Planning and
organisation. Interpersonal relations / teamwork. Filing and reference skills.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organize, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers and
statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles. Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as
required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the component. Type letters
72
and / or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the incoming
and outgoing document register of the component. Provide supply chain
clerical support services within the component. Liaise with internal and external
stakeholders in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain
quotations, complete procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office
items. Stock control of office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register
of the component. Provide personnel administration clerical support services
within the component. Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and
maintain personnel records in the component. Arrange traveling and
accommodation. Keep and maintain the attendance register of the component.
Provide financial administration support services in the component. Capture
and update expenditure in the component. Check correctness of subsistence
and travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval. Handle
telephone accounts and petty cash.
ENQUIRIES : Ms ME Tlhako, Ms MA Matokong, Ms KL Mooka Tel No: (018) 384 2346
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/99 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (ASSETS)
REF NO: SC/16/05/2025
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: General Administration Support Mafikeng Campus
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mafikeng Campus
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent plus Minimum educational qualification: Senior
Certificate (or equivalent) with mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed
subject and/or senior certificate (or equivalent) with experience/competencies
that focus on the key performance areas of the post. Experience: Appropriate
Asset Management experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s licence. Physical Ability to lift /move heavy objects and supplies.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (Word and excel). Soud
theoretical and practical knowledge of policies regarding financial and Supply
chain Management. Knowledge of Asset Management (LOGIS functions or
Modules in LOGIS).
73
DUTIES : Maintain and update asset register. Procure assets and services on EPS.
Ensure that all transactions comply with the legislative requirements. Manage
Assets movement, inventory update, bar-coding, and maintenance of
equipment. Undertake interim and annual financial stock takes, reporting of
losses, theft shortages and surpluses as well as monthly reporting. Ensure
disposals of assets pertaining to SCM policies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MA Matokong Tel No: (018) 3842346/50
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/100 : FINANCE CLERK
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Taletso Financial Management Services
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mafikeng Campus Ref No: FC/14/05/2025 (X1 Post)
Central Office Ref No: FC/15/05/2025 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate or equivalent plus a National Diploma/bachelor’s degree in
financial management, Accounting, or related qualification. At least 1 year’
experience in finance or accounting related field, Basic understanding of
financial functions, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate
computer and collate financial information, Basic knowledge of the Public
Service financial legislations, procedures and Treasury Regulations (PFMA,
GRAP, CET ACT 16 OF 2006). Competencies, Abilities and Skills: Knowledge
of basic financial principles and procedures, ability to perform adequately and
methodically under pressure, verbal and written communication skills,
proficiency in MS office suite, Knowledge of ITS will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Accurately enter financial data into the College’s accounting systems and
maintain up-to-date records for both receivables and payables. Maintain a
systematic and accurate filing system for all financial documentation, including
invoices, receipts, and payment records. Work closely with the finance team,
registrar’s office, and procurement departments to ensure smooth operations
and timely processing of financial transactions. Provide necessary
documentation and support during internal and external audits related to
accounts receivable and payable.
74
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/101 : SECRETARY
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Taletso Office of The Campus Manager
SALARY : R228 321.00 to R268 950.00 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Lehurutshe Campus Ref No: SE/10/05/2025 (X1 Post)
Mafikeng Campus Ref No: SE/11/05/2025 (X1 Post)
Lichtenburg Campus Ref No: SE/12/05/2025 (X1 Post)
Central Office Ref No: SE/13/05/2025 (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate or equivalent plus a National Diploma in Management
Assistant/Office Administration. 1-3 years’ experience in typing and secretarial
support. Basic knowledge of financial management. Record management of
documents. Ability to communicate well with people at different levels and
backgrounds. Good telephone etiquette. Computer literacy. Sound
organizational skills. Good people skills. High level of reliability. Basic written
communication skills. Ability to act with tact and discretion.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial/ receptionist support service to the manager. Receive
telephone calls and refer the calls to the correct role players if not meant for
the relevant manager. Ensure proper record keeping in the office of the
Campus Manager. Filing of documents for the manager and the campus where
required. Receive, record, and distribute all incoming and outgoing
correspondence. Collect all relevant documents to enable the manager to
prepare for meetings. Prepare travel claims and other payments in the office of
the Campus Manager. Arrange meetings and events for the manager and the
staff in the campus. Identify venues, invite role players, organize refreshments,
and sets up schedules for meetings and events. Arrange all logistics for
workshops. Track and process documents. Manage the office of the Campus
Manager and receive visitors. Perform any other administrative duties that will
be assigned by the Campus Manager. Compile and consolidate sectional
reports for the campus.
ENQUIRIES : Ms ME Tlhako, Ms MA Matokong, Ms KL Mooka Tel No: (018) 384 2346
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
75
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/102 : HR ADMINISTARTION CLERK REF NO: HRC/09/05/2025
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Corporates Services
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Central office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent certificate, relevant qualification in Human Resource
Management with 1-year experience in Human Resource Department.
Computer Literacy. Knowledge of Human Resource Administration Processes.
Knowledge of PERSAL system. Knowledge of HR prescripts and regulations.
PERSAL Introduction certificate will be an added advantage. Ability to
communicate well with people at different levels and from different
backgrounds. Ability to handle confidential information. Ability to work in a team
and under pressure. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Perform Human Resource Administration functions such as recruitment and
selection, appointments, transfers, relocations, promotion, termination of
service, leave Management, PILIR, allowances, salaries etc. provide HR
related advice and assistance to staff members and students in the execution
of daily tasks. Ensure safekeeping of documents and filing of all related
documents for staff members and student’s. Perform any other task delegated
by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms ME Tlhako Tel No: (018) 384 2346/50.
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
76
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/103 : BURSARY CLERK REF NO: TNC/TC/25-06/8
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), plus benefits
CENTRE : Temba Campus
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate or equivalent plus a National Diploma / Degree in Financial
Accounting or equivalent qualification. A good understanding of the TVET
College Bursary Scheme requirements and regulations of the National
Students Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS). Basic knowledge of financial
functions, practices as well as the ability to capture data. Operate computer
and collate financial statistics. Communication skills (verbal and written).
Interpersonal relations. Basic numeracy skills. Teamwork. Ability to perform
routine tasks. Ability to operate office equipment. Working under pressure.
Meeting deadlines. Extensive working skills on MS Excel is required for this
position. MS Excel skills will be determined during a practical that forms part of
the verbal interview score. Knowledge of bursary operations. A driver’s licence
will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Provide student financial assistance support at all registration times. Provide
advocacy on all financial aid support to new students during registration and
orientation period. Provide advocacy on all financial aid support to progressing
and gap year students. Support students and facilitate smooth registration and
application of financial assistance to both new and progressing applicants.
Provide support and facilitate NSFAS online system. Capture campus NSFAS
applicants on the registration template for submission to NSFAS. Assist
students with private accommodation and travel allowance applications.
Administer student attendance report requisitions. Verify student
accommodation with property owners and provide reports. Advocacy of
bursary at the Campus. Induction of students and the changes in the eligibility
guidelines. Be responsible for the administration of other bursaries. Be
responsible for verbal and written enquiries from students, parents and other
relevant stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Should you have enquiries or experience any problem submitting your
application contact Mr TH Ngubane Tel No: (012) 401 1989 / Ms JM Nyalunga
Tel No: (012) 401 1940
APPLICATIONS : Email to bursaryclerk@tnc.edu.za
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the New Z83 which must be fully completed,
obtainable from any Public Service Department and must be accompanied by
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications including academic records, driver’s
license, and identity document. Please take note that communication in relation
to the process will be limited to the short-listed candidates. If you have not
received any correspondence within three (3) months after the closing date,
please consider your application unsuccessful. Please quote the relevant
reference number of the post you are applying for. Candidates who apply for
more than one post should complete a separate application form for each post.
Applications received after the closing date will NOT be accepted. Shortlisted
77
candidates will be subjected to a vetting process: criminal record, citizenship,
credit record checks, and qualifications. Shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to a skills/knowledge/competence test. The College/DHET reserves
the right not to make appointments. Preference will be given to persons from
designated groups, especially with regards to race, gender, and disability.
People with disability are encouraged to apply. All costs incurred due to your
application and interviews will be at your own expense. Tshwane North TVET
College would like to invite suitably qualified, innovative, result-orientated and
self–driven candidates to apply for their vacant positions.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/104 : SECRETARY TO THE CAMPUS MANAGER REF NO: TNC/TC/25 – 06/9
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), plus benefits
CENTRE : Temba Campus
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate or equivalent plus a National Diploma in Management
Assistant/Office Administration. 1-3 years’ experience in typing and secretarial
support. Basic knowledge of financial management. Record management of
documents. Ability to communicate well with people at different levels and
backgrounds. Good telephone etiquette. Computer literacy. Sound
organizational skills. Good people skills. High level of reliability. Basic written
communication skills. Ability to act with tact and discretion.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial/ receptionist support service to the manager. Receive
telephone calls and refer the calls to the correct role players if not meant for
the relevant manager. Ensure proper record keeping in the office of the
Campus Manager. Filing of documents for the manager and the campus where
required. Receive, record, and distribute all incoming and outgoing
correspondence. Collect all relevant documents to enable the manager to
prepare for meetings. Prepare travel claims and other payments in the office of
the Campus Manager. Arrange meetings and events for the manager and the
staff in the campus. Identify venues, invite role players, organize refreshments,
and sets up schedules for meetings and events. Arrange all logistics for
workshops. Track and process documents. Manage the office of the Campus
Manager and receive visitors. Perform any other administrative duties that will
be assigned by the Campus Manager. Compile and consolidate sectional
reports for the campus.
ENQUIRIES : Should you have enquiries or experience any problem submitting your
application contact Mr TH Ngubane Tel No: (012) 401 1989 / Ms JM Nyalunga
Tel No: (012) 401 1940
APPLICATIONS : Email to secretarytocm@tnc.edu.za
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the New Z83 which must be fully completed,
obtainable from any Public Service Department and must be accompanied by
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications including academic records, driver’s
license, and identity document. Please take note that communication in relation
to the process will be limited to the short-listed candidates. If you have not
received any correspondence within three (3) months after the closing date,
please consider your application unsuccessful. Please quote the relevant
reference number of the post you are applying for. Candidates who apply for
more than one post should complete a separate application form for each post.
Applications received after the closing date will NOT be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a vetting process: criminal record, citizenship,
credit record checks, and qualifications. Shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to a skills/knowledge/competence test. The College/DHET reserves
the right not to make appointments. Preference will be given to persons from
designated groups, especially with regards to race, gender, and disability.
People with disability are encouraged to apply. All costs incurred due to your
application and interviews will be at your own expense. Tshwane North TVET
College would like to invite suitably qualified, innovative, result-orientated and
self–driven candidates to apply for their vacant positions.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
78
POST 21/105 : TALETSO RECEPTIONIST
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Taletso General Administration Support
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Central Office Ref No: REC/05/05/2025 (X1 Post)
Mafikeng Ref No: REC/06/05/2025 (X1 Post)
Lehurutshe Ref No: REC/07/05/2025 (X1 Post)
Lichtenburg Ref No: REC/08/05/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIEREMENTS : Grade 12 or NQF Level 4; additional certificates in Office Management or
Management Assistant will be an advantage. Proficiency in Microsoft Office
Suite, Hands-on experience with office equipment (e.g. Fax machines and
printers), Professional attitude and appearance, Solid written and verbal
communication skills, Ability to be resourceful and proactive when issues arise,
Excellent organizational skills, Multitasking and time-management skills, with
the ability to prioritize tasks and Customer service attitude. Experience:
Previous experience will be added as advantage.
DUTIES : Greet and welcome guests as soon as they arrive at the office, Direct visitors
to the appropriate person and office, Answer, screen and forward incoming
phone calls, Ensure reception area is tidy and presentable with all necessary
stationery and material (e.g. pens, forms and brochures),Provide basic and
accurate information in-person and via phone/email, Receive, sort and
distribute daily mail/deliveries, Maintain office security by following safety
procedures and controlling access via the reception desk (monitor logbook,
issue visitor badges),Order front office supplies and keep inventory of stock,
Update calendars and schedule meetings, Arrange travel and
accommodations, and prepare vouchers, Keep updated records of office
expenses and costs, perform other clerical receptionist duties such as filing
and photocopying, transcribing and faxing.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MA Matokong, Ms ME Tlhako, Ms KL Mooka; Tel No: (018) 384-23416/50
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
79
POST 21/106 : MESSENGER / DRIVER
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: Taletso General Administration Support
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Mafikeng Campus Ref No: REC/04/05/2025 (X1 Post)
Lehurutshe Campus Ref No: REC/005/05/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 (Grade 11 certificate or equivalent). Driver’s license Code B/EB.
Valid Public driving licence. Three (3) years driving experience or messenger
operating experience will be an added advantage. Ability to transport
employees, goods/parcels and work under pressure including
overtime/weekends and public holidays. Physically fit and able to lift and load
goods/parcels. Be able to read and write.
DUTIES : Render messenger services to the department: Deliver and collect mail from
the post office. Deliver and collect documents / parcels to the various
directorates in the departments and other provincial departments. Conduct
scaling of parcels and mail. Label and track all documents for couriering
documents and parcels. Provide transportation duties to the department:
Render transport services to departmental officials. Check and prepare
vehicles for field trips. Complete logbook before and after the trip. Load and
dispatch items. Perform vehicle maintenance checks: Check vehicles status
and inform supervisor when work needs to be carried out within and without an
approved trip. Ensure vehicles are always in good operating condition. Report
to supervisor when vehicles are due for service or had any mechanical faults.
Report major defects. Ensure routine maintenance of vehicles. Provide general
office support: Render a general support function in the Executive Support to
the Premier. Assist with document reproduction and facsimile services. Record
keeping of the utilization of the allocated motor vehicle e.g. log sheets and
petrol receipts. Maintain knowledge on the policies and procedures that apply
in the work environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MA Matokong, Ms ME Tlhako Tel No: (018) 384-23416/50
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
80
POST 21/107 : CLEARNERS SUPERVISOR REF NO: CS/01/05/2025
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: General Administration Support Lichtenburg Campus
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Lichtenburg Campus
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Matric/Grade 12, Minimum 2 years supervisory experience in a
similar environment, Ideal experience in commercial or hospitality industries
advantageous, Safety standards and management. Skills and Competencies:
Attention to detail, Sense of urgency, Able to work under pressure, Be flexible
and adaptable, Able to work independently, good communication skills.
DUTIES : Ensure work schedules/job cards are in place for each position and relevant to
site, Report maintenance and safety concerns to the manager on a day-to-day
bases, ensure consistently high service standards are maintained for all
services in scope with regular inspections, ensure that staff are correctly and
smartly dressed displaying a name badge. Highlight to sites the importance of
always upholding the company image, ensure that cleaning methodology are
strictly adhered to in line with company policies, quality programmes and
legislation, managing company assets by performing monthly spot checks on
high value items. When checking assets ensure that equipment is kept in a
good condition and repaired and serviced when required, Do daily checks and
follow-ups, Report maintenance and safety concerns to the manager on a day-
to-day basis, Maintain personal health, hygiene and professional appearance,
Responding to management request timeously and providing necessary action
required, Hospitality or commercial experience, To maintain a high standard of
morale and motivation through good communication skills, Ensure work
schedules/job cards are in place for each position and relevant to site.
ENQUIRIES : Ms KL Mooka Tel No: (018) 384 2346/50
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
POST 21/108 : HANDYMAN
Branch: Taletso TVET College
Directorate: General Administration Support Lehurutshe Campus
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03)
81
CENTRE : Lehurutshe Campus Ref No: HM/02/05/2025
Lichtenburg Campus Ref No: TA/03/05/2025
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10, ABET level 3 or recognized trade certificate. Minimum of three (3)
years ‘experience in building maintenance. Welding experience will be an
added advantage.
DUTIES : Perform minor maintenance i.e., unblock drains, urinary and toilets. Replace
taps. Conduct inspection determines defects. Repair broken furniture. Paint
buildings as per request. Ensure tools are cleaned and stored in a safe
environment. Maintain main kitchen fat drain. Clean gutters. Maintain storm
water channels. Report the need for major maintenance to the supervisor.
Perform any other ad hock activities in relation to functions attached to this
post. Replace taps. Conduct inspection determines defects. Repair broken
furniture. Paint buildings as per request. Ensure tools are cleaned and stored
in a safe environment. Maintain main kitchen fat drain. Clean gutters. Maintain
storm water channels. Report the need for major maintenance to the
supervisor. Perform any other ad hock activities in relation to functions attached
to this post. Perform minor maintenance i.e., unblock drains, urinary and toilets.
Replace taps. Conduct inspection determines defects. Repair broken furniture.
Paint buildings as per request. Ensure tools are cleaned and stored in a safe
environment. Maintain main kitchen fat drain. Clean gutters. Maintain storm
water channels. Report the need for major maintenance to the supervisor.
Perform any other ad hock activities in relation to functions attached to this.
ENQUIRIES : Ms ME Tlhako, Ms KL Mooka Tel No: (018) 384 2346/50
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivery to; Taletso TVET College, Kgora Building next to SABC, HR
Office (Mafikeng Campus) or NB: ALL applications must submitted to relevant
email address stating name of the post and reference number on the subject
line.
Lehurutshe.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Lichtenburg.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Mafikeng.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
Centraloffice.recruitment@taletso.edu.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applicants must submit fully completed and
signed Z83 and CV only. The communication from the HR of the Department
regarding the requirements of the certified documents will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from HR Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (submit only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. The Department does not
accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). The department have
the right not to appoint. Intention to promote presentively (race, gender, and
disability) in the Public Service through the filling of these posts. The
Department reserves the right not to appoint/fill this post. NB: The Public
Service does not charge any fees for applying for posts. Should you be asked
for a fee, please let the authorities know. People with disability are encouraged
to apply.
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
82
ANNEXURE G
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
CLOSING DATE : 07 July 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success. The applicant’s
profile on the e-Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83 and it is
the responsibility of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or
their applications will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note.
Certain documentation will still be required to be uploaded on the system such
as copies of all qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric
certificate, ID, etc., however these documents need not be certified at point of
application, however certification will be required prior to attending the
interview. Please note: All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to two
assessments. The first assessment will be a technical exercise that intends to
test relevant technical elements of the job, while the second assessment will
be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Successful completion of the Nyukela
Public Service SMS Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School
of Government, available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of appointment. All qualifications, criminal and SA citizenship
checks will be conducted on all short-listed candidates and, where applicable,
additional checks will be conducted in line with the new DPSA Directive
effective 01 April 2024. By submitting your application, it also means you
consent to the National Treasury processing your information for Human
Resources Management purposes. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level certificates) evaluated
by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at your own expense.
The status of your application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system.
However, if you have not received feedback from the National Treasury within
3 months of the closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful.
Note: The National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned
posts, withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. The
National Treasury is compliant to the requirements of POPIA.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 21/109 : DIRECTOR: SCM STRATEGIC PROCUREMENT REF NO: S011/2025
Division: Office of The Chief Procurement Officer (OCPO)
Purpose: To provide strategic procurement support services to improve
performance and efficiency of the state procurement system including value for
money and leveraged benefits in all three spheres of government.
SALARY : R1 216 824 - R1 433 355 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum Bachelor’s degree (equivalent
to NQF 7) in any of the following disciplines: Supply Chain Management or
Logistics or Purchasing or Management or Commerce, A minimum 5 years’
experience at a middle or senior managerial level obtained in Supply Chain
Management environment, Knowledge of PFMA, Treasury Regulations, SCM
Policies and prescripts, Knowledge and experience of policy analysis and
development, Knowledge and experience in strategic procurement, Knowledge
and experience in gathering, analysing, and dissemination of information,
Knowledge and experience in data gathering, analysing, and dissemination of
information, Experience in Project Management, Successful completion of the
Nyukela Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme as
83
endorsed by the National School of Government available as an online course
on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/,
prior to finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Some key Outputs include: Strategy and Policy: Collaborate on and contribute
to the design, development and maintenance of a strategic procurement
framework including: national guidelines, processes, and standards for
strategic procurement, a strategic procurement monitoring and evaluation
system, Manage the dissemination of the strategic procurement framework to
all three spheres of government, Provide input into the development of
strategic procurement-related government policy, norms, standards,
frameworks, and guidelines, Manage and support the design and development
of a strategic procurement regulatory environment that responds to policy goals
and government objectives. Stakeholder Management: Engage with
government stakeholders to facilitate and coordinate the development and
implementation of strategic procurement strategies and plans (national,
provincial, and local spheres), Engage with public sector-specific strategic
partners to support the development and implementation of strategic
procurement strategies and plans, Engage with external stakeholders to
facilitate and coordinate the development and implementation of strategic
procurement services. Products and Services Management: Manage the
scoping and analysis of demand management plans, budget documents,
procurement plans, AG reports, and grant allocations (annually; as required),
Contribute to and manage the design and development of strategic
procurement strategies for universal products and services across government
spheres, Manage the design and development of strategic procurement work
plans for: Client engagement, Service delivery, Monitoring and evaluation.
Service Delivery: Manage the scoping and analysis of demand management
plans, budget documents, procurement plans, AG reports, and grant
allocations (annually; as required), Manage the identification of key strategic
procurement project opportunities for targeting based on: the importance of the
commodity/service to achieve service delivery, and the complexity of the supply
market, Manage client environment and strategic procurement-related reports
and diagnostics, Manage the research, development and proposal of strategic
procurement solutions for identified strategic procurement projects (client
centric / commodity centric) including: strategic procurement best-practices,
strategic procurement spend analysis and research, strategic procurement
recommendations, strategic procurement recommendations facilitation and
implementation, Manage and/or assist with the development and
implementation of strategic procurement plans to ensure that value for money
is achieved and benefits are leveraged. Monitoring and Evaluation: Collaborate
on and contribute to monitoring and evaluation systems for strategic
procurement, Manage the monitoring, prediction and mitigation of strategic
procurement project risks and performance management, Manage the
monitoring, assessment, evaluation and reporting on strategic procurement
projects governance and oversight to measure value for money and leveraging
of benefits achievements, Manage the monitoring and reporting on the
progress of strategic procurement interventions, Evaluate and report on the
impact of strategic procurement interventions including value for money and
leveraging of benefits. Research and Development: Manage and perform
research and benchmarking on strategic procurement good practices, Identify
and recommend on new and alternative solutions to strategic procurement
services, Manage and report on strategic procurement trends analysis.
Knowledge and Information Management: Manage strategic procurement-
related knowledge and information, Manage the content of strategic
procurement-related KIM platforms.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
84
POST 21/110 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES SERVICE DELIVERY REF NO:
S005/2025
Division: Corporate Services (CS)
Re-advertisement, the post is re-advertised, applicants who previously applied
need not to re-apply.
Purpose: To provide strategic leadership and guidance in the provision of an
integrated HR approach and to act as a primary point of connection between
all internal stakeholders/business units and the overall HR team for the
alignment on the HR strategic objectives and implementations of key HR
initiatives within the National Treasury.
SALARY : R1 216 824 - R1 433 355 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum Bachelor’s degree (equivalent
to NQF 7) in any of the following disciplines: Human Resources Management
or Business Administration or Management or Public Administration or Public
Management, A minimum 5 years’ experience at a middle or senior managerial
level obtained within Human Resources Management environment or related
field, Knowledge and experience of the Public Service Human Resources
Management Legislative Framework, Knowledge and experience of the Public
Service Act and Regulations, Business Relations Skills in the HR environment,
Knowledge of Human Resources Information and application Systems,
Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service Senior Management
Leadership Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government
available as an online course on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Some key Outputs include: Strategy Development and Implementation:
Develop and implement a Human Resources Service Delivery Strategic
implementation plan to fast-track the turn-around time of human resources
service offering pertaining to clients’ needs, Provide guidance and lobby
internal support on the implementation of the most effective mechanisms and
tools to enhance collaboration and cohesion for improved service delivery with
regard to implementation of service offerings, Review policies continuously for
correct application in business and in alignment with the HR Service Delivery
Strategy in accordance with the ever-evolving environment against the
backdrop of the needs of clients, Develop, engage and commit on the service
level agreements by HR centres of excellence with the HR Service Delivery
Directorate. HR Service Delivery: Provide guidance and direction on the
effective implementation of HR offerings and services to clients , Implement a
collaborative strategy with regard to service delivery provisioning and initiate
projects in alignment with business requirements, Verify the correctness of the
application of HR Policies and Procedures, continuously, prior to
implementation of any new service offering in alignment the relevant policies
and procedures, Develop and apply a customer centric service delivery culture
within the National Treasury, Monitor the effectiveness of the implementation
of service offerings and align discrepancies, accordingly. Stakeholder
Engagement: Engage stakeholders through awareness drives on new service
offerings and their benefits prior to implementation, Collaborate and enhancing
partnerships with specialise business units within HRM to determine, and fast-
tracking deliverables and targets for implementation, Align business plans with
strategic objectives in achievement of HR objectives and targets, Provide
timeous feedback on requests to stakeholder’s concerns pertaining to service
offering, Ensure that divisional HR Metrics are presented to divisional
Exco/Manco and that focused employee matters are proactively raised and
attended to. HR Policy and Prescribes Analysis: Align the HR Service delivery
objectives with National Treasury annual business plans to conform to
business units demands, Influence and obtain buy-in from stakeholders within
business on HR initiatives and offerings, Develop and analyse a
comprehensive HR feedback analysis desk board portraying service offerings
and progress in support of business continuity, Align memoranda on HR
offerings and services for the smooth implementation within the broader
business, Develop and effectively implement Secondment Guidelines to
ensure strategic input to employee engagement and retention, Ensure that
Rotations Protocols are in place and serve as employee engagement,
development and retention.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
85
OTHER POSTS
POST 21/111 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE HEALTH, WELLNESS AND DIVERSITY
PROGRAMMES REF NO: S009/2025
Division: Corporate Services (CS)
Purpose: To manage, implement and maintain Employee Health, Wellness
(EHW) and Transformation Programmes.
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF 6) or Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF 7) in any of the following
disciplines: Psychology or Social Services, Registration with Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Counsellor or Psychologist,
or South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as a Social
Worker, A minimum 4 years’ experience of which 2 years should be on an
Assistant Director level or equivalent in Employee Health, Wellness and
Transformation Programmes related fields; and Knowledge and experience of
the management of an onsite health facility.
DUTIES : Some key Outputs include: Employee Health, Wellness and Diversity
Programmes Governance: Draft / review policies to guide the implementation
of EHW, Productivity Management and Diversity Programmes, Implement the
Employee Health and Wellness Strategic Framework, Develop and maintain
Employee Health and Wellness standard operating procedures for all EHW
programmes, Procure Employee Health and Wellness offerings and manage
service providers, Establish and coordinate Transformation, Gender and
Wellness Committee, Provide Employee Health and Wellness Management
Reports in line with DPSA prescripts. Wellness, Health and Productivity
Management: Conduct life skills training on time, conflict and stress
management in the workplace, Coordinate the promotion of physical health
through sports events, Coordinate the distribution of posters and brochures on
physical wellness, Facilitate and coordinate services for wellness day,
Liaise/Network with stakeholders and other organisations with regard to
Employee Wellness issues, and implement best practices accordingly, Utilise
internal communication to communicate and promote Employee Wellness
activities, Promote team building through recreational activities across the NT,
Market the Employee Wellness programme through poster awareness,
publication of health information monthly, information sessions,
commemoration of health events according to the Health and Wellness
calendar, liaison with employees / managers etc., Conduct absenteeism
analysis and compile reports. Facilitate the implementation of HIV and Aids,
TB and other Communicable Diseases Prevention, Support and Treatment
Care Programmes.: Draft/Review policies to guide the implementation of
HIV/AIDS and TB Management, Conduct HIV Counselling and Testing
campaigns, Conduct HIV, AIDS, STI, and TB information sharing sessions,
Monitor the distribution of male and female condoms, Facilitate the
implementation of HIV & AIDS programmes, Observe Health calendar days
and initiate awareness programmes within the NT. Coordinate and render
Employee Assistant Programme (EAP): Coordinate and render debriefing, pre-
counselling, referral, and support service to employees, Analyse individual as
well as group needs and identify psychosocial health risks, recommendations,
implementation and action plan to address risks, Recommend interventions
and provide support in the implementation of action plans to address health
risks identified through absenteeism reports, Administer and manage EAP
cases, Facilitate EAP support programmes, Market the EAP services. Facilitate
the implementation of Diversity Management programme: Develop or review
the NT policy and planning in line with the national gender policy framework as
outlined in the gender policy framework, Develop and motor the
implementation of the disability rights policy, special programs and
implementation guidelines, Assess progress in implementing the diversity
management policy guidelines, Evaluates the impact of diversity management
interventions within the NT, Manage the secretariat for Transformation, Gender
and Wellness Committee, Oversee the children’s waiting area.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
86
POST 21/112 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO: S010/2025
Division: Office of The Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To manage asset verification of items and recommend the disposal
of redundant and obsolete assets within the National Treasury.
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF 6) or Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF 7) in any of the following
disciplines: Financial or Management Accounting. A minimum of 4 years’
experience of which 2 years should be at an Assistant Director level or
equivalent obtained in a financial accounting or asset verification environment;
and Knowledge of the Public Service Policy Framework on Asset Management,
Knowledge and experience of the asset verification and redundancy process,
Knowledge of data management methodologies of the asset verification
classification.
DUTIES : Some key Outputs include: Account Assets in the Departmental Asset Register:
Calculate the value of all movable assets and support findings with required
documentation for record keeping. Account for asset of the department as
recorded in the departmental asset register and reconciled with general ledger.
Comply with all relevant and application statutes, regulations and departmental
prescripts applicable to the Department’s assets verification process. Compile
reports quality assurance purposes and align with information depicted in the
Department’s assets register. Prepare project documentation and plans and
oversee activities in accordance with the approved projects deliverables.
Disposal of Redundant or Obsolete Assets: Identify all redundant or obsolete
assets and prepare disposal measures for consideration and approval. Update
the asset register ensure all disposed assets are removed from the asset
register. Verify Existence of Departmental Assets: Verify the existence of all
departmental assets and prepare an update report on the status quo.
Reconcile the asset register with the updated verification outcome.
Departmental Policy Develop, Implementation and Maintenance: Develop and
implement policies and prescripts related to asset management and
verification. Implement asset acquisition and disposal plans of the department.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
POST 21/113 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: POLICY DEVELOPMENT AND INTERNAL
CONTROL REF NO: S008/2025
Division: Office of The Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To manage and oversee the internal control functions in compliance
with the Public Finance Management Act, 1999 and the Treasury Regulations.
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum, (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF 6) or Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF 7) in any of the following
disciplines: Financial Management or Financial Accounting or Auditing, A
minimum 3 years’ experience in obtained an accounting environment with
specific reference to financial reporting, compliance monitoring, internal control
and risk management. Knowledge and experience of exposure in internal
control. Knowledge and experience of exposure in financial reporting.
Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury
Regulations.
DUTIES : Some key Outputs include: Organisational culture and performance: Review
mid-year and annual financial statements, Monitor the financial management
policies, prescripts and procedures for compliance, Monitor compliance on
governance framework for conformity, Maintain and monitor the entity
databases ,BAS and Safety web in accordance with the relevant prescripts,
Monitor reviews pertaining to departmental losses and confirm clearance for
recording in the Loss Control Register with supporting documentation, Monitor
and confirm budget manager’s specimen signature and delegations.
Organisational Assets and Resources Verification: Update filing system with
accounting and financial information in line with relevant prescripts, Comply to
internal control measures pertaining to source documents and strengthen the
risks in documents control and security of info, Prepare and/or review
information/details to be included in departmental reports as prescribed, Verify
87
information /details contained in departmental reports for correctness and
appropriateness, Assist in the implementation of financial norms and standards
and engage with stakeholders through the Financial Management information
and awareness sessions. Monitoring and Compliance: Monitor the
implementation and alignment of internal policies and procedures pertaining to
their application in business, Review the application of prescribed policy and
procedures for enhancement, Provide inputs into policy, prescripts, guidelines
and related control measures., Monitor the application and procedures
pertaining to systems, e.g., BAS, PERSAL and LOGIS and suggest remedial
solutions , Monitor the department’s contract management compliance against
prescribed regulations, Initiate benchmarking on internal control processes for
implementation into the broader business. Audit Coordination: Oversee the
coordination of the external audit of the department as well as the internal audit
pertaining to the review of the financial statements, Monitor and record
auditor’s requests for information, Monitor and record auditor’s communication
of audit findings as well as comments from management.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
88
ANNEXURE H
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office (Midrand)/ Constitutional Court: Braamfontein/ Judicial
Support Services: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Director: Human Resources, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand deliver applications to the Office
of the Chief Justice, Human Resource Management, 188, 14th Road,
Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685.
Eastern Cape/ Port Elizabeth/ Bisho/ Mthatha/ East London/Makhanda:
Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Postal Address: Private Bag
X13012, Cambridge 5206, East London. Applications can also be hand
delivered to 59 Western Avenue, Sanlam Park Building, 2nd Floor, Vincent
5242, East London.
Gauteng (Provincial Centre) /Land Claims Court (Randburg)/
Johannesburg High Court/ Pretoria High Court/ Labour and Labour
Appeals Court: Johannesburg: Quoting the relevant reference number,
direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X7, Johannesburg, 2000. Applications can also be hand delivered
to the 12th floor, Cnr Pritchard and Kruis Street, Johannesburg.
KwaZulu-Natal/ Durban/ Pietermaritzburg/Durban/Provincial Service
Centre: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X54314, Durban,
4001. Applications can also be hand delivered to 1st Floor Office No 118, CNR
Somtseu8 & Stalwart Simelane Streets, Durban, 4000.
Mpumalanga/ Middelburg/ Nelspruit: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head: Office of the Chief
Justice, Private Bag X 20051, Mbombela 1211. Applications can also be hand
delivered to, Mpumalanga Division of the High Court, Office of the Chief Justice
Provincial Service Centre, 311 Samora Machel Drive, Mbombela, 1200.
North West/ Mmabatho/ Mahikeng: Quoting the relevant reference number,
direct your application to: The OCJ Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X 2033, Mmabatho, 2735. Applications can also be hand delivered
to 22 Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mmabatho.
Western Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Postal Address: Private
Bag x 9020, Cape Town, 8000, or hand deliver applications to the Office of the
Chief Justice, Provincial Service Centre 30 Queen Victoria Street, cape Town.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. Each application form must
be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both pages by the applicant.
The application must indicate the correct job title, the office where the position
is advertised and the reference number as stated in the advert. Failure by the
applicant to fully complete, sign and initial the application form will lead to 40
disqualification of the application during the selection process. Applications on
the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you be in a possession
of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate
from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Dual citizenship holders
must provide the Police Clearance certificate from the country of origin (when
89
shortlisted all non - SA Citizens will be required to submit a copy of proof of
South African permanent residence). Applications that do not comply with the
above-mentioned requirements will not be considered. Suitable candidates will
be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, financial checks,
qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference checks and employment
verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will
be expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo
a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The Office the Chief
Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided
to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose
of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application
was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal
information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your application
null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the security and
confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment process
ERRATUM: Deputy Director: SAJEI with Ref No: 2025/123/OCJ published on
Public Service Vacancy Circular 20 dated 13 June 2025 is corrected to Deputy
Director: Research and Judicial Education. All references on the note that
states that “Candidate who previously applied are welcomed to reapply for the
post and It is a requirement for candidates to have the Public Service SMS Pre-
Entry certificate” should be ignored. Apologies for any inconvenience caused
OTHER POSTS
POST 21/114 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
2025/13124/OCJ
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package),
consisting of 70%/ 75% basic salary and 30%/25% flexible portion that may be
structured in terms of the applicable rules. The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Western Cape Provincial Service Centre, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate and a three (3) year National Diploma in Human Resource
Management and/or Development or Public Administration. A minimum of 5
years’ experience in Human Resource Management of which three years’ must
be at Junior Management/ Assistant Director level. A valid driver’s licence.
Technical Knowledge Competencies: Knowledge of Human Resource
Administration as well as Recruitment and Selection. Basic Conditions of
Employment Act and Employment Equity Act. Knowledge of PERSAL system.
Knowledge and understanding of the current Public Service Legislations,
Regulations and Policies. Knowledge of HR related standards, practices,
processes and procedures. Computer literacy in MS Office. Skills and
Competencies: Good communication skills (written and verbal); Accuracy and
attention to detail; Good administration and organizing skills; Good
interpersonal and public relations skills; Ability to work under pressure,
independently and self-motivated. Skills and Competencies: Skills and
Competencies: Good communication skills (written and verbal); Accuracy and
attention to detail; Good administration and organizing skills; Good
interpersonal and public relations skills; Ability to work under pressure,
independently and self-motivated.
DUTIES : Manage staff establishment of the Province; Manage HR Administration,
Training and HR Records in the Province; Manage the Performance
Management and Development System; Manage conditions of service and
benefits for all levels including OSD, MMS and SMS employees; Facilitate the
process of Employee Relations in the Province; Provide expert advisory
support to stakeholders; Responsible for the interpretation and implementation
90
of OSD policies and resolutions; Give advice on Procedural and technical
related matters in respect of Human Resource administration policies and
strategies to ensure compliance with applicable prescripts and regulations
governing Human Resource Management; Manage and administer the
implementation of the policy and procedure on incapacity leave and ill-health
retirement (PILIR) in the Department. Manage the performance of personnel
within the Human Resource section / unit; Manage compliance with and
provide guidance on the Disciplinary Code and Procedure in the Public Service
and Labour Relations.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mrs RM David Tel No: (021) 469 4048
HR Related Enquiries Mr K Mphela Tel No: (010) 493 2527
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/131/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 21/115 : CHIEF REGISTRAR REF NO: 2025/132/OCJ
SALARY : R586 956 – R1 386 972 per annum (MR6). The successful candidates will be
required to sign a performance agreement. Salary will be in accordance with
the Occupation Specific Dispensation (Resolution 1 of 2008). Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit a Service Certificate/s for determination
of their experience.
CENTRE : Northern Cape Division of The High Court: Kimberly
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate and LLB Degree or a four (4) year legal qualification as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of eight (8) years' post graduate legal
experience gained as a Registrar. Computer literacy, leadership and
managerial experience. A valid driver's license. An LLM Degree will serve as
an added advantage. Skills and competencies: Excellent communication skills
(verbal and written). Report writing skills. Numerical skills. Technical expertise.
Attention to detail. Planning, organizing and control. Problem solving and
decision-making skills. Customer service orientated. Interpersonal skills.
Conflict management skills. Strong work ethic and motivation. Self-
management. Professional appearance and conduct. All shortlisted candidates
shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment
method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical
and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Mentor and advice on the tracking and management of the progression of all
cases filed in court. Management of time and events necessary to move cases
from initiation through to disposition. Make inputs on amendments of court
rules and practice directives to improve efficiency at the Supreme Court of
Appeal. Implement directives issued by the President of the Supreme Court of
Appeal. Manage implementation of the Departmental Strategic Objectives
relating to the processing of cases within the Case Flow Management
Framework at the Supreme Court of Appeal. Compile training manuals and
provide training to registrars and registrars' clerks. Support staff. Stakeholder
Management, Human Resources Management, Court and Case Flow
Management/Quasi-Judicial functions. Manage Sen./ice Level Agreement,
Framework. Managing Strategic Court Efficiency Projects and Best Practices,
Information and Case/Court Documentation Management System. Safeguard
case records in accordance and prescripts. Achieve excellence in delivering
planned customer service outcomes (i.e. service levels and standards) for the
Department and monitoring the unit's service delivery in order to achieve the
service delivery targets. Ensure the highest level of customer care and
customer satisfaction. Manage all administration related functions. Supervise
and develop staff.
ENQUIRIES : Technical related Enquiries Adv. D Plaatjies Tel No: (053) 492 3522
HR related Enquiries: Ms L Wamers Tel No: (053) 492 3533
APPLICATIONS : applications can be sent via email at 2025/132/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 21/116 : OFFICE MANAGER (OFFICE OF THE JUDGE PRESIDENT) (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance
CENTRE : Land Court: Johannesburg Ref No: 2025/133/OCJ
Labour Appeals Court: Johannesburg Ref No: 2025/134/OCJ
91
Western Cape Division of The High Court: Cape Town Ref No: 2025/135/OCJ
North West Division of The High Court: Mmabatho Ref No: 2025/136/OCJ
Limpopo Division of The High Court: Polokwane Ref No: 2025/137/OCJ
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate and A three-year National Diploma in Office Management
or relevant equivalent qualification. A minimum of three years’ relevant
experience in an Office Administration environment at supervisory level. A valid
driver’s license. Skills & Competencies, Job Knowledge of office management
responsibilities, systems and procedures. Excellent Communication skills.
Proficiency in English (verbal and written). Interpretation of law. Legal
writing/drafting/legislative drafting skills. Knowledge of Electronic Information
Resource and online retrieval. Strong Leadership and Management
Capabilities. Ability to work long hours and under pressure. Computer literacy
(MS Word, PowerPoint, Excel and Outlook).
DUTIES : Manage office of the Judge President at the Division of the High Court. Support
the Judge President in communication with all Stakeholders. Management and
Supervision of Judges’ support staff and related matters. Manage logistical
arrangements for integrated meetings and operations. Oversee the
Administration and follow up on the Judge President instructions to ensure
prompt execution by relevant branches. Liaise with all Stakeholders in the
Department, Heads of Court, Senior Managers, Judges, National Office, Legal
Professional bodies and other Stakeholders, with regard to matters emanating
from the Office of the Judge President. Maintain a clear communication
channel to both Internal and External Stakeholders with the office of the Judge
President and that of the Deputy Judge President. Prepare presentations and
briefing notes for the Judge President and disseminate the necessary notices
and information to all branch heads, within the Division. Compile, analyse and
report progress on a monthly and quarterly basis, memoranda regarding all
matters related to the Judge President, including but not limited to the collation
of reserved judgements statistics for the Division. Ensure the appropriate
capacitation of the Office of the Judge President, in relation the handling of the
Acting Judge portfolio, including but not limited to the coordination of their
acting Judge appointment forms and certificates, handing down of their
Judgements, the hearing of their applications for leave to appeal, etc. Ensure
the correct applications of Regulations, Resolutions, Policies or any other Legal
source of directive related to the special fields.
ENQUIRIES : Land Court:
Technical enquiries: Ms N Mhlambi Tel No: (010) 493 6316
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
Labour Appeals Court:
Technical enquiries: Ms T Nzimande Tel No: (010) 494 9238
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
Western Cape:
Technical Related Enquiries: Mrs RM David Tel No: (021) 469 4048
HR Related Enquiries Mr SD Hlongwane Tel No: (021) 469 4028/4032
North West:
Technical related enquiries: Mr O Sebapatso Tel No: (018) 397 7064
HR related enquiries: Ms K Zwane Tel No: (018) 397 7114
Limpopo:
HR/Technical related enquiries: Ms R.F Mathobela Tel No: (015) 495 1758
APPLICATIONS : Land Court: Applications can be sent via email at
2025/133/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Labour Appeals Court: Applications can be sent via email at
2025/134/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Western Cape: Applications can be sent via email at
2025/135/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
North West: Applications can be sent via email at
2025/136/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Limpopo: Applications can be sent via email at
2025/137/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the Employment
Equity goals.
POST 21/117 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PMDS REF NO: 2025/138/OCJ
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
92
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and three (3) year’s National Diploma in Human Resource
management/ Development/ public management/ Public Administration or
relevant equivalent qualification at NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. A
valid Driver License and Willingness to travel. A minimum of three (3) years’
experience in the Performance management environment at a supervisory
level. Knowledge: Sound and in- depth knowledge of relevant prescripts and
application of Human Resource policies as well as understanding relevant
Legislations and Resolutions. Knowledge of Public Management Finance Act
(ACT). Knowledge of Occupation specific Dispensation (OSD) Legally
Qualified Occupation Dispensation categories. Interpretation of Grade
Progression. Knowledge of performance management policies and
procedures. PERSAL knowledge is essential. Skills and Competencies:
Decision making skills; Problem solving skills; Analytical skills; Communication
(verbal and written) skills; Presentation skills; ability to work in highly pressured
environment and driven by sense of urgency to meet deadlines and ability to
collaborate and work with team. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a
pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Implement performance management for employees on salary levels 1-12 and
for Senior Management Services (SMS). Develop a system for monitoring and
evaluation of performance management and development system and advice
on innovations. Manage and monitor probations, grade progression processes
and ensure timeous implementation. Plan and Coordinate PMDS moderation
processes. Conduct PMDS training or awareness sessions to all employees in
the department. Conduct quality assurance of Performance Agreements.
Quality assure and approve PMDS transactions on PERSAL and conduct
audits thereto. Coordinate non-monetary/service excellence awards. Provide
expect advisory and administrative support to line managers. Monitor, assess
PMDS risks, and implement mitigations proactively. Compile monthly reports.
Monitor and Provide support to the provinces pertaining to PMDS. Participate
in the induction programme as the PMDS stakeholder.
ENQUIRIES : Technical related enquiries: Ms K Tshoke Tel No: (010) 493 2529
HR related enquiries: Ms S Tshidino Tel No: (010) 493 2500/ 8774
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/138/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 21/118 : LAW RESEARCHER REF NO: 2025/139/OCJ
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance
CENTRE : Western Cape Division of The High Court: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. LLB degree or four year recognized legal qualification. A
minimum of three (3) years legal research experience. Sound knowledge of
domestic and international legal databases. A valid driver’s license will be an
added advantage. An LLM will be an added advantage. Skills and
Competencies: Excellent research and analytical skills; Report writing and
editing skills; Excellent communication skills (written and verbal);
Understanding of the Constitution and relevant legislation; Computer literacy
(MS Word, Outlook and Internet); Ability to access and utilize computer
research programmes (Westlaw, LexisNexis, Jutastat); Planning and
organizing; Ability to integrate knowledge from diverse sources; Accuracy and
attention to detail; Interpersonal skills; Problems solving skills; Ability to work
under pressure; Ability to work independently. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements.
DUTIES : Perform all legal duties for the Judges to enable them to prepare judgments.
Research and retrieve all material from all sources in both hard copy and
electronic format on legal issues, as requested by Judges. Read all the relevant
material and analyse it thoroughly. Discuss all possible variations on a legal
point with colleagues and/or the Judge. Prepare a comprehensive
memorandum on the outcome of the research. Proof read all judgments,
articles, speeches and conference papers. Verify all references and footnotes
in all judgments and legal articles against the original text for correctness.
Correct documents with the help of track changes to allow for the
acceptance/rejection of the proposed changes. Drafting of speeches,
93
conference notes and legal articles. Monitoring and bringing to the attention of
Judges of the court recent developments in case law and jurisprudence.
Provide support to court personnel with research related queries as assigned.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mrs RM David Tel No: (021) 469 4048
HR Related Enquiries; M Baker Tel No: (021) 469 4032
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/139/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 21/119 : LAW RESEARCHER REF NO: 2025/140/OCJ
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Division of The High Court, Makhanda
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. LLB degree or four year recognized legal qualification. A
minimum of three (3) years legal research experience. Sound knowledge of
domestic and international legal databases. A valid driver’s license will be an
added advantage. An LLM will be an added advantage. Skills and
Competencies: Excellent research and analytical skills; Report writing and
editing skills; Excellent communication skills (written and verbal);
Understanding of the Constitution and relevant legislation; Computer literacy
(MS Word, Outlook and Internet); Ability to access and utilize computer
research programmes (Westlaw, LexisNexis, Jutastat); Planning and
organizing; Ability to integrate knowledge from diverse sources; Accuracy and
attention to detail; Interpersonal skills; Problems solving skills; Ability to work
under pressure; Ability to work independently. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements.
DUTIES : Perform all legal duties for the Judges to enable them to prepare judgments.
Research and retrieve all material from all sources in both hard copy and
electronic format on legal issues, as requested by Judges. Read all the relevant
material and analyse it thoroughly. Discuss all possible variations on a legal
point with colleagues and/or the judge. Prepare a comprehensive
memorandum on the outcome of the research. Proof read all judgments,
articles, speeches and conference papers. Verify all references and footnotes
in all judgments and legal articles against the original text for correctness.
Correct documents with the help of track changes to allow for the
acceptance/rejection of the proposed changes. Drafting of speeches,
conference notes and legal articles. Monitoring and bringing to the attention of
Judges of the court recent developments in case law and jurisprudence.
Provide support to court personnel with research related queries as assigned.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms L Frazer Tel No: (046) 622 5758
HR Related Enquiries: Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/140/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 21/120 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: 2025/141/OCJ
SALARY : R397 116 – R467 790 per annum (Level 08). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Cape Town, Western Cape
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 and three years (03) National Diploma in Public Administration /
Administrative Management / Public Management/ equivalent qualification at
(NQF level 6). A minimum of two (2) years’ experience in administration field
and valid driver’s license. Knowledge of Risk Management, Security, Facility
and OHS will serve as added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements.
DUTIES : Provide support to the senior managers with daily clerical tasks. Keep up
breast with the leave administration for the office. Provide support with the
compilation of monthly, quarterly reports and annual corporate calendar.
Prepare meeting agenda and attendance register Collate monthly and
quarterly reports. Monitor meetings attendance by Governance Committees
members. Respond to the queries of stakeholders. Ensure general supervision
94
of employees. Allocate duties and perform quality control on the work delivered
by officials. Manage leave of staff. Advise and lead supervisees with regard to
all aspects of the work. Manage performance, conduct and discipline of
employees. Ensure that all employees are trained and developed to be able to
deliver work of the required standard efficiently and effectively. Develop,
implement and monitor work systems and processes to ensure efficient and
effective functioning. Formulate administration policies. Review office policies
and procedures Update existing protocols and office policies. Communication
skills (verbal & written), Problem solving skills, Good public relations skills,
Monitoring and analytical skills. Computer Literacy skills (MS Teams), Planning
and organizing skills, Report writing skills and Typing skills. Knowledge of
Understanding and experience of logistical arrangements required for the
effective functioning of governance structures, Knowledge of clerical duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting
statistics. Knowledge of the MS Office package, with experience in word
processing, Outlook, Power Point and Excel Knowledge of Office
Administration. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing Public Service and knowledge of Batho Pele principles. Manage and
Monitor financial system i.e. JYP, JDAS, BAS etc. Ensure compliance with the
PFMA and Financial standard. Verify S&T claims and Trip Authority for
correctness before submission for approval.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mrs RM David Tel No: (021) 469 4048
HR Related Enquiries: M Baker Tel No: (021) 469 4032
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/141/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 21/121 : JUDGES SECRETARY REF NO: 2025/142/OCJ
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Durban High Court, KwaZulu Natal
REQUIREMENTS : Grade twelve (12) certificate, a minimum of 20 modules completed towards an
LLB, BA or Bachelor Law Degree. A minimum of two (2) secretarial experience
a valid driver’s license, an LLB Degree, Bachelor Law Degree will serve as an
added advantage and results must accompany the application, shortlisted
candidates will be required to pass a typing test. Skills and Competencies:
Proficiency in English. Good communication skills (verbal and written).
Administration and organizational skills. Exceptional interpersonal skills, ability
to meet strict deadlines and to work under pressure, attention to details,
customer care service skills and excellent typing skills, confidentiality and time
management. Computer literacy (MS Word) and research capabilities All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Provide general secretarial/administrative duties to the Judge. Typing (or
format) of draft memorandum decision, opinions or judgement entries written
by or assigned by Judge. Provide general secretarial/administrative duties to
the Judge. Manage and type correspondence, judgements and orders for the
Judge (including Dictaphone typing). Arrange and diarize appointments,
meetings and official visits and make travel and accommodation arrangements.
Safeguarding of all case files and the endorsement of case files with an order
made by Judge. Update files and documents and provide copies of documents
to the Registrar. Perform digital recording of court proceedings on urgent court
cases after hours or on circuit court and ensure integrity of such recordings.
Store, keep and file court records safely. Accompany the Judge to the court.
Compile court statistics daily. Management of Judge’s vehicle, logbook and
driving thereof. Compile data and prepare reports and documents for assigned
Judges as necessary; including expense reports, continuing legal hours,
financial disclosure statements and case management. Arrange refreshments
for the Judge and his or her visitors and attend to their needs. Management of
Judge’s library and updating of documentation. Execute legal research as
directed by the Judge and comply with departmental prescripts, policies,
procedures and guidelines.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms K Marais Tel No: (031) 492 5562
HR Enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493 1723
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/142/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
95
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 21/122 : REGISTRAR REF NO: 2025/143/OCJ
SALARY : R324 579 – R1 111 323 per annum (MR3-MR5). Salary will be in accordance
with the Occupation Specific Dispensation (Resolution 1 of 2008). Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit a Service Certificate/s for determination
of their experience. The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Division of The High Court, Makhanda
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate and an LLB Degree or a four (4) year legal qualification.
Driver’s license. (MR3 - LLB Degree or equivalent plus a minimum of 2 years
post qualification experience in legal profession. MR4 - LLB Degree or
equivalent plus a minimum of 8 years post qualification experience in legal
profession. MR5 - LLB Degree or equivalent plus a minimum of 14 years post
qualification experience in legal profession). Skills and Competencies:
Excellent communication skills (verbal and written), Computer literacy,
Numerical skills, Attention to detail, Planning, organizing and decision-making
skills, Customer service orientated, Interpersonal skills, Conflict management,
strong work ethics, professionalism, ability to work under pressure and meeting
of deadlines, result driven, honesty/trustworthy and Observance of
confidentiality. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Co-ordination of Case Flow Management support process to the Judiciary.
Manage the issuing of all processes. Initiating Court proceedings. Co-ordinate
interpreting services, appeals and reviews. Authenticate signatures of Legal
Practitioners, Notaries and Sworn Translators. Supervision and management
of staff. Ensure annotation of relevant publications, codes, acts and rules.
Attend to and execute requests from the Judiciary in connection with cases and
case-related matters. Exercise control over the management and safekeeping
of case records and the record room. Deal with the files in terms of the relevant
codes and legislation. Execute Quasi-judicial indicators such as Taxation of the
Bill of Costs and Warrants of Execution. Collate statistical data for reporting
purposes and prepare court performance reports.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms L Frazer Tel No: (046) 622 5758
HR Related Enquiries: Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/143/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 21/123 : REGISTRAR’S CLERK REF NO: 2025/147/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Mpumalanga Division of High Court, Middelburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate, no experience is required. A three-year relevant
qualification (National Diploma at NQF level 6) with 360 credits as recognized
by SAQA will be an added advantage. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of
working procedures in terms of the working environment, Knowledge of registry
processes and practice, Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in
terms of the working environment, Knowledge and understanding of legislative
frameworks governing the Public Service, Knowledge of Filling system, Mail
procedure manual, Promotion of access to information Act and National
archives. Computer Literacy skills (Microsoft Office), Communication skills,
Numeracy, Interpersonal skills, Problem solving and analysis skills, Time
management skills, Administrative skills. Ability to work under pressure and
solve problems. Numerical skills. Attention to detail and Customer service skills
orientated All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Rendering effective and efficient case flow management support service to the
Court. Attend to all stakeholders’ enquiries and correspondences. Ensure
proper filing and safekeeping of all court records. Proper Administration of all
appeal and petition processes. Ensuring proper receipt, processing,
96
Administration and filing of all appeals and applicants for Leave to appeal.
Perform general administrative duties
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms. JM Shongwe Tel No: (013) 758 0000
HR Related Enquiries: Mr. SJ Zwane/Mr. V Maeko Tel No: (013) 758 0000
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/147/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 21/124 : REGISTRAR’S CLERK REF NO: 2025/148/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Western Cape Provincial Service Centre, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate, no experience is required. A three-year relevant
qualification (National Diploma at NQF level 6) with 360 credits as recognized
by SAQA will be an added advantage. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of
working procedures in terms of the working environment, Knowledge of registry
processes and practice, Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in
terms of the working environment, Knowledge and understanding of legislative
frameworks governing the Public Service, Knowledge of Filling system, Mail
procedure manual, Promotion of access to information Act and National
archives. Computer Literacy skills (Microsoft Office), Communication skills,
Numeracy, Interpersonal skills, Problem solving and analysis skills, Time
management skills, Administrative skills. Ability to work under pressure and
solve problems. Numerical skills. Attention to detail and Customer service skills
orientated All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Rendering effective and efficient case flow management support service to the
Court. Attend to all stakeholders’ enquiries and correspondences. Ensure
proper filing and safekeeping of all court records. Proper Administration of all
appeal and petition processes. Ensuring proper receipt, processing,
Administration and filing of all appeals and applicants for Leave to appeal.
Perform general administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Enquiries: Ms N Chwethiso Tel No: (021) 480 2637
Human Resources Enquiries: Ms M Baker/ Mr SD Hlonwane Tel No: (021) 469
4000
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/148/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 21/125 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS AND
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH SAFETY REF NO: 2025/149/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. No experience is required. National
Diploma/Bachelor Degree in Environmental Health, Safety Management or
equivalent qualification at NQF level 6 will be an added advantage.
Communication skills (written and verbal). Knowledge of Public Services
Legislation, Prescripts and Regulations. Occupational Health and Safety,
Labour Relations Act; Employment Equity Act; Basic conditions of Employment
Act. Ability to work under pressure and willingness to travel. Skills and
Competencies: Communication skills (verbal and written), Ability to network;
Influence and impact, Planning and organization skills, Computer Literacy (MS
Office), Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Render clerical support services within the Sub-directorate Employee Health
and Wellness (EHW) Provide support in the coordination of EHW programs
within OCJ; Provide support in Emergency Evacuation Drills within the Sub
directorate; Provide support for the preparations of the EHW internal and
external statutory reports; Provide support in facilitating training for officials
serving as OHS representatives; Administer effective EHW administration
services within the directorate; Develop and maintain the departmental
database/records; Organize meetings of the committees; Provide secretarial
support service to EHW meetings; Maintain all EHW related records
97
(memorandums, reports etc.) and all submission in EHW register; Keep
statistics and update the register for EHW.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms K Maloba Tel No: (010) 493 8774
HR Related Enquiries: Ms S Tshidino Tel No: (010) 493 2500/2533
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/149/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 21/126 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: DCRS REF NO: 2025/150/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gqeberha High Court, Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate. No experience is required. A three-year relevant
qualification (National Diploma at NQF level 6) with 360 credits as recognized
by SAQA will be an added advantage. Exposure in Court Related function will
be an added advantage. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy (MS
Office). Good communication (verbal and written) Good interpersonal skills
Good problem-solving skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Prepare court before court proceedings to test and operate recording
equipment. Perform digital recording of court proceedings and ensure the
integrity of such documents. Provide administrative support in circuit courts.
Collecting statistics. Provide administrative support in general on court
performance and case flow management. Provide any other administrative
support in performance duties in HR, Finance and Supply Chain as required
by the Judiciary, Court Manager and Supervisor. Accuracy and attention to
detail. Ability to work under pressure. Customer service. Document
management and operational knowledge of operating a DCRS/CRT machine.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms L Frazer Tel No: (046) 622 5758
HR Related Enquiries: Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/150/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
98
ANNEXURE I
DEPARTMENT OF SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Small Business Development is an equal opportunity & affirmative action employer. It
is the DSBD’s intention to promote representativity (race, gender, youth & disability). The candidature of
persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by email to the relevant email and by quoting
the relevant reference number provided on the subject line. Acceptable formats
for submission of documents are limited to MS Word, PDF.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025 at 16h00. Applications received after the closing date will not be
considered.
NOTE : Applications must quote the relevant reference number and consist of: A fully
completed and signed Z83 form and a recent comprehensive CV. Submission
of copies of qualifications, Identity document, and any other relevant
documents will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. All non-SA citizens will
be required to submit proof of permanent residence in South Africa when
shortlisted. Personnel suitability checks will be done during the selection
process. Applicants could be required to provide consent for access to their
social media accounts. All shortlisted candidates for SMS and/or MMS (MMS
optional) posts will be subjected to (1) a technical exercise, (2) a generic
managerial competency assessment. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within 1 month of
the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Department of Small Business Development is committed to the
pursuit of diversity and redress. Candidates whose appointment will promote
representivity in terms of race, disability, youth & gender will receive preference
(as per the DSBD EE Plan). The successful candidate will be required to sign
a performance agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as
completing a financial interest’s declaration form within one month of
appointment and annually thereafter. The Department reserves the rights not
to fill or withdraw any advertised post. Note: a new application for employment
(Z83) form is applicable from 01 January 2021. The new form can be
downloaded online at http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp
OTHER POSTS
POST 21/127 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND ECONOMETRICS REF
NO: DD: EA&E (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Postgraduate qualification (NQF 8) in Economics / Econometrics / Statistics /
Business Administration or equivalent/related as recognised by SAQA.
Master’s degree (NQF 9) in Economics / Econometrics / Statistics / Business
Administration will be considered an added advantage. 5 years technical /
functional specialist experience in Economic Research / Reporting / M&E for
Economic Impact / Assessment on Policy Formulation environment. Training in
MS Office packages, Project Management and Valid drivers’ licence. Have
proven competencies: Communication (verbal and written), Analysis of
Mathematical / Statistical / Econometric Models and Data Techniques, Conflict
Management, Customer Service Orientation, Problem solving, Stakeholder
engagement, Report writing, Coordination and facilitation and Attention to
detail.
DUTIES : Conduct Economic Analysis and Research inclusive of but not limited to in-
depth analysis of economic trends and indicators, including GDP growth,
inflation, unemployment, and other macroeconomic variables, utilising
econometric models to forecast economic performance and assess the
potential impacts of government policies on the national economy, Providing
inputs to policy briefs, economic reports, and position papers on various
macroeconomic issues etc. Design and implement complex econometric
models to predict economic behaviour and evaluate policy scenarios,
collaborate with other departments to refine economic models based on real-
world economic performance. Provide economic insights to support
government policy development in areas such as fiscal policy, trade,
investment, and employment. Liaise with external stakeholders, including
government departments, the private sector, research institutions, and
99
international organizations to gather insights and share findings on economic
matters. Communicate with stakeholders, clients, management & colleagues:
Written, Verbal and formal presentations / workshops / information sessions
etc.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries for all advertised posts should be directed to the recruitment office
on Tel No: (012) 394-5286/43097
NOTE : The Department of Small Business Development is committed to the pursuit of
diversity and redress. Candidates whose appointment will promote
representivity in terms of race, disability, youth & gender will receive preference
(as per the DSBD EE Plan). Candidates must submit applications to
recruitment8@dsbd.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying i.ee. REF
NO: DD: EA&E
POST 21/128 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING REF NO: DD: SP
SALARY : R896 436 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : B. Degree (NQF7) in Economics / Public Administration / Public Management
/ Development Studies / Social Sciences / Business Administration or
equivalent / related as recognised by SAQA. 3 years relevant experience in
Strategic Planning environment at a supervisory / management (ASD) level.
Knowledge of strategy planning process and knowledge of planning tools and
systems applicable to the public sector. Training in Computer Literacy (MS
Office Packages). Valid driver’s licence will be considered an added
advantage. Have proven competencies: Communication Good communication
(verbal and written) skills, Planning and Project Management facilitation skills,
Client orientation and customer focus, Honest and integrity, Interpersonal,
Project Management and Analytical skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate strategic and operations planning processes inclusive of but not
limited to: Coordination and facilitation of the Small Business Development
Portfolio Strategic Planning sessions, Coordination of submission of inputs into
the Small Business Development Portfolio’s strategic and annual performance
plans, facilitate review and approval process of strategic plan reports etc.
Coordinate and facilitate Operational Planning sessions for the Department
and Branches, Coordinate the development and implementation of the
Department’s service delivery improvement plan and Coordinate assessment
of the Service Delivery Environment and Organisational Functionality.
Communicate with stakeholders, clients, management & colleagues: Follow-
up with internal and external stakeholders on correspondence, Coordinate
responses to and from stakeholders, Coordinate awareness programmes on
the implementation of the Strategic Planning and Reporting Framework and
SDIP etc.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries for all advertised posts should be directed to the recruitment office
on Tel No: (012) 394-5286/43097
NOTE : The Department of Small Business Development is committed to the pursuit of
diversity and redress. Candidates whose appointment will promote
representivity in terms of race, disability, youth & gender will receive preference
(as per the DSBD EE Plan). Candidates must submit applications to
recruitment4@dsbd.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying i.ee. REF
NO: DD: SP
POST 21/129 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SERVICE DELIVERY IMPROVEMENT REF NO:
ASD: SDI
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree (NQF 7) in Economics / Public Administration / Public
Management / Business Administration / Development Studies / Social
Sciences or related / equivalent as recognised by SAQA. Postgraduate in
Economics / Public Administration / Public Management/ Development Studies
/ Social Sciences / Business Administration and Valid driver’s licence will be
considered an added advantage. Minimum of 3 years’ experience in Service
Delivery Improvement / Monitoring and Evaluation / Planning environment /
Executive Administrative function with experience in handling Departmental
content. Knowledge of strategy planning process and knowledge of planning
100
tools and systems applicable to the public sector. Understanding of Service
Delivery Improvement Plans and Knowledge of DSBD service delivery related
policies and strategies. Training in Computer Literacy (MS Office Packages)
and Project Management. Have proven competencies: Communication (Verbal
and Written), Analytical and Problem solving, Facilitation skills, Stakeholder
Management, Planning and organising skills and Project Management.
DUTIES : Provide Service Delivery Improvement support services inclusive of but not
limited to: Providing technical support and guidance on service delivery
performance and customer service improvement programs, ensuring that
service standards are upheld and continuously enhanced, developing,
maintaining and/or facilitating the successful implementation of DSBD service
delivery improvement plan, monitoring and assessing the implementation of
service delivery improvements and report on progress against set objectives.
Assist in the development of productivity measurement frameworks and
implement strategies to measure and improve performance in service delivery.
Coordinate the development and implementation of the Service Delivery Model
(SDM) and the Service Delivery Improvement Plan (SDIP) for the department
and contribute to the development of new service delivery models and
improvement strategies. Provide guidance in respect of the development of
policies, strategies, and frameworks to support the implementation of the
Service Delivery Model (SDM) and the Service Delivery Improvement Plan
(SDIP). Collaborate with internal and external stakeholders to create a
supportive policy environment for service delivery initiatives and share best
practices for service improvement and participate in national forums on service
delivery and innovations. Communicate with stakeholders, clients,
management & colleagues: Written, Verbal and formal presentations /
workshops / information sessions.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries for all advertised posts should be directed to the recruitment office
on Tel No: (012) 394-5286/43097
NOTE : The Department of Small Business Development is committed to the pursuit of
diversity and redress. Candidates whose appointment will promote
representivity in terms of race, disability, youth & gender will receive preference
(as per the DSBD EE Plan). Candidates must submit applications to
recruitment5@dsbd.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying i.ee. REF
NO: ASD: SDI
101
ANNEXURE J
DEPARTMENT OF TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of
positions with a candidate whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in the department’s Employment Equity plan. Whites, Coloured,
Indians, youth and Persons with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be posted to: Human Resource Management, Department of
Traditional Affairs, Private Bag X22, Arcadia, 0083 or Hand deliver to: 509
Pretorius Street, Arcadia, 2nd Floor Pencardia 1 Building or email @
DTARecruit202507@cogta.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Director: Human Resource Management
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
NOTE : The successful candidate’s appointment will be subject to a security clearance
process and the verification of educational qualification certificates.
Applications must quote the relevant reference number and must be completed
on the New Z83 form obtainable from any Public Service department and
signed when submitted. From 1 January 2021 should an application be
received using the incorrect application for employment (Z83), the application
will not be considered. Only shortlisted candidates will submit relevant
documents. Applicants should submit CV and Z83 only. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified copies a day before the interview date.
Persons with a disability are encouraged to apply. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and to provide proof of such evaluation only
when shortlisted. Incomplete applications or applications received after the
closing date will not be considered. It is important to note that it is the
applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments in
support of the application are submitted by the due date. Due to the large
number of responses anticipated, correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three months of the
closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill the advertised
position.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 21/130 : SECRETARY: COMMISSION ON KHOI-SAN MATTERS REF NO: 2025/07
Contract post linked to term of Office of The Commission on Khoi-San Matters
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), an all-inclusive remuneration package,
(70% of package) and a flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the
applicable guidelines
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree or equivalent qualification (NQF level 7) in Social or Management
Science. Certificate for entry into the Senior Management Services (SMS)
submitted prior to appointment. Five(5) years experience at middle/senior
management services. A valid drivers license. Core competencies: Strategic
capacity and leadership, people management and empowerment, programme
and project management, change management and Financial Management.
Technical competencies: Office management, Monitoring and evaluation,
Fluency in Afrikaans (verbal and written) Process competencies: Knowledge
management. Service delivery innovation, Problem solving and analysis, Client
orientation, customer focus and communication.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Manage
proceedings and corporate support services for the Commission on Khoi-San
leaders; Manage Secretariat support and Programmes for the Commission on
Khoi-San matters. Manage finances of the Commission on Khoi-San matters,
Manage human resources within the Secretariat of the Commission on Khoi-
San matters; Manage research support to the Commission on Khoi-San
matters. Manage and supervision of staff in the Secretariat. The incumbent will
be required to travel extensively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms RS Mogaladi Tel No: (012) 334 0549
102
ANNEXURE K
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
NOTE : Other related documentation such as copies of qualifications, identity
document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany the application when
applying for a post as such documentation must only be produced by
shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA circular 19
of 2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or occupational
registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be completed as
these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or disclose all
required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No late
applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
pertaining to Senior Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical and competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained
from the National School of government is required prior to the appointment.
Candidates will be required to complete a financial disclosure form and
undergo security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must
provide a police clearance certificate from country of origin (only when
shortlisted). The Department of Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity
employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of
the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment
Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of the Department will be
taken into consideration. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within three (3) months of this
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful.
Faxed applications will not be considered. The department reserves the right
not to fill these positions. Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged
to apply and preference will be given to the EE Targets.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 21/131 : CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER REF NO: VOCMA 01
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein (Vaal-Orange Catchment Management Agency)
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant B-Degree NQF level 7 qualification and registration as CA (SA). A
minimum of five (5) years of experience at middle / senior managerial level in
Finance. Extensive knowledge of financial management, PFMA and Generally
Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP) and some knowledge of local
government sector, public service act and regulations. Behavioural
Competencies required: Strategic Capability and Leadership Programme and
Project Management. Attention to detail. Financial Management. Change
Management. Knowledge Management. Service Delivery Innovation (SDI).
Problem solving and Analysis. People Management and Empowerment. Client
Orientation and Customer Focus. Good Communication. Accountability and
Ethical Conduct.
DUTIES : Strategic oversight on financial management within CMA: Assume overall
responsibility for general financial and management accounting activities,
budget (preparation and compliance), revenue collection, supply chain
management and asset management functions, payroll, and banking, ensuring
compliance to relevant legislation, prescripts, policies and agreements.
Establish, implement and enhance accounting and internal control systems,
policies and procedures in compliance with GRAP, PFMA, Treasury
Regulations and other legislation. Develop and implement a cost management
strategy through effective accounting controls and financial management
techniques. Ensure compliance with policies and provide guidance, assess
103
risks and financial viability of existing & new Policies, Projects and all customer
agreements. Direct the financial strategy of the organisation to ensure
availability of adequate financial resources. Provide strategic financial advice
to executive management and the Board. Ensure timely and accurate financial
reporting to all internal and external governance structures. Set perimeters for
cash flow management and operations of the finance personnel. Ensure
financial data integrity in terms of timeliness, accuracy and reliability. Oversee
and provide assistance during the annual audit; respond to audit findings and
implement recommendations as required. Stay abreast of new trends in the
field of accounting, financial management, budgeting etc. Provide strategic
direction in the provision of other Corporate Support Services within the CMA:
Provide strategic direction in the implementation of HR policies, prescripts and
strategies. Ensure provision of IT services and that associated risks are
effectively mitigated. Ensure provision of office support services including
facilities management. Departmental/Staff Management: Establish appropriate
service and staffing levels; monitor and evaluate the efficiency and
effectiveness of service delivery methods and procedures and allocate
resources accordingly to meet departmental strategies priorities. Responsible
for the related sections of the APP, Shareholders Compact, and Annual Report.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. C Greve Tel No: (012) 336 8402
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : The Vaal-Orange Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water Resource
Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the National
Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy for South
Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and Sanitation.
Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms and
conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service Act,
though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 21/132 : BOARD COMPANY SECRETARY REF NO: VOCMA 02
SALARY : R1 216 824 (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein (Vaal-Orange Catchment Management Agency)
REQUIREMENTS : A BCom Law (NQF 7) or / LLB degree. Admitted attorney. Registration as a
Chartered Secretary with the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and
Administrators will be advantageous. A minimum of five (5) years Middle /
Senior Managerial experience. Experience as a Company Secretary.
Understanding of SA Law in general, administrative law, labour law, water law,
public entities, governance and ethics. Behavioural Competencies required:
Analytical, negotiation, liaison, consultation, advanced communication,
information monitoring, compliance and risk management, ethical, strategic
thinking, quality oriented, lateral thinking and attention to detail. May be
subjected to extended working hours.
DUTIES : Committee Work: Ensure submission of annual schedule of meetings for Board
and Committee meetings. Ensure convening of meetings, preparation of
agenda and taking minutes of Board and its Committees. Address
correspondence and communication relating to the Board. Ensure collation
and maintaining information and documentation relating to Board and
Committee meetings. Ensure the secure recording and archiving of minutes of
meetings. Guide the writing of interim and annual reports for the Board. Ensure
that decisions taken by the Board are communicated to relevant stakeholders
to be implemented fully. Guidance and Advice: Advise and guide the Board by
promoting insight and clarity on its appointment, constitution, and the related
legal, ethical, good governance, accounting and financial implications of the
proposed/implemented policies and decisions. Assist the Chairperson and
Chief Executive in matters relating to the DWS and the Board. Provide advice
with regard to the specific roles and responsibilities of the Board as a whole,
and those of the individual role- players: Chairperson, CEO, and Board
members. Provide advice with regard to the appointment and constitution of
the required sub-committees (e.g., audit, risk, or other), with regard to ensuring
corporate governance. Manage the risk by ensuring and monitoring
compliance of the implementation of policies and procedures relating to NWA,
PFMA and other related legislation and guidelines. Provide regulatory,
compliance and relevant advice to the Governing Board on usage of water
resources to relevant national, provincial and local government departments,
WUAs, farmers. Corporate Governance: Formulate and implement corporate
104
governance strategies for the organisation. Ensure the organisation remains
aware of any changing requirements in connection with corporate governance
and responds accordingly. Provide advice on corporate governance working
practices arising out of changes in legislation affecting the organisation.
Support the organisation with the research, development and implementation
of policies required for corporate governance. Liaison as necessary with
external organisations and staff at all levels on a wide variety of governance-
related matters. Legal Support: Take overall responsibility of legal services in
the organisation. Deal with contractual and related matters. Provide internal
legal advisory services to the Board as and when required. Facilitate and
ensure compliance to relevant statutes. Provide continuous updates on
changes to legislation to the organisation and the Board. Set up systems that
ensure the Board complies with all applicable codes, as well as its legal and
statutory obligations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. C Greve Tel No: (012) 336 8402
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : The Vaal-Orange Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water Resource
Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the National
Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy for South
Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and Sanitation.
Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms and
conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service Act,
though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
OTHER POSTS
POST 21/133 : RISK OFFICER (ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT) REF NO: VOCMA 03
Re-advertised, applicants who previously applied need not to re-apply
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein (Vaal-Orange Catchment Management Agency)
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant tertiary qualification in Risk Management/Auditing/Economics at
NQF7. Registration as a Certified Risk Management practitioner/professional,
Certified Internal Auditor Certified Fraud Examiner. A minimum of 4 years’
experience obtained in Risk Management practices at a middle managerial
level. Knowledge and experience of risk mitigation processes, knowledge of
the broader risks management guidelines and standards. Knowledge and
understanding on Human Resource Management Legislation, policies,
practices and procedures, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury
Regulations and guidelines, Public Service Anti-corruption Strategy and anti-
corruption and fraud prevention measures, Knowledge of equal opportunities
and Affirmative action guidelines and laws, Knowledge of administrative and
clerical procedures and systems, Principles and practice of financial
accounting, Framework for managing performance information, business
strategy transaction and alignment, Problem solving and Analysis, People and
Diversity Management, Client Orientation and Customer Focus,
Communication, Accountability and Ethical Conduct.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)
framework: Participate in the development of the risk management framework,
implement the risk management plan, support the establishment of the risk
management philosophy and culture in the organization, advocate and
promote risk management in the agency (awareness activities). Supervise,
facilitate and advise on the risk management assessment process: facilitate
Enterprise-Wide Risk Assessments, conduct risk identification, analysis and
evaluation with strategic partners within the Vaal-Orange Catchment
Management Agency. Initiate the updating of VOCMA’s risk register for
conformity of objectives to improve effectiveness of the entity. Engage
stakeholders within business units with the sole purpose of extracting
information to integrate within the draft risk reports as per identified risks for
mitigation. Develop proposals to determine the scope of allocated internal
audits. Monitor and review the identified risk response activities: continuous
monitoring of the risk environment. Monitoring the implementation of the
progress of activities to address risks as agreed on revising risk response
activities. Conduct Risk Education, Training and benchmarks; Initiate
awareness sessions on risks and provide training to educate internal clients on
ERM principles. Conduct workshops on risks mitigation processes for
105
implementation within VOCMA. Conduct research and benchmark on best
practices with recognised institutions pertaining to risk assessment
methodologies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. C Greve Tel No: (012) 336 8402
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : The Vaal-Orange Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water Resource
Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the National
Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy for South
Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and Sanitation.
Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms and
conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service Act,
though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 21/134 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER (MR5) REF NO: VOCMA 04
Re-advertised, applicants who previously applied need not to re-apply
SALARY : R464 634 per annum (MR5)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein (Vaal-Orange Catchment Management Agency)
REQUIREMENTS : LLB (or equivalent qualification). At least eight (8) years of appropriate post
qualification legal experience. Competencies required: Knowledge and
experience of policy development and implementation, public sector legal
processes, legislation and contracts, PAIA, PAJA, the Constitution and all the
relevant legislation. Knowledge of Treasury regulations. Ability to negotiate and
draft contracts and international instruments. Ability to interpret specific
environmental legislation, issues affecting the environment and general
environmental law is required. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act.
Legal research and interpretation. Analytical skills. Report-writing. Programme
and project management. Computer literacy. Good planning and decision-
making skills. Language proficiency. Confidentially. Excellent communication
skills (written and verbal). Strategic capability and leadership skills.
Accountability and Ethical Conduct.
DUTIES : Provide legal support to ensure compliance with relevant legislation. Develop
standard operating procedures. Advise on and draft legal opinions and
documents to support criminal prosecutions for contraventions of the National
Water Act. Draft legal documents, memoranda, reports and submissions. Draft,
vet and review contracts on behalf of the entity. Advise, negotiate and draft
multilateral and bilateral agreements. Handle litigation matters and appeals on
behalf of the CMA. Render legal support on all litigation matters. Develop
interventions where challenges are experienced. Monitor the implementation
of the Promotion of Access to Information Act, 2000 and the Promotion of
Administrative Justice Act, 2000 in the CMA. Handle PAIA and PAJA matters
on behalf of the CMA.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. C Greve Tel No: (012) 336 8402
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : The Vaal-Orange Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water Resource
Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the National
Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy for South
Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and Sanitation.
Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms and
conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service Act,
though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 21/135 : COMMITTEE SECRETARIAT REF NO: VOCMA 05
Re-advertised, applicants who previously applied need not to re-apply
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein (Vaal-Orange Catchment Management Agency)
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant 3-year tertiary qualification in Administration/Secretarial. Minimum
Three (3) years’ experience in Committee work, administration and secretarial.
Competencies required: knowledge of Governance, Policies and Procedures.
Knowledge of administrative and clerical procedures and systems. Board
Procedures. Schedule 4 of National Water Act. Ethics and integrity. Writing
skills. Detail and focused. High Degree of confidentiality. Computer skills and
good Communication skills. Coping with work pressure.
DUTIES : Record and prepare minutes of the Governing Board and its committees
106
including (ad-hoc committees) and stakeholders’ sessions. Prepare and have
agendas delivered for the Governing Board and its committees including (ad-
hoc committees). Arrange official transport and accommodation for Board and
Committee members through Supply Chain Management section. Update
outstanding Board Resolutions Register by collating information from various
divisions. Follow up with Executives/Managers on all reports due to be
submitted to committees including ad-hoc committees. Prepare and distribute
to all Executives/Managers schedule of meeting dates with the closing dates
for reports for the financial year. Prepare schedules of the Governing Board
and its Committee meetings dates of every financial year. Arrange venues and
logistics for the meetings of the Governing Board and its committees. Arrange
appointments for the Chairperson and Governing Board members regarding
official business of the VOCMA. Keep filing systems for verification to internal
and external Auditors upon request. Provide documents for verification to
internal and external Auditors upon request. Keep the pecuniary interests
registered in respect of the Governing Board members. Have declaration of
interest forms completed by the Governing Board members and all employees
attending the meetings of the Governing Board and its committees. Provide
administrative support regarding the completion of claims by the Governing
Board members in respect of attendance of the Governing Board and
committee meeting and events. Perform other committee work on request such
as for MANCO, REMCO, etc.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. C Greve Tel No: (012) 336 8402
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : The Vaal-Orange Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water Resource
Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the National
Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy for South
Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and Sanitation.
Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms and
conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service Act,
though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 21/136 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT (OFFICE OF THE CFO) REF NO: VOCMA 06
Re-advertised, applicants who previously applied need not to re-apply
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein (Vaal-Orange Catchment Management Agency)
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification at NQF level 6 (National Diploma or Degree).
Experience in high-level administrative support. Experience in providing
executive-level support in a fast-paced environment. Strong organizational and
communication skills. Ability to manage multiple priorities and stakeholders.
Excellent organizational and time management skills. Strong written and verbal
communication abilities. Proficiency in Microsoft Office and other
administrative tools.
DUTIES : Provide a secretary/receptionist support service to the CFO, which includes the
following: act as the primary point of contact for the CFO, handling inquiries
and correspondence, manage the CFO’s calendar, schedule meetings, and
coordinate appointments with internal and external stakeholders, assist in
preparing reports, presentations, and documents for meetings, ensuring
accuracy and professionalism. Provide a clerical support service to the CFO
which entails the following: Liaise with travel agencies to make travel
arrangements, process travel and subsistence claims of the office, process all
invoices that emanate from the activities of the work of the CFO, record minutes
of meetings of the CFO where required, draft routine correspondence and
reports, filing of documents for the CFO and the office, administer matters like
the leave registers and telephone accounts, handle the procurement of
standard items like stationery.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. C Greve Tel No: (012) 336 8402
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : The Vaal-Orange Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water Resource
Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the National
Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy for South
Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and Sanitation.
Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms and
107
conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service Act,
though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
108
ANNEXURE L
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY
The Free State Provincial Government is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer and to this end
has developed an Employment Equity Plan pursuant to the Employment Equity Act. Preference for the
filling of these posts will be guided by the Departmental Equity Plan and targets correlating to the posts.
APPLICATIONS : Applications, quoting the relevant reference, should be forwarded as follows:
The Deputy Director: Human Resources Management, Free State Provincial
Treasury, Private Bag X20537, Bloemfontein, 9300. Attention: Ms. N Mokotso,
Fidel Castro Building Tel No: (051) 405 5323 or applications that are hand
delivered must be brought to the foyer of Fidel Castro Building where they must
be placed in the appropriately marked box at: Security, Ground Floor, Fidel
Castro Building, Cnr. Markgraaff and Miriam Makeba Streets, Bloemfontein.
Applications may also be e-mailed to recruitment@treasury.fs.gov.za.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. D L Motloung Tel No: (051)405 5323/3092
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
NOTE : Directions to applicants Applications must be submitted on form the new Z.83
form (Updated version that came into effect on 1 January 2021), obtainable
from any Public Service Department and must only be accompanied by a
detailed Curriculum Vitae (Subjects of relevant qualification(s) should be
mentioned in the CV). The Curriculum Vitae should be specific regarding
previous positions occupied and the start date and end date of the position(s)
should be indicated. Applicants are requested to complete the Z83 form
properly and in full. The department name, post title and reference number of
the advertised post should be stated on the Z83. Only short-listed candidates
will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other related
documents on, or before the day of the interview following an invitation from
the Department to attend an interview, and such qualification(s) and other
related document(s) should be in line with the requirements of the
advertisement. For SMS posts in the Public Service, no appointment shall be
effected without the recommended candidate producing a Certificate of
completion for the Nyukela Programme (SMS Pre-Entry Programme) offered
by the National School of Government which can be accessed via the following
link: https://www.thensg.gov.za. Candidates will also be subjected to a
competency assessment, a practical test/exercise as well as an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment. Applications received after the closing date and
those that do not comply with these instructions will not be considered. The
onus is on the applicants to ensure that their applications are posted, hand
delivered or e-mailed timeously. Candidates who possess foreign qualifications
and/or short courses certificates must take it upon themselves to have their
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
Applicants are respectfully informed that if no notification of appointment is
received within 4 months of the closing date, they must accept that their
applications were unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to
personnel suitability checks (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial assets check, qualification verification and reference checks). The
Department reserves the right not to make appointments on the advertised
post(s). Employment Equity targets: African males and/or African females and
Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 21/137 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO: FSPT 014/25
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum (Level 14), an all-inclusive salary package, (This all-
inclusive flexible remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the
Government’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund and a
flexible portion that may be structured according to specific rules)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A degree or equivalent qualification (NQF level 7) in Social Sciences/ Public
Administration or equivalent qualification. A minimum of five (5) years relevant
experience at senior managerial level. Knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA),
Treasury Regulations and Public Service Act and Regulations. Must possess
the following skills: Strategic capability and leadership, honesty, financial
109
management, people management, client orientation and customer focus,
analytical, report writing, innovation, planning, organizational, presentation,
computer, communication, problem solving, policy analysis, risk management
and internal audit, management practices, project management and conflict
resolution.
DUTIES : Establish a skilled competent and responsive workforce for the department by
ensuring strategic leadership regarding human resources management,
human resources development and employee health and wellness,
organizational development, security, ethics and fraud prevention,
communication, special programmes, legal and labour relations matters.
Ensure that the department adheres to all relevant legislation. Ensure
adherence to PFMA. Enhance internal and external communication. Ensure
implementation of efficient and effective diversity management and
transformation systems. Coordinate the implementation of the minimum
information security standards.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A M J Hattingh Tel No: (051) 405 3066 (Office hours only)
NOTE : African females and Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 21/138 : DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: FSPT 015/25
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), an all-inclusive salary package, (This all-
inclusive flexible remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the
Government’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund and a
flexible portion that may be structured according to specific rules
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A degree or equivalent qualification (NQF level 7) in Accounting/Auditing with
Auditing as a passed major subject. A minimum of six (6) years to ten (10)
years’ experience in the auditing field, of which five (5) years must have been
at middle/senior managerial level. Extensive knowledge of auditing principles
and their application. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
Treasury Regulations and Public Service Act and Regulations. Must possess
the following skills: Strategic capability and leadership, honesty and integrity,
financial management, people management and empowerment, client
orientation and customer focus, analytical, interpersonal, leadership and
computer literacy.
DUTIES : Manage the Internal Audit Directorate’s resources. Review the adequacy and
efficiency of internal controls designed to reduce identified risks to acceptable
levels. Provide strategic support to the department in the development of cost-
effective internal controls. Ensure compliance with internal auditing standards
and best practices within the internal audit environment. Provide administrative
support to the Audit Committee. Risk management within the Department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A M J Hattingh Tel No: (051)405 3066 (Office hours only)
OTHER POST
POST 21/139 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: FSPT 016/25
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), an all-inclusive salary package, (This all-
inclusive flexible remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the
Government’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund and a
flexible portion that may be structured according to specific rules)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A degree or equivalent qualification (NQF level 7) in Accounting/Auditing/Risk
Management. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience, of which three (3) years
must have been at junior management/Assistant Director level. Knowledge of
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations and Public
Service Act and Regulations. Must possess the following skills: Strategic
capability and leadership, honesty and integrity, financial management, people
management and empowerment, analytical, interpersonal, leadership and
computer literacy.
DUTIES : Develop risk management strategies, systems, policies and annual risk
management plans. Manage, implement, review and improve the risk
management framework. Facilitate the institutionalization of risk management.
Manage the departmental Risk Management Sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A M J Hattingh Tel No: (051) 405 3066 (office hours only)
110
ANNEXURE M
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be hand delivered or posted to the relevant district offices
and Head office where the post is advertised OR apply online at
https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za/. Please see the address below:
Head Office [HO]: Physical Address: 26th Loveday Street, Kuyasa House,
Johannesburg. Postal address: P.O. Box 7710, Johannesburg 2001 Enquiries:
check enquiries on the advert.
Districts Ekurhuleni North (EN): Physical Address: 78 Howard Avenue,
Munpen Building, Benoni. Postal Address: Private Bag X059, Benoni, 1500
Enquiries: Ms Emily Mochela Tel No: (011) 746-8190.
District Ekurhuleni South [ES]: Physical Address: Infinity Office Park, 2
Robin Close, Meyersdal Private Bag X8001, Alberton, 1456 Enquiries: Ms Ellen
Raphoto Tel No: (011) 389-6077.
Gauteng East District [GE]: Physical Address Corner 7th Street and 5th
Avenue, 5th Floor Telkom Towers, Postal Address, Springs: 1560 Enquiries: Mr
Mpho Leotlela Tel No: (011) 736-0717.
District Johannesburg North [JN]: Physical Address: Corner Biccard &
Jorrison street FNB Building Braamfontein, Postal Address: Private Bag X01,
Braamfontein, 2017 Enquiries: Ms Nelisiwe Mashazi Tel No: (011) 694 9378.
District Sedibeng East [SE]: Physical Address: Corner Joubert & Kruger
Street SL & M Building Vereeniging. Postal Address: Private Bag X05,
Vereeniging, 1930 Enquiries: Ms. Nomathemba Xawuka Tel No: (016) 440
1717.
District Sedibeng West [SW]: Physical Address: Sebokeng College 6 Samuel
Street; Zone 18, Sebokeng Postal Address: Private Bag X067, Vanderbijlpark,
1900 Enquiries: Ms Bertha Mlotshwa Tel No: (016) 594 9193.
District Tshwane South [TS]: Physical Address: President Towers Building,
265 Pretorius Street PRETORIA Postal Address: Private Bag X198 Pretoria,
0001 Enquiries: Mr Thabiso Mphosi Tel No: (012) 401 6434.
District Tshwane West [TW]: Physical Address: Klipgat Road Old Hebron
College Postal Address: Private Bag X38, Rosslyn, 0200 Enquiries: Ms Priscilla
Ravele Tel No: (012) 725 1451.
District Gauteng North [GN]: Physical Address: Yorkcor Park Building, 86
Watermeyer Street, Val De Grace, Pretoria Postal Address: Private Bag X75
Pretoria, 0001 Enquiries: Ms. Matlhodi Moloto Tel No: (012) 846 3641.
District Gauteng West [GW]: Physical Address: Corner Boshoff & Human
Street, Krugersdorp Postal Address: Private Bag X2020, Krugersdorp 1740
Enquiries: Ms Louisa Dhlamini Tel No: (011) 660-4581.
District Johannesburg Central [JC]: Physical Address: Corner Morola &
Chris Hani Road Soweto College, Pimville Postal Address: P.O. Box 900064,
Bertsham, 2013. Enquiries: Mr Linda Mabutho Tel No: (011) 983-2231.
District Johannesburg East [JE]: Physical Address: Sandown High School,
1 North Road, Sandown, Postal Address: Private Bag X9910, Sandton, 2146.
Enquiries: Ms Elizabeth Moloko: Tel No: (011) 666-9109.
District Johannesburg South [JS]: Physical Address: 100 Northern Parkway,
Crownwood Ormonde, Johannesburg. Postal Address: Private Bag X13,
Lenasia, 1820 Enquiries: Ms Lola Malimangovha Tel No: (011) 247-5957.
District Johannesburg West [JW]: Physical Address: 20 Goldman Street,
Florida Postal Address: P.O. Box 1995, Florida,1709. Enquiries: Mr Lizwe Jafta
Tel No: (011) 831 5433, Sandton, 2146. Enquiries: Ms Elizabeth Moloko Tel No:
(011) 666-9109.
District Tshwane North [TN]: Physical Address: Wonderboom Junction 11
Lavender Street, Pretoria. Postal Address: Private Bag X945, Pretoria, 0001
Enquiries Ms Aluciah Malegopo Tel No: (012) 543 4313.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
NOTE : It is our intention to promote (Race, Gender and Disability) in the Public Service
through the filling of these posts. Applications must be submitted on form Z83,
obtainable from any public service department or on internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za /documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application
for employment form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled on the
first page by the applicant. Failure to fully complete, initial and sign this form
may lead to disqualification of the application during the selection process. A
111
fully completed, initialled, and signed new form Z83 (Section A, B, C and D
compulsory and (Section E, F and G ignore if CV attached). A Z83 form and a
detailed CV must be attached on hand delivered, posted and online
applications. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents on the application but must submit the Z83 with a
detailed Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified documents on or before the day of the interview following
communication from Human Resources. It is the applicant’s responsibility to
have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA). Suitable candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability
checks (positive Identity, qualification, fraud listing, employment reference, and
criminal record verification as well as the required level of security clearance
process). Where applicable, candidate will be subjected to a skills/ knowledge
or computer assessment test. Following the interview process, recommended
candidate (s) to attend the generic MMS competency assessment. The
logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. Short-listed
candidates will be subjected to a security clearance. Department reserves the
right not to make appointment(s) to the advertised post(s). Women and people
with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference will be given to the
underrepresented groups as per the GDE Employment Equity Targets.
Applications received after the closing date will not be considered. The specific
reference number of the post must be quoted. Due to the large number of
applications we envisage to receive, applications will not be acknowledged. If
you do not receive any response within 3 months, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. No faxed, emailed and late applications will be
considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 21/140 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE CAPEX AND SCHEDULED
MAINTENANCE PROJECTS AND PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION REF NO:
REFS/022753
Directorate: Infrastructure Delivery Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three-year National Diploma/Degree qualification (NQF Level
6/7) in Financial Management/ Project Management/Public Administration/
Public Management/ Administrative Management plus a minimum of 3 years
relevant working experience in providing financial management and
administration/ project support within the infrastructure environment at a
supervisory level and or at a post equivalent to salary level 7/8. Knowledge of
Public Service Act and Regulations, Infrastructure projects/policies and
National and Provincial Frameworks. Excellent communication (verbal &
written) and interpersonal skills. Ability to work under pressure, Computer
literacy in MS Excel, MS Word, MS Access and MS Office, Planning,
Organising, Analytical, Report writing and Problem-Solving Skills. A valid South
Africa driver’s license.
DUTIES : Prepare the Procurement Strategy, Infrastructure Programme Management
Plan [IPMP] and updating of the plan. Prepare the infrastructure budget and
Final Project List. Prepare the Packages/Individual Project Briefs; presenting
these to the Implementing Agent [IA] – referred to as Project Execution Plan
v1. Manage the preparation of Packages/Individual Project Briefs for projects
that are not allocated to an Implementing Agent [IA]. Participate in the
procurement of Professional Service Providers and Contractors, including the
preparation and approval of Bid Specifications and evaluations of tenders as
member of the Supply Chain Management Committees in Public Works and/or
relevant SCM Committees of Alternative IAs and Provincial Department of
Education. Manage adherence to Occupational Health and Safety and Quality
Assurance standards. Provide support in the development and analyses of
projects reports. Collect and compile information regarding projects that needs
to be investigated. Liaise and monitor projects reporting from internal and
external stakeholders. Analyze infrastructure projects and compile quarterly,
annually and monthly reports for internal and external stakeholders. Implement
and maintain tracking system for all projects. Plan, implement and monitor the
Expanded Public Works Programme Projects. Identify and priorities the need
for the EPWP service in schools. Develop a project plan and implementation
112
plans of the EPWP. Collect and analyze information received from the schools
on EPWP projects. Monitor the credible non-financial information in the
infrastructure reporting model to ensure compliance. Identify the gap in the
non-financial information in the infrastructure reporting model and notify the
responsible managers/project managers to update the information. Monitor the
credibility of information extracted from IRM for preparation of Infrastructure
End of Year Evaluation, U-AMP and IPMP. Supervise staff. Co-ordinate the
performance agreements/ assessments for the directorate and manage staff
leave.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Lerato Machaka Tel No: (011) 843 6532
POST 21/141 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: PMD (X3 POSTS)
Sub-Directorate: Transversal HR Services
Unit: HRD and Performance Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Gauteng North District Ref No: REFS/022775
Johannesburg West District Ref No: REFS/022778
Johannesburg Central District Ref No: REFS/022784
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3-year National Diploma/ Degree (NQF Level 6/7)
in Human Resource Management/ Human Resource Development or
Personnel Management or Public Management majoring in HR plus a minimum
of 2 years’ experience in Performance Management and Development
Systems with PERSAL Certificate. Knowledge of relevant Human Resource
Prescripts (Public Service Act and Regulations, Educators Act, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, Skills Development Act, Skills Levy Act, Labour
Relations Act, HIV/AIDS Workplace Policy, IQMS/QMS and PMDS Policies).
Knowledge and understanding of Human Resource Management Practices
and Procedures. Knowledge of PERSAL System and knowledge of Public
Finance Management Act. Computer literacy, Communication Skills, Project
Management, Interpersonal relations, Presentation skills, Financial
Management skills, Report writing and minutes taking. Valid Driver’s license.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate the submission and implementation of Performance Management
and Development System. Coordinate the submission of Performance
Agreements for SL 1-12 employees by March 31st. Coordinate the submission
and receipt of Performance Reviews for SL 1-12 employees by July 31st.
Coordinate the submission and receipt of Performance Assessments SL 1-12.
employees by September 30th. Coordinate the collection and analysis of
educator scores (QMS) statistical data in line with educator performance
cycles. Perform quality assurance on the PMDS documentation from the
Business Units and receipt of probationary reports to determine first time
applicants on the system. Capturing and processing of Performance
Agreements, Reviews and Assessments on PERSAL of school and office
district officials. Coordinate the correct implementation and capturing of PMDS
outcomes on PERSAL for all employees. Facilitate the capturing of
Performance Agreements, Reviews and assessments on PERSAL for district
and school-based officials (PS staff). Facilitate the collection and capturing of
Performance Agreements, Reviews, Assessments on PERSAL for office-
based officials (EMS-PMDS) and quality assure submitted documents vs. the
approved job description. Facilitate the capturing of QMS Performance
Agreements, Reviews and Assessments on PERSAL for school-based
educators. Compile of pre-payment exception submission to request post-
payment exception reports from Head Office to verify accuracy and eligibility of
incentives paid to employees. Collate the provision of Annual Incentives and
Pay Progression on PERSAL for qualifying district officials and school-based
officials. Facilitate payment of performance bonuses for employees in the
District and Institutions (PS staff). Ensure Maintenance of Performance
Management and Development Systems database/ records. Ensure the
storage of PMDS reports and statistics for the district and schools. Ensure
maintenance of PMDS electronic and manual records on PERSAL. Coordinate
the provision of PERSAL report to alleviate audit queries. Conduct refresher
training for PMDS (PS) to newly appointed and promoted employees in
Districts and schools. Provide administrative support services for the Business
Unit. Draft and submit training plans to relevant stakeholders and PMD unit.
Coordinate the collection and submission of Performance Assessment for
educators scores (QMS) statistical data in line with educator performance
cycles for the deliberation of the Moderating Committee. Perform data
113
capturing and effective record keeping in the Unit. Provide secretarial and
administrative support for meetings and workshops as part of PMDS training
and implementation, interpreting and explaining the PMDS policies and
procedures to the district and schools’ personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Matlhodi Moloto Tel No: (012) 846 3641 (GN)
Mr Linda Mabutho Tel No: (011) 983 2231 (JC)
Mr Lizwe Jafta at 064 929 9493 (JW)
POST 21/142 : SENIOR COMMUNICATION OFFICER: COMMUNICATION MANAGEMENT
REF NO: REFS/022754
Directorate: External Communication and Media Liaison
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3-year National Diploma/ Degree (NQF Level 6/7)
in Communication/ Public Relations/ Digital & Social Media Marketing plus a
minimum of 2 years’ experience in a communication environment. Knowledge
of social dynamics of communities, relevant education acts and policies.
Knowledge of GPG and GDE policies and procedures. Knowledge of the Public
Service Act and Regulations. Strong understanding of social media and
campaigns. Public Finance Management Act. Basic graphic design skills and
knowledge. Public procurement procedures and financial related policies.
Computer literacy. Good verbal and written communication. Planning and
organisation. Good inter-personal relations.
DUTIES : Facilitate the development and execution of communication tactics aimed at
marketing/promoting and maintaining good image for the department,
especially on social media. Develop weekly, monthly, quarterly and annual
social media plans, in conjunction with the Deputy Director: Social Media and
Campaigns. Develop and consolidate strong social media ties and outreach to
public and various stakeholders. Develop coherent messaging for social media
campaigns. Ensure GDE social media platforms adhere to all legal
requirements (copyrights etc). Assist in the development of social media
products. Participate in departmental communication planning and task teams.
Manage and brief interns. Supervise, monitor and report the impact of GDE
social media campaigns. Assist with graphic design services for social media.
Provide support and sustain good relations with internal and external
stakeholders. Accompany the Executive Authority/ Departmental Head on
request to events and public meetings. Ensure efficient creation/ distribution
and control of virtual communication (social media) within the department.
Provide exceptional services in circulating virtual communication. Develop
content for print, broadcast and virtual media. Facilitate the verification that the
Executive Authority/ Departmental Head’s accurate stories and picture to be
posted on social media and blogs. Participate in the development of a
communication policy, procedures and guidelines for key departmental
programmes and social media campaigns. Analyse each weekly/ monthly
social media publicity reports and compare it with previous weeks/ months.
Monitor social media platforms daily and advise the Management within the
Directorate and GDE. Provide advice and guidance in respect of all
Communication services, policies, systems and development. Facilitate and
coordinate training of departmental officials in terms of social media
procedures (social media policy) in dealing with departmental content. Ensure
that profiles are updated and available on all Social Media platforms
(Facebook/twitter/ blogs). Make necessary corrections on factual inaccuracies
in the social media, including the usage of the correct corporate identity
imagery and documents. Supervise and develop Staff. Conduct performance
reviews and ensure that these are submitted to the Performance Management
and Development unit timeously. Provide continuous coaching and mentoring
of subordinates. Assist in the provisioning of stationery and office supplies.
Provide regular verbal and written feedback aligned to quarterly performance
assessments to personnel on performance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Khuitsemang Diseko at 072 394 2090
POST 21/143 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: RISK AND COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT REF
NO: REFS/022756
Chief Directorate: Risk and Compliance management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
114
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3-year National Diploma/ Degree in Public
Administration /Public Management /Administrative Management/ Office
Administration or Management/Management Assistant/ Office Management
and Technology plus a minimum of 2 years relevant experience. Knowledge
and understanding of effective administration and document management.
Understanding of procedures, regulations, current legislations peculiar to
education and public service. Excellent communication (verbal and written) and
interpersonal skills necessary. Computer literacy in MS Excel, MS Word, MS
Access and MS Office. Ability to work under pressure. Conflict management
and Project Management skills are necessary. Sound verbal and written
communication skills required. Self- disciplined and able to work under
pressure with minimum supervision. Valid Driver’s license.
DUTIES : To assist with facilitation of key administrative functions within the Office of the
Chief Director. To ensure that the daily administrative processes within the
office is managed effectively and timeously. Assist with the collation of reports.
Provide secretarial services to the Office of the Chief Director in terms of
scheduling meetings, drafting agendas and minute taking. Liaise with internal
and external stakeholders and prepare responses to queries. Perform other
duties assigned or delegated by immediate supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Karabo Ngoetjane Tel No: (011) 355 0261
POST 21/144 : CHIEF PERSONNEL OFFICER: POLICY AND PROCEDURE INCAPACITY
LEAVE FOR ILL-HEALTH RETIREMENT (PILIR) REF NO: REFS/022755
Directorate: Human Resource Transversal Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3-year National Diploma/Degree in Human
Resource Management/ Human Resource Development or Personnel
Management or Public Management majoring in HR plus a minimum of 2 years
relevant experience in the HR working environment. Knowledge in BAS,
PERSAL and SAP / Public procurement procedures and financial related
policies. Treasury Regulations. Public Service Act 1994 and employment of
educators Act of 1998 Regulations. Good interpersonal skills and
communication skills (verbal and written). Customer Services. Conflict and
Problem Solving. Ability to work independently. Excellent Communication
Skills. Computer literacy in MS Excel, MS Word, MS Access, and MS Outlook.
A valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : To ensure effective and efficient management of PILIR. Oversee and
management of employees under his/her supervision (PMDS, Leave, conflict,
resources; etc.) and their day-to-day functions. Quality check PILIR
applications, assessment outcome reports, outcome letters; etc. Generate all
PILIR reports on weekly; monthly; quarterly and annually. Analyse assessment
reports from the Health Risk Manager (HRM) and all other PILIR reports. Strict
adherence to time frames. Update and monitor the tracking grid. Reconcile and
analyse data. Attend to all PILIR queries. Organize and facilitate PILIR
trainings/workshops/information sharing sessions. Compile all PILIR
submissions and memos. Attend all PILIR stakeholder meetings. Provide
support and visit to the districts, schools, clients, and Head Office. Approve
accurately captured PILIR (Policy on Incapacity Leave for Ill Health Retirement)
transactions on PERSAL. Analyse departmental PILIR, guidelines, strategy,
and Human Resource procedure manuals to identify gaps. Participate in the
development of methodologies, policies, procedures manual consistent with
best practices relating to PILIR. Ensure implementation of approved PILIR
policy, guidelines, strategy and HR procedure manuals in the Department.
Create awareness on the PILIR processes and Procedures. By conducting
workshops; interpreting and explaining the PILIR policies and procedures to
the Departmental personnel. Ensure effective Management of Record system
for safekeeping. Analyse Health Risk Manager’ outcome reports to ensure
correct implementation of PILIR outcomes on PERSAL. Monitor the
implementation of PILIR outcomes on PERSAL. Ensure that the Long/
Temporary Incapacity leave by employees are subjected to Independent
Medical Assessment in determining whether to reduce /continue Incapacity
leave. Ensure provision of monthly, quarterly and annual reports on the
implementation of PILIR. Quality Assure and ensure timeous submission/
retrieval of PILLIR (Policy on Incapacity Leave for Ill Health Retirement)
115
Applications. Ensure efficiency on Client and Stakeholders on PILLIR (Policy
on Incapacity Leave for Ill Health Retirement) matters. Ensure that applications
are processed within the agreed timelines as per the Service Level Agreement
(SLA). Ensure submission of accurate PILIR reports by Health Risk Manager.
Ensure the signing of PILLIR Outcome Letters from the Health Risk Manager.
Draft and compile submissions for captured applications to the Health Risk
Manager for assessment. Ensure that payment of services rendered by the
Health Risk Manager is processed within 30 working days, Quality assure
Applications, Independent Medical Assessments) Supervision and
Development of staff System (performance development plans, job
descriptions and performance agreement).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Enos Netshithuthuni Tel No: (011) 843 6556
POST 21/145 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: OFFICE OF THE DDG REF NO:
REFS/022757
Office of the DDG: Education Support
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3-year National Diploma/ Degree in Public
Administration /Public Management /Administrative Management/ Office
Administration or Management/Management Assistant/ Office Management
and Technology plus a minimum of 2 years relevant experience. Knowledge
and understanding of effective administration and document management.
Understanding of procedures, regulations, current legislations peculiar to
education and public service. Excellent communication (verbal and written) and
interpersonal skills necessary. Computer literacy in MS Excel, MS Word, MS
Access and MS Office. Ability to work under pressure. Conflict management
and Project Management skills are necessary. Sound verbal and written
communication skills required. Self- disciplined and able to work under
pressure with minimum supervision. Valid driver's license is a pre-requisite.
DUTIES : To assist with facilitation of key administrative functions within the Office of the
DDG. To ensure that the daily administrative process within the office is
managed effectively and timeously. Assist with the collation of reports. Provide
secretarial services to the Office of the DDG: Education Support in terms of
scheduling meetings, drafting agendas and minute taking. Liaise with internal
and external stakeholders and prepare responses to queries. Perform other
duties assigned or delegated by immediate supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Lerato Machaka Tel No: (011) 843 6532
POST 21/146 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: OFFICE OF THE DDG REF NO:
REFS/022759
Office of the DDG: Corporate Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3-year National Diploma/ Degree in Public
Administration /Public Management /Administrative Management/ Office
Administration or Management/Management Assistant/ Office Management
and Technology plus a minimum of 2 years relevant experience. Knowledge
and understanding of effective administration and document management.
Understanding of procedures, regulations, current legislations peculiar to
education and public service. Excellent communication (verbal and written) and
interpersonal skills necessary. Computer literacy in MS Excel, MS Word, MS
Access and MS Office. Ability to work under pressure. Conflict management
and Project Management skills are necessary. Sound verbal and written
communication skills required. Self- disciplined and able to work under
pressure with minimum supervision. Valid driver's license is a pre-requisite.
DUTIES : To assist with facilitation of key administrative functions within the Office of the
DDG. To ensure that the daily administrative process within the office is
managed effectively and timeously. Assist with the collation of reports. Provide
secretarial services to the Office of the DDG: Education Support in terms of
scheduling meetings, drafting agendas and minute taking. Liaise with internal
and external stakeholders and prepare responses to queries. Perform other
duties assigned or delegated by immediate supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Lerato Machaka Tel No: (011) 843 6532
116
POST 21/147 : CHIEF PERSONNEL OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE PROVISIONING (X6
POSTS)
Sub Directorate: Transversal Human Resource Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Tshwane North District Ref No: REFS/022795
Johannesburg North District Ref No: REFS/022880
Johannesburg East District Ref No: REFS/022879
Gauteng North District Ref No: REFS/022876
Tshwane West District Ref No: REFS/022875
Gauteng East District Ref No: REFS/022877
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three- year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Human
Resource Management/ Human Resource Development or Personnel
Management or Public Management majoring in HR plus minimum of 2 years’
experience in the Human Resource working environment. Knowledge of Public
Service Act and Regulations, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, HR
Prescripts, Resolutions and White Papers. Knowledge of National and
Provincial HR Policy Frameworks. Computer Literacy, Verbal and Written
Communication Skills, Project Management. Problem Solving, Presentation,
Facilitation and supervisory skills. A valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Implement post establishment for the district and schools. Receive and verify
post establishment for LSEN schools and ordinary schools. Receive and verify
post establishment for extraordinary posts. Distribute post establishments to all
stakeholders. Monitor the utilization of all posts as per allocated post
establishment and provide report. Identify vacant posts for the District Office
and schools. Update and maintain post establishment for the district and
schools. Coordinate the movement of staff for the district and schools. Prepare
and obtain approval for the placement of personnel i.e. additional and Funza
Lushaka. Prepare and obtain approval for the absorption of temporary staff.
Identify educators on access post and submit a list to heads. Facilitate and
issue placement letters for access educators. Coordinate the publication of
vacancy lists. Receive post establishment from Head Office. Distribute post
establishment to schools. Receive GDE79 to advertise vacant posts. Compile
a list of all vacant posts and forward to Head Office. Receive vacancy list from
Head office distribute. Coordinate response handling and recruitment and
selection for the district. Prepare and obtain approval to advertise and to fill the
identified vacant posts. Notify line managers of vacancies within their
respective units. Receive and verify GDE79 / HR1 to Head Office for
publication. Receive and distribute vacancy list within the district (including
schools). Facilitate the shortlisting process. Arrange interviews and provide
technical advice during interviews. Draft and obtain approval for the
appointment of the successful candidate. Provide administrative support
services for the Unit. File documentation in the office. Respond to enquiries
receives from internal and external stakeholders. Draft and submit monthly
reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Aluciah Malegopo Tel No: (012) 543 4313 (TN District)
Ms. Nellisiwe Mashazi Tel No: (011) 694 9321 (JN District)
Ms Elizabeth Moloko Tel No: (011) 666 9109(JE District)
Ms Matlhodi Moloto Tel No: (012) 846 3641 (GN District)
Ms Priscilla Ravele Tel No: (012) 725 1451 (TW District)
Mr Mpho Leotlela Tel No: (011) 736 0717 (GE District)
POST 21/148 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: CERTIFICATION REF NO: REFS/022758
Directorate: System Administration and Certification
Sub-directorate: Certification
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three- year National Diploma/Degree in Public
Administration/Public Management/Office Management/ Office
Administration/Administrative Management plus minimum of 2 years’
experience in providing administration / office support. Knowledge of the
National Senior Certificate (NSC) and the Senior Certificate amended
qualification requirements are a pre- requisite. Knowledge of
policies/regulations relating to certification processes. Computer literacy in the
mainframe and server-based system are essential. Good Communication
117
skills. Telephone etiquette. Ability to work well under pressure. A valid driver's
license is essential.
DUTIES : Provide supervisory support service in the processing of applications for
certificates, statement of results. Coordinate request and collection of
certificates, statement of results information from Integrated Examination
Computer System (IECS) and Certificates from UMALUSI, DBE and/or SITA.
Provides support in the help desk for certification relating to combinations,
reissue of lost and replacement of damaged certificates. Monitors the
verification process of all Grade 12 certificates. Verify processing of
applications for replacement/ re-issue of lost statement of results and
certificates. Monitor and report the printing of certificates by the accredited
SITA and Umalusi institutions. Implement directives of Umalusi and National
Policy regarding printing and issuing of certificates. Archival and dissemination
of examination results/ Umalusi policies, procedures and guidelines. Supports
the development of the departmental Integrated Examination Computerized
Systems (IECS) policies, procedures and guidelines. Supervision and
development of Staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Deon Tshabalala at 064 738 0588
POST 21/149 : SYSTEM DEVELOPER REF NO: REFS/022761 (X3 POSTS)
Directorate: IT Systems and Support Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3-year National Diploma/ Degree (NQF Level 6/7)
in Computer Science / Information Systems / ICT plus a minimum of 2years
relevant experience in software development field. Knowledge of RDBMS
(Relational Database Management Systems) with experience in SQL Server
and SQL Server Reporting Services, Strong understanding of Object-
Orientated Programming, Significant experience in C#, Significant experience
with JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS3 and Bootstrap3/4, An understanding of
MVC software architectural pattern and .Net Core(Web API and MVC Core),
SQL Stored Procedures, XML, JSON and Knowledge working with Web API
like Google Maps API is an advantage, Knowledge of DevOps and Microsoft
Azure environment will be highly advantageous; Server and back-end
development experience. Knowledge of various development platforms and
application support; knowledge of legislative framework within the Public
Sector; Good written communication, enthusiastic, passionate, and can identify
with the need to making a difference that will enable greater efficiency in the
delivery of Quality Education within the Department. A valid driver's license is
essential.
DUTIES : To develop application solutions as specified by the Information Systems,
encoding of system applications by converting work-flow information into
computer language, develop /design business intelligence dashboards,
perform system audits, testing of integrated application systems codes for
possible updates/improvements, integration of different platforms in application
development, performing system backups, system recovery and upgrades,
maintenance and bug resolution, help in maintaining development. and
productions environments, and maintain systems currently housed at the
department by performing tasks allocated to them and compile weekly reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Phindile Ngobeni Tel No: (011) 843-6740/46
POST 21/150 : ORGANISATION DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER REF NO: REFS/022763
(X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Organisation Development
Sub-Directorate: Organisational Design and Change Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3-year National Diploma/ Degree (NQF6/7) in
Management Services/Production or Operations Management or Human
Resource Management/Public Management plus 2 years’ experience In
Organisational Design, Business Process Re-engineering and Job evaluation.
Knowledge of Public Service Act and Regulations, Applicable Legislative
Prescripts, including DPSA Circulars and Directives, Organisational Design
Procedures and Principles as well as application of different work-study
techniques. Knowledge and the use of OrgPlus; PERSAL System and job
118
evaluation system will be an added advantage. Good Communication Skills
Interpersonal relations, Computer literacy, Problem Solving, Presentation
skills, Change Management, Facilitation skills and Report writing. A valid
driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Develop and maintain the departmental organisational structure and post
establishment. Provide information and identify defects and problems with
existing structure or lack of structures and establishment requirements.
Conduct assessment and investigations on efficiency and effectiveness of work
procedures, methods, systems and report on findings. Provide technical advice
and guidance on policies and procedures related to organisational design and
change management. Provide inputs to OD and Change Management Draft
policies and other frameworks. Coordinate the provision of advisory and liaison
service to the Department on organisational design and change management
matters. Provide administrative support to the Sub-Directorate on changes to
the organisational structure. Provides Organisational Design information
management services. Develop and maintain a reliable and accurate manual
and e-filing system for the Sub-Directorate (record management). Provide
technical support in the implementation, maintenance, monitoring and
evaluation of organisational design and change management project plan.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Emily Makau Tel No: (011) 843 6559
POST 21/151 : ORGANISATION DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER REF NO: REFS/022764
Directorate: Organisation Development
Sub-Directorate: Job Design and Business Process Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An recognized three-year National Diploma/ Degree (NQF Level 6/7)
qualification in Management Services/Production Management/ Operations
Management/Organisational and Work-study/ Industrial Engineering/ Industrial
Psychology plus a minimum of 2 years’ relevant experience in Organisation
Design, Job Design, Business Process Re-engineering and Job Evaluation.
Knowledge of Public Service Act and Regulations, Job evaluation prescripts
Business Process Management, evaluate system, IDEFO Modelling and Visio,
PERSAL and Job Description prescripts Good Verbal and Written
Communication, Time Management, Planning and Organising, Problem
Solving, Change Management, Consultation, Interpersonal skills, Presentation
skills and Computer Literacy. A valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Coordinate and facilitate development of job descriptions. Administer and
Coordinate job analysis and evaluation process. Map business process
management and develop Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) in the
Department. Coordinate Organisational Functional Assessment (OFA).
Provide administrative and logistical support to the Sub Directorate. Update
and maintain JE, JD, BPM Databases and filling system.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Fundzani Buys Tel No: (011) 843 6743
POST 21/152 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: SBA COORDINATION/ MODERATION REF NO:
REFS/022760 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Assessment Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3-year National Diploma/ Degree (NQF Level 6/7)
in Public Administration /Public Management /Administrative Management/
Office Administration or Management/Management Assistant/ Office
Management and Technology plus a minimum of 2 years’ experience working
in Administration, Financial Administration, Planning and Implementation of
provincial projects and Project Management. Must have worked in
Curriculum/Assessment related environment. Knowledge of Public Service Act
and Regulations, Financial Procedures, Treasury Regulations and Public
Finance Management Act. Knowledge of current technological developments
and future trends. Other relevant prescripts governing Public Service such as
Batho Pele principles. The incumbent must have High level of reliability; Hard
working; Resourceful; Self-motivated; Trustworthy and have Computer literacy
skills, communication skills, project management, interpersonal relations,
presentation, technical and interpersonal skills, people management, report
writing, good problem solving and analytical skills. Other: Willing to adapt work
119
schedule in accordance with office requirements. Applicant must be in a
possession of a valid South African driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide effective administrative support in the planning and initiation of School
Based Assessment (SBA) Coordination and Moderation projects. Render
relevant support during the compilation of budget, audit and financial functions.
Co-ordinate and maintain office and render logistical activities such as
facilitation of payments of moderators and service providers, ensure payment
of moderators, provide regular sub-directorate expenditure reports, requisition
of stationery, printing, deliveries and other requests. Compiling
correspondence, reports, presentations, and other written material for the
Moderation Sub-directorate (SD). Liaise with moderators and schools to
ensure that all Quality Assurance and Moderation projects are carried out
successfully. Liaise with districts to ensure that all registered candidates
resulted and SBA, PAT and Oral queries are appropriately recorded and
attended to. Keep an up-to-date record of all captured and resolved internal
assessment queries. Liaise with other directorates to ensure that quality
assurance projects become a success. Compile and disseminate minutes of
meetings, discussions, and workshops to relevant stakeholders. Arrange
venues for official visits, meetings, and other events. Provide secretariat
services to the Business Unit’s meetings. Liaise with internal and external
stakeholders. Provide effective records management services to the Business
Unit. Maintain records of all in-coming and out-going documents,
correspondences, and registers. Monitor the tracking of documents and
correspondences. Monitor the scanning and filing of documents and other
correspondences. Comply with policies, prescripts, and other processes and
procedures within the SBA Coordination and Moderation SD and Assessment
Management Directorate. Provide policy related advice to the stakeholders.
Supervise staff. Provide supervision to personnel in the Business Unit. Allocate
duties to subordinates, monitor and ensure quality of work. Compile the work
plan, performance development plans, job descriptions and performance
agreements of staff and ensure that they are assessed in line with the PMDS
policy. Capacitate and develop staff. Assess staff performance. Apply policy
and take necessary decisions guided by relevant regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. Ernest Ranape at 076 818 5502
POST 21/153 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: STANDARD SETTING AND QUALITY
PROMOTION REF NO: REFS/022762
Directorate: Assessment Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3-year National Diploma/ Degree (NQF Level 6/7)
in Public Administration /Public Management /Administrative Management/
Office Administration or Management/Management Assistant/ Office
Management and Technology plus a minimum of 2 years’ experience in
Administration, Financial Administration, Records Management, Assets
Management. Knowledge of Public Service Act and Regulations. Financial
Procedures, Treasury Regulations and other Financial and SCM Prescripts.
Other relevant Prescripts governing Public Service, Batho Pele principles.
Computer literacy, Communication, Project Management, Interpersonal
relations, Organisational skills Presentation, technical and interpersonal skills.
People management, report writing, drafting of submissions and memoranda,
good problem solving and analytical skills. A valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Provide effective administrative support to the Standard Setting and Quality
Promotions Unit. Tracking of Management Plan for Unit. Monitor assets in the
Business Unit. Co-ordinate procurement of goods and services. Render
assistance during compilation of the budgeting audit and financial functions.
Assist with logistical arrangements for different activities. Provide support
during the planning and co-ordination of projects. Prepare offers of
appointment for panel members of different projects. Co-ordinate the
development of administrative documentation for projects including attendance
registers, Codes of Conduct, Confidentiality Agreements and claim forms.
Maintain an electronic database of appointees for different projects ’coordinate
and maintain office and logistical activities such as subsistence and travel
claims, filing and scanning of documents, requisition of stationery, printing,
document binding, e-mail, deliveries and other requests. Compiling
correspondence, reports, presentations, and other written material for the
120
SSQP Unit. Liaise with Examinations Financial Administration Unit to ensure
that all payment queries are attended to. Keep an up-to-date record of projects
conducted. Compile and disseminate minutes of meetings, discussions, and
workshops to relevant stakeholders. Arrange appointments for official visits,
meetings, and other events. Provide secretariat services to the Business Unit’s
meetings. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders. Provide effective
records management services to the Business Unit. Maintain records of all
Files, correspondences, and Registers. Monitor the tracking of files and
correspondence. Monitor the uploading of documents onto the GDE website
as per Management Plan. Comply with policies, prescripts, and other
processes and procedures within the Business Unit. Keep abreast with new
policies and other regulatory requirements. Mentor and provide supervision to
Senior Administration Clerks and Interns in the Business Unit. Allocate and
ensure excellent quality of work. Train and develop staff. Assess performance
of subordinates. Apply discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Bongiwe Mangciphu Tel No: (010) 601 8030
POST 21/154 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: EAP/HIV/AIDS COORDINATOR
(X2 POSTS)
Sub-directorate: THRS
Section: Performance Management and Development
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Tshwane West District Ref No: REFS/022779
Sedibeng West District Ref No: REFS/022783
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3- year tertiary qualification in Social Work /
Psychology plus a minimum of 2 years’ relevant experience in EAP/HIV
environment. Knowledge of policies on EAP and HIV/AIDS and applicable
legislative frameworks within the public sector. Good interpersonal skills and
communication skills (verbal and written). Administrative analytical and
organizational Skills. Supervisory skills and Computer literacy. Ability to work
in a team and under pressure. A valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Coordinate and provide employee health and wellness services i.e. conduct
campaigns, organise interaction sessions provide first line counselling and
coordinate the EAP, etc. Plan, coordinate and facilitate implementation of EHW
framework as per Public Service strategic framework. Identify, report and
provide information on Employee Health and Wellness, HIV/AIDS. Implement
and monitor the Occupational Health and Safety programs in line with the
applicable act and safety policies and practices in the Department. Conduct
risk assessments to minimise and prevent occupational health and safety
dangers in the workplace. Identify reports and provide information on
Employee Health and Wellness, HIV/AIDS. Liaise with relevant
organisations/stakeholders on issues relating to Employee Health and
Wellness, HIV/AIDS as well as on issue of Occupational Health and Safety.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Priscilla Ravele Tel No: (012) 725 1451 (TW District)
Ms. Bertha Mlotshwa Tel No: (016) 594 9207 (SW District)
POST 21/155 : SENIOR PROVISIONING ADMIN OFFICER REF NO: REFS/022801
Sub Directorate: Finance & Administration
Section: Office Service Pool
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Ekurhuleni North District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF level 6/7) in
Supply Chain Management/Logistics Management plus a minimum of 2 years’
relevant experience in Asset Management/Supply Chain Management.
Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations,
Departmental Asset policy, Public Service Act and Regulation. Knowledge of
Traversal systems (SRM, SAP and BAS), Financial & Procurement
procedures. Standard Chart of Accounts (SCOA. Excellent communication
skills, verbal and written. Presentation, Computer literacy, Interpersonal
relations, report writing, time management, analytical. Supervisory and
financial management skills. Applicant must be in a possession of a South
African valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Coordinate procurement of goods and services for the district, Serve as a link
between end-user, buyer and suppliers. Compile the annual procurement plan
for the district. Check the correctness of all RLS01’s and compare them to the
121
Procurement Demand Plan derived from the Budget breakdown and on Asset
Demand Plan. Minimize discrepancy on the requisitions. Ensure monitoring
and compliance regarding SCM, Procurement Processes are followed to the
latter, correct material number is created, allocated and captured. Verify the
correctness and accuracy of the shopping carts according to the RLS01’s and
release on SRM. Manage Supply Chain Management processes and
deviations. Ensure the correctness of the specifications to compile a request
for quotations from suppliers are registered on the vendor database with valid
CSD (central supplier database) documentations. Confirm that Buyer do not
exceed our District Budget. Guarantee that End-users receive Goods and
services that meet their specifications. Follow up on all shopping carts until
purchase orders are created and deliveries are made on time, implementation
of SCM processes and procedures to prevent deviations. Handle and
coordinate the expediting of internal and external queries with regards to
Procurement. Ensure the delivery of Goods and services according to
approved purchase orders. Ensure that the good, received vouchers (GRV) are
completed, signed-off and submitted for payments. Supervise staff Allocate
and ensure quality of work. Assess staff performance. Manage staff leave.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Emily Mochela Tel No: (011) 746 8190 (EN District)
POST 21/156 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER (X4 POSTS)
Sub-Directorate: Finance and Administration
Unit: Office Service Pool
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Tshwane South District Ref No: REFS/022806
Gauteng West District Ref No: REFS/022807
Johannesburg Central District Ref No: REFS/022812
Gauteng North District Ref No: REFS/022798
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public
Administration /Public Management /Administrative Management/ Office
Administration or Management/Management Assistant/ Office Management
and Technology / Records and Archives Management plus a minimum of 2
years’ relevant experience in administration/ Auxiliary or office pool Support
services/Records management/ Asset management/and supply chain
management. Knowledge of Public Service Act and Regulations, Batho Pele
principles, and archive policies. Knowledge of file plan, Computer Literacy,
Communication, Interpersonal Relations, Problem Solving, Presentation,
Analytical, Planning and Organizing, People Management, Supervisory,
Report Writing and Minutes Taking Skills. A Valid South African driver’s license.
DUTIES : Monitor and ensure that security personnel adhere to public safety protocols
as well as safe keeping of assets. Provide switchboard and telephone support
services. Ensure that typists/data capturing services are provided to the District
and Teacher Centre. Ensure proper maintenance of the District Office and
Teacher Centre. Liaise with the property Owner and Head Office with the
regard to the maintenance of the building. Ensure that hygiene services are
provided according to the service level agreement. Ensure that deliveries to
district office are received and distributed to schools and Officials accordingly.
Ensure that duplication (Photocopier) services are rendered. Ensure proper
implementation of the file plan. Ensure that the district electronic mail system
is properly implemented and utilized. Ensure that records of all files,
correspondences and Registers are maintained. Ensure that the tracking files
and correspondence are maintained. Ensure that all registry processes and
functions are followed (Scanning and filling of documents, Condition of
documents, registry counter Services, incoming and outgoing correspondence,
opening and closing of files, archiving and disposal of documents). Implement
and ensure registry policy compliance. Monitor the franking machine, readings
and coordinate the payments thereof. Facilitate efficient and effective clean
working environment. Ensure that cleaning materials and equipment’s are
provided to all cleaners. Supervise staff. Allocate and ensure quality of work
and Manage staff leave.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Thabiso Mphosi Tel No: (012) 401 6434 (TS District)
Ms. Louisa Dhlamini Tel No: (011) 660 4581 (GW District)
Mr Linda Mabutho Tel No: (011) 983 2231 (JC District)
Ms. Matlhodi Moloto Tel No: (012) 846 3641 (GN District)
122
POST 21/157 : IT SUPPORT TECHNICIAN REF NO: REFS/022843
Directorate: IT and Service Management
Sub- Directorate: District Office Support
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3-year National Diploma/ Degree (NQF Level 6/7)
in Information Technology/Information Systems/ Computer Science plus a
minimum of 2 years’ relevant experience in Information Technology Technical
Support environment. ITIL Foundations Certificate/ certified ITIL/MCSE/A+/N+
will be an added advantage. Knowledge of legislative frameworks within the
public sector and knowledge of ITIL processes will be an advantage. Client
orientation and good customer skills, technical and interpersonal skills. Good
Supervisory skills. Good verbal and written communication skills plus report
writing. Good problem solving and analytical skills. Ability to work under
pressure, take initiative, work with minimum supervision and as part of the
team. A valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Provide technical and application support across the GDE network. Assist the
helpdesk to ensure minimum disruption to network connectivity. Provide
second line technical support and maintain LAN/WAN for all GDE users.
Minimize service disruptions by supporting and maintaining day to day
operational issues of the District and Head offices to ensure a stable and
functional environment. Manage any virus threats, Manage and maintain
printers in the environment. Advise on technical changes in the ICT
environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Eva Motshwaedi Tel No: (011) 843 6724
POST 21/158 : SENIOR PROVISIONING ADMIN OFFICER (X4 POSTS)
Sub-directorate: Finance and Administration
Unit: Provisioning and Administration for Institutions
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE Johannesburg West District Ref No: REFS/022818
Sedibeng East District Ref No: REFS/022820
Gauteng West District Ref No: REFS/022825
Johannesburg North District Ref No: REFS/022796
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized three-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level
6/7) in Financial Management/Financial Accounting/Accounting/Management
Accounting plus a minimum of 2 years’ relevant experience in a finance
environment. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act. Treasury
Regulations. Knowledge of Public Service Act and Regulations. Knowledge of
BAS, PERSAL and SAP. Public procurement procedures and financial related
policies. Computer literacy, good verbal and written communication skills
Planning and organization and Good inter-personal relations. A valid driver’s
license is essential.
DUTIES : Participate in conducting monitoring of financial administration and financial
governance. Participate in conducting planned visits and regular inspections to
ensure compliance to Financial Regulation and Supply Chain regulations.
Prepare a report on identified issues as per school visits. Monitor expenditure
against budget allocated to schools. Facilitate Financial Management and
Procurement procedures and policies to schools. Provide support in all section
21 and Partial Section 21 Schools municipal accounts. Receive invoices from
municipalities/Head Office for Non-S21 schools. Liaise with schools regarding
budget spending in terms of Section 21 function. Log and attend to all municipal
related queries. Monitor payments made by Head Office. Verify the
completeness of the ageing analysis. Reconcile age analysis against the
invoices to confirm if all payments have been allocated. Prepare goods
received voucher (RLSO2) and electronic schedule for payment. Prepare
expenditure report. Process School Fee Exemption applications. Ensure
compliance in terms of process of school fee exemption as required by the
norms and standards of school funding and the gazette. Provide support in the
implementation of policies and procedures regarding overdrafts, loans,
investments and school fee compensation applications. Verify the correctness
of the application forms with regard to the application for school fee
compensation, loan and investment. Forward applications to Head Office for
approval. Inform schools on the outcome of the application submission. Verify
and reconcile the number of fee school application submitted or not submitted
123
or declined the applications. Supervise human resources /staff. Allocate and
ensure quality of work. Assess staff performance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Jafta Lizwe at 064 929 9493 (JW District)
Ms. Nomathemba Xawuka Tel No: (016) 440 1717 (SE District)
Ms. Louisa Dhlamini Tel No: (011) 660 4581 (GW District)
Ms. Nelisiwe Mashazi Tel No: (011) 694 9321 (JN District)
POST 21/159 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT (X3 POSTS)
Sub- directorate: Finance & Administration
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE Sedibeng East District Ref No: REFS/022831
Tshwane West District Ref No: REFS/022835
Johannesburg Central District Ref No: REFS/022838
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3- year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7)
in Financial Management/ Accounting/Economics/Public Finance/Cost and
Management Accounting plus a minimum of 2 years’ experience working in
Finance working environment. Proven Computer Literacy training and
extensive experience in Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word and Power Point.
Practical experience in Government systems (BAS, SAP and PERSAL) and
knowledge and application of financial prescripts Public Finance Management
Act (PFMA) Treasury Regulations, SCOA as well as Supply Chain processes.
Good communication and supervisory skills. Report writing skills. A valid
driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Receive Budget Allocation letter for the financial year in respect of the district,
per unit from Head office. Plan and commit all running costs (as well as
accruals, where necessary) on cash flow spread sheets for various District
units. Liaise with Budget Managers and capture intended expenditure as
projections per Item for procurement in accordance with their Operational and.
allocations that need to be adjusted to where budget is available and pass
journals accordingly. Obtain PERSAL reports in order to reconcile and correctly
identify allocations in terms of fuel claims etc. Apply mid-year and year-end
adjustments/ requirements as per financial prescripts, where necessary.
Update Cash flow spread sheets as well as IYM templates/reports with
formulas and links from time to time when necessary and when SCOA Item
codes change. Compile quarterly reports on progress/challenges within the
unit. Contracting, monitoring and quarterly evaluation as well as supervising
and managing of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Nomathemba Xawuka Tel No: (016) 440 1717 (SE District)
Ms Priscilla Ravele Tel No: (012) 725 1451 (TW District)
Mr Linda Mabutho Tel No: (011) 983 2231 (JC District)
POST 21/160 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER REF NO: REFS/022793
Sub-Directorate: Finance and Administration
Unit: Provisioning and Administration for Institutions
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg East District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3-year relevant qualification National
Diploma/Degree in Public Administration /Public Management /Administrative
Management/ Office Administration or Management/Management Assistant/
Office Management and Technology plus a minimum of 2 years’ relevant
experience in administration, financial administration, supply chain
management, records management and asset management. Knowledge of
Treasury Regulations, Financial & Procurement procedures. Standard Chart of
Accounts. Financial management & financial administration. Excellent
communication skills, verbal and written. Presentation skills. Computer literacy
in Ms-Excel and Word. Interpersonal relations. Managerial & Organizing skills.
Reporting skills. Conflict management. Leadership skills. Written and verbal
communication Skills A valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Provide effective administrative support to the Business Unit. Co-ordinate and
maintain office and logistical activities such as subsistence and travel claims,
requisition of stationery, printing, document binding, faxes, e-mail, deliveries
and other requests. Provide effective general and logistical support to the
Business Unit. Compiling correspondence, reports, presentations and other
written material for the Business Unit and liaise with internal and external
stakeholders. Provide effective records management services to the Business
124
Unit, maintain records of all files, correspondences and registers. Administer
HR processes within the Business Unit in collaboration with the Directorate.
Ensure Human Resource Management such as Leave, payroll, training,
polices Comply with policies, prescripts, and other processes and procedures
within the Business Unit. Keep abreast with new policies and other regulatory
requirements. Provide supervision to personnel in the Business Unit, Allocate
and ensure quality of work.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Elizabeth Moloko Tel No: (011) 666 9109
POST 21/161 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PRINTING, PACKAGING AND
DISTRIBUTING REF NO: REFS/022765
Directorate: Examination Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3-year year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level
6/7) in Public Administration /Public Management /Administrative
Management/ Office Administration or Management/Management Assistant/
Office Management and Technology/ Records Management plus minimum of
2 years relevant experience in Examination and Assessment environment. An
understanding of Computer Systems and administration of data is needed. A
sound knowledge and understanding of printing cycle, processes and the
environment relating to high security question papers in is essential. Hands on
experience and knowledge in handling issues related to printing, packing,
storage and distribution of high security assessment materials is required. Must
be able to work under constant pressure, independently as well as in a team.
Must have experience in an education environment where high stakes question
papers are printed and must be able to function in an extremely high security
and high intensity environment. Good written and verbal communication skills
plus the ability to generate reports on a regular basis Valid Driver’s License
essential.
DUTIES : Implement the distribution process. Consolidate and capture the check lists
and confirmation sheets of the content trucks. Liaise with district regarding the
confirmation of full delivery of the consignment as per distribution list.
Communicate with Districts and other relevant stakeholders in order to ensure
that valid and reliable data is used for the process. Implement progress of
printing and packing processes. Perform physical stock count and verification.
Provide effective administrative and records to the Business Unit. Coordinate
procurement of goods and services for the unit. Maintain records of all Files,
correspondences, and Registers. Monitor the tracking of files and
correspondences. Monitor the scanning and filing of documents/ boxes and
other correspondences into the repository. Comply with policies, prescripts,
and other processes and procedures within the Business Unit. Provide policy
related advice to the stakeholders. Provide supervision to personnel in the
Business Unit. Supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Lufuno Raluombe Tel No: (010) 345 0930
NOTE : Candidates will be subjected to a skills test.
POST 21/162 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: EXAMINATION MATERIAL AND
SCRIPT ARCHIVAL REF NO: REFS/022766
Directorate: Examination Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in
Public Administration /Public Management /Administrative Management/ Office
Administration or Management/Management Assistant/ Office Management
and Technology plus minimum of 2 years relevant experience in administration,
financial administration, supply chain management, records management, and
assets management. A sound Knowledge of Public Service Act and
Regulations, Financial Procedures, Treasury Regulations, Financial and SCM
Prescripts and other relevant Prescripts governing Public Service. Knowledge
of Batho Pele principles, Government and administration. Good
Communication Skills, Computer Literacy, Project Management, Interpersonal
relations, Problem Solving, Presentation skills, Analytical skills, Financial
Management skills, Planning and Organizing, People management,
Facilitation, Report writing and minutes taking. Valid Driver’s License essential.
125
DUTIES : Facilitate in the examination Script Control processes. Provide administration
that all scripts are accounted for at all levels, and these are stored in an indexed
filing system. Facilitate the development of examination material. Maintain the
Digital Archiving of all candidate scripts. Provide administration on the scripts
received and package per paper, centre and per district. Maintain electronic
database of archived scripts. Coordinate procurement of goods and services
for the sub- directorate. Ensure implementation of procurement processes and
procedures to prevent deviations. Render assistance during compilation of the
budgeting, audit and financial functions, and monitor expenditure and
resources. Provide effective administrative support to the Business Unit.
Compile correspondence, reports, presentations, and other written material for
the Business Unit. Compile and disseminate minutes of meetings, discussions,
and workshops to relevant stakeholders. Provide supervision to personnel in
the Business Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Lufuno Raluombe Tel No: (010) 345 0930
POST 21/163 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
REFS/022768
Directorate: System Administration and Certification
Sub-directorate: System Administration
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three- year National Diploma/Degree National Diploma/Degree
(NQF6/NQF7) in Public Administration /Public Management /Administrative
Management/ Office Administration or Management/Management Assistant/
Office Management and Technology/ Information Technology or Computer
Science or ICT majoring in Information Systems plus minimum of 2 years’
experience within Examination or assessment environment. Knowledge of
Public Service Act and Regulations., Employment of Educator’s Act,
Examination Regulations and Policies, SA-SAMS , Labour Relations Act and
relevant legislation pertaining to Integrated Examination communication
Systems (IECS) Good Computer literacy, Communication Skills, Planning and
Organising skills, Analytical skills, Conflict Management skills, Report writing
skills, Good Interpersonal relations, Problem Solving, Supervisory Skills,
Facilitation and Presentation skills A valid driver's license is essential.
DUTIES : Provide supervisory services in the integrated examination computer system
for credible registration of examination centres and candidates. Conduct
system audits to verify the state of readiness of examination districts, centres
and candidates on the system to conduct the examinations. Co-ordinate and
monitor the processes for the printing and distribution of examination material.
Provide supervisory services in the integrated examination computer system
for credible resulting of candidates. Ensure that all registers candidates that
wrote the examination are accurately and complete resulted. Co-ordinate and
monitor on the registration of Re-mark and Re-check candidates. Monitor and
support the usage of functions of the Integrated Examination Computer System
within the district. Verify and report on the audit trails of users on IECS.
Spearhead the verification and registration of Online candidates. Plan and
monitor the verification process of online candidates. Engage with districts and
other stakeholders on matters pertaining to the improvement and functionality
of IECS. Provide input on provincial policy on examination and assessment
guidelines. Report on the finances of the sub-directorate and co-ordination of
the writing of submissions. Provide support on management of procurement
processes and finances allocated to the Directorate. Manage the human
resource matters in the sub-directorate System Admin.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Obakeng Babe at 072 548 3942
POST 21/164 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: REVENUE MANAGEMENT AND
REPORTING REF NO: REFS/022769
Directorate: Financial Accounting
Sub-directorate: Revenue Management and Reporting
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in
Financial Management/ Accounting/Economics/Public Finance/Cost and
Management Accounting plus a minimum of 2 years’ experience working in
126
Finance working environment. Proven Computer Literacy training and
extensive experience in Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word and Power Point.
Practical experience in Government systems (BAS, SAP and PERSAL) and
knowledge and application of financial prescripts Public Finance Management
Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations. Good communication and supervisory
skills. Report writing skills. skills A valid driver's license is essential.
DUTIES : Prepare reconciliation by the 13th of each month: BAS, PERSAL, Bank and
Revenue Reconciliation. Prepare Finance and Operating lease schedules by
the 13th of each month. Populate the lease schedule and disclosure note to
the IFS and AFS in terms of chapter 8 and modified cash standards. Provide
administration of petty cash. Assist in receiving claims/advances from end-
users and verifying compliance with petty cash policy and regulations. Quality
assures documents/payments within a day. Receive of payment batches from
the supervisor. Compile Fruitless and wasteful expenditure register by the 13th
of each month. Communicate with directorates and district offices to submit
fruitless and wasteful expenditure by the 7th of each month and journals before
BAS closure. Participate in collection of revenue within the Department.
Analyze all revenue items in the general ledger. Authorize the captured manual
receipt on BAS and perform the day end/reconcile the receipt and cash
collected daily. Recovered Debts in accordance with the acts and regulations
(Daily). Calculate and verify the debt amounts to be taken on. Provide monthly,
weekly reports and audits.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Monicca Madibo Tel No: (011) 355 0185
POST 21/165 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: RESEARCH COORDINATION REF
NO: REFS/022772
Directorate: Education Research and Knowledge Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in
Public Administration /Public Management /Administrative Management/ Office
Administration or Management/Management Assistant/ Office Management
and Technology plus a minimum of 2 years’ experience in a research
environment. Experience in undertaking research and presentations, Desktop
research and analytical skills, report writing skills, good computer skills (MS
Word, Excel, and PowerPoint), Good communication skills (verbal and written),
Ability to work in a team. Understanding of legislative frameworks. An
understanding of Gauteng Provincial Government’s strategic vision, priorities,
and Public Service legislation. Thorough knowledge and understanding of
policies and legislation governing education in the RSA. The ability to identify
and conceptualise research problems and find solutions, and a Valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Responsible for the distribution and collection of research surveys conducted.
Assist with Research Co-ordination Sub-Directorate’s activities, including
research co-ordination and processing of academic research. Assist with the
capturing of data and validating data from the source. Assist with the analysis
of data and report writing. Assist with the strategic and operational planning
and budgeting. Support the dissemination of research outputs. Responsible for
the storage and retrieval of documents and files. Compile monthly and
quarterly statistics and reports. Develop and maintain a database of research
findings and internal research reports. Collect, analyse, and collate any other
research-related information as requested by the Head of the Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr David Bapela Tel No: (011) 355 1585
NOTE : Candidates will be subjected to a skills test.
POST 21/166 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: PAYMENT PROCESSING REF NO:
REFS/022774 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Financial Accounting
Sub-directorate: Payment Processing
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7)
qualification in Financial Management/ Accounting/Economics/Public
Finance/Cost and Management Accounting plus a minimum of 2 years’
experience working in a finance environment. Knowledge of PFMA and
127
Treasury Regulations, Procurement procedures and other Financial related
policies, financial administration and Public Service Regulation, Basic
Accounting System, SAP and IMS. Good verbal and written communication,
Computer literacy (MS Excel, Access, Word and PowerPoint), Interpersonal
relations, Problem Solving, Analytical skills, Planning and Organizing and
Report Writing. A valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Ensure all supplier payment is made within 30 days. Verify the accuracy of
invoices. Preparing and submission of payment run to Treasury. Clear payment
exceptions within two days after each payment run and also liaise with
Treasury regarding rejections. Review weekly runs against successful payment
runs of the financial year on weekly basis. Identify overpayments and
duplicates payments. Follow-up and resolve payment issues and queries from
internal and external customers. Compile accruals submitted monthly, quarterly
and yearly. Request Payment proposal after a last payment run of the month.
Ensure that all other directorates and districts accrual schedules as at the end
of the reporting month are submitted to Accounts Payable by the stipulated
date of the new month. Execute consequence management on non-
submission, late submission, incomplete and incorrect information. Exercise
judgment in evaluating completeness and accuracy of invoices submitted for
payments. Participate in the preparation of effecting Payment, Process
Director, Exceptions and Payment Run reports on weekly basis. Source
documentation for Internal and External Audit purposes retrieved and
submitted within 2 days. Provide effective, efficient supervision of staff and
Management of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Nonna Swanepoel Tel No: (011) 355 1102
POST 21/167 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: TRANSPORT (X2 POSTS)
Sub- directorate: Finance and Administration
Unit: Auxiliary Services and Fleet Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Ekurhuleni North District Ref No: REFS/022782
Ekurhuleni South District Ref No: REFS/022790
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized three - year National Diploma/Degree in Transport
Management/ Transport Economics plus a minimum of 2 years’ relevant
experience in Transport management. Knowledge of PFMA, National
Transport Circulars. Public Service Act and Regulations. Knowledge of Supply
Chain Management Policy and Electronic Log Sheet System. Computer
literacy, communication and Supervisory skills. Report writing, interpersonal
and problem-solving skills. A valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Supervise, Render g-Fleet and subsidized vehicles administration services
within the Department. Verify the submission of log sheets at the end of the
month. Administer the cost-effective utilization of government-owned fleet and
subsided vehicles, eliminate and reduce fruitless expenditure. Supervise the
issuing of g-Fleet vehicles in GDE. Validate the g-Fleet and subsidized vehicles
asset register. Facilitate the requisition of vehicles for special project e.g.
Exams from g-Fleet during exam time. Liaise with the line management with
regard to all relevant matters pertaining to Fleet Management. Prepare
monthly/ quarterly reports g-Fleet vehicles and subsidized vehicles. Prepare
and distribute relevant documents for the Subsidized Motor Transport Advisory
Committee. Implement decisions taken at the Subsidized Vehicle Advisory
Committee meetings. Verify vehicle fuel claims and other related payments to
Service Providers within prescribed timeframes and procurement policies.
Facilitate the requisition of subsidized vehicles. Implement transport policy
within GDE. Provide inputs on the development of transport internal control
policies for GDE. Administer the g-Fleet vehicles in accordance with Transport
Circular No. 4 2000. Ensure that requests and approvals of g-Fleet vehicles
are in accordance with procedures as stipulated in the Administer the
Subsidized Motor Vehicles in accordance with Transport Circular No. 5 of 2003.
Ensure that requests and approvals of Subsidized Motor Vehicles are in
accordance with procedures as stipulated in the Transport Circular No. 5 of
2003. Administer g-Fleet vehicles and Subsidized Motor Vehicles in line with
the relevant transport guidelines or policies. Ensure that the procurement of g-
Fleet vehicles within GDE is in line with the Transport Circular No.4 of 2000
and Service Level Agreement. Ensure that the procurement of Subsidized
Motor Vehicles within GDE is in line with the Transport Circular No. 5 of 2003.
Implement the cost-control measures in line with the PFMA, Treasury
128
Regulations and other internal budget-control policies in respect of official
travel costs. Administer g-Fleet Vehicles accident, Damaged, stolen and loss
of vehicle within the GDE. Provide guidance with reporting of
accident/damaged/stolen vehicles within the GDE. Ensure that misuse and
abuse of g Fleet vehicles are investigated. Ensure that all users of government
owned vehicles are assessed on their driving skills before they can be issued
with the vehicle. Ensure that all users of government owned vehicles and
subsidized vehicles are inducted on vehicle policies. Conduct preliminary
investigation on fraudulent claims. Allocate parking space within GDE.
Coordinate the acquisition of parking facilities. Implement the parking policy.
Provide advice in all Parking related matters. Supervise Staff. Compile and
submit work plan, performance development plan, and job description and
performance agreements of staff. Prepare submissions, letters and internal
memorandums.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Emily Mochela Tel No: (011) 746 8190 (EN District)
Mr. Sipho Zonele Tel No: (011) 389 6062 (ES District)
POST 21/168 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER (X2 POSTS)
Sub Directorate: Dispute Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg West District Ref No: REFS/O22802
Gauteng East District Ref No: REFS/022799
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized three- year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level
6/7) in Labour Relations /Law/Employment Relations/ Human Resource
Management majoring in Labour Relation plus a minimum of 2 years’ relevant
experience in labour relations environment. Knowledge of PSCBC; GPSSBC
and ELRC. Knowledge of Employment of educators Act, Treasury Regulations,
Public Service Act and Regulations, EEA, PSA, PSR, BCEA, SDA, COIDA,
SASA. Good Communication Skills. Client Services. Policy analysis and
research, conflict and problem Solving, presentation and Supervisory Skills. A
valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Implement and solve disciplinary enquiries or cases. Investigate cases of
misconduct and support investigation reports. Represent the Department
during formal disciplinary hearings. Provide advice on informal disciplinary
hearings. Train managers on disciplinary process. Ensure the implementation
of disciplinary sanctions. Facilitate the resolution Grievances. Investigation of
grievances. Facilitate the process of resolving grievances reported to the
district as well as ensuring sound employment relations. Assist and advise line
managers in resolving staff grievances. Monitor the resolution of grievances.
Facilitate the resolution of Disputes. Investigate disputes lodged with
bargaining Councils. Generate submission for the settlement of dispute.
Represent the employer at dispute resolution forum, eg CCMA, GPSSBC, and
ELRC. Ensure the implementation of the awards. Provide training and
advocacy on Labour Relations matters within the district. Coordinate
training/workshops for the districts. Maintain labour peace within the
organization. Provide advice on Labour Relations matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lizwe Jafta at 064 929 9493 (JW District)
Mr Mpho Leotlela Tel No: (011) 736 0717 (GE District)
POST 21/169 : CHIEF PERSONNEL OFFICER: CONDITIONS OF SERVICE (X2 POSTS)
Sub Directorate: Transversal Human Resource Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg East District Ref No: REFS/022789
Gauteng East District Ref No: REFS/022770
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3-year National Diploma/Degree in Human
Resource Management/ Human Resource Development or Personnel
Management or Public Management majoring in HR plus a minimum of 2 years
relevant experience in the HR working environment. Knowledge of PERSAL,
BAS and SAP Knowledge of Public Service Regulations, Collective
Agreements and all relevant legislation, policies and procedures within Human
Resource in the public sector. Good interpersonal skills and communication
skills (verbal and written). Administrative, analytical and organizational skills.
Supervisory skills and Computer literacy. Ability to work under pressure and
long hours during audit process. A valid driver’s license is essential.
129
DUTIES : To Provide the administration of conditions of service and employee benefits
and ensure provision of all personnel administration services on PERSAL
Facilitate the processing of homeowner’s allowance, resettlement, relocation
overtime, transfers, debt management, qualifications bonus, acting allowance,
medical aid, long services, pension benefits, payment of leave gratuity,
overtime, acting allowance and salary administration. Ensure the
implementation of termination transactions on PERSAL and current and update
records on PERSAL. Support the implementation of termination transactions
on PERSAL and ensure current and update records on PERSAL. Advice GDF
on debt not captured on PERSAL and ensure that PILIR register is submitted
prior to the processing of termination. Train Office/District based employees on
the completion of documents and the termination policy for the following
resignation, contract expiry, retirement, death, misconduct, ill retirement and
early retirement, severance package and exit interviews. Provide a Human
resource advisory on conditions of services to all departmental personnel and
compile monthly statistical reports and management reports. Conduct research
on condition of services and ensure that grey arrears are well managed.
Ensure effective, efficient supervision of staff Conduct performance reviews
and ensure that these are submitted to the Performance Management and
Development unit timeously.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Elizabeth Moloko Tel No: (011) 666 9109 (JE District)
Mr Mpho Leotlela Tel No: (011) 736 0717 (GE District)
POST 21/170 : CHIEF PERSONNEL OFFICER: ESTABLISHMENT CONTROL AND
SYSTEM REF NO: REFS/022771
Directorate: HRTS
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3-year National Diploma/Degree in Human
Resource Management/ Human Resource Development or Personnel
Management or Public Management majoring in HR plus 2 years’ experience
in establishment administration. Knowledge of PERSAL, Knowledge of CORE,
Establishment Control, Public Service Regulations, Collective Agreements,
Basic Condition of Employment Act and all relevant legislative framework that
governs all HR related policies and Procedures within Human Resource in the
Public Sector. Good Interpersonal skills and communications skills (Verbal and
Written). Administrative, Analytical and organizational skills, Project
Management skills, Conflict management, Supervisory Skills and computer
literacy. Ability to work under pressure and long hours during audit process. A
valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : To effectively implement and administer organisation and post establishment
administration services. Ensure that PERSAL system is aligned to the
approved structure and posts establishment. Verification of post establishment
and implementation of changes thereof. Establish control and monitoring to
ensure efficient and effective implementation of post establishment. Generate
and analyse reports with regards to special THRS projects and other
establishment administration related functions. Ensure implementation of all
departmental Transversal HR Policies, strategies and procedures to ensure
adherence by Departmental Personnel. Render an effective HR advisory
service to management and employees in the department. Ensure compliance
with applicable legislation. Supervise, assist with authorization of staff and post
establishment administrative transactions, provide training, manage leave and
assess the performance of subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Grace Majola Tel No: (011) 843 6823
POST 21/171 : SENIOR PROVISIONING ADMIN OFFICER: AUXILIARY SUPPORT
SERVICES REF NO: REFS/022773
Directorate: Auxiliary Services and Fleet Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized three- year National Diploma/ Degree (NQF Level
6/7) in Public Administration /Public Management /Administrative
Management/ Office Administration or Management/Management Assistant/
Office Management and Technology /Logistic Management/ Supply Chain
Management qualification plus a minimum of 2 years’ experience in
130
Supervisory level in Auxiliary Support Services /provision of Admin Support.
Knowledge of PFMA, Supply Chain Management Policies, Knowledge of
Public Service Act and Regulations, Occupational Health and Safety, Auxiliary
Support Services policies and procedures, Understand the Batho Pele
Principles. A valid driver’s license, Supervisory skills, Communication skills
(verbal and written), Good interpersonal skills, Problem-solving skills,
Organising skills, Report writing skill, Administrative skills; Time Management
skills, Analytical skills; Financial Management skills, Computer Literacy (Ms
Word, Excel, Outlook, and Power Point and Outlook). Ability to work under
pressure and meet deadlines. A valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to the Business Unit. Render assistance during
the compilation of the budgeting, audit, and financial functions, monitoring
expenditure and resources. Ensure that goods and services are procured
according to the procurement and budget plan of the business Unit. Ensure
that the correct item, quantity, and quality are delivered according to the
purchase order. Follow up on the status of orders and payments, Ensure the
implementation of procurement processes and procedures to prevent
deviations. Coordinate and monitor assets in the Business Unit. Compile
submissions for procurement of goods and services. Compile correspondence,
reports, presentations, and other written material for the Business Unit.
Facilitate efficient and effective clean working environment. Liaise with service
providers on Waste Management matters and Hygiene Services. Compile
monthly reports, Ensure the provision of cleaning material and equipment to all
cleaners. Prepare inventory management for cleaning material. Liaise with
property owner about the day-to-day maintenance of ablution. Oversee the
provision of general assistant work. Monitor and ensure that the function of
loading and off-loading furniture to relevant destinations is performed. Monitor
and ensure that government vehicles are cleaned. Implement Auxiliary Support
policies, guidelines, and procedures. Participate in the development and
review of the uniform and protective clothing policy. Ensure Compliance to
Occupational Health and Safety Policy that spot check is conducted on a
weekly basis. Manage the delivery and storage of goods ordered. Ensure
Compliance to Occupational Health and Safety Policy and Procedure within
GDE. Ensure that Performance Management System is executed. Allocate and
ensure quality of work.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Salani Sadiki Tel No: (011) 355 0761
POST 21/172 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER (X3 POSTS)
Sub Directorate: Examination Administration
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Gauteng East District Ref No: REFS/ 022800
Johannesburg South District Ref No: REFS/022803
Gauteng West District Ref No: REFS/022805
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in
Public Administration /Public Management /Administrative Management/ Office
Administration or Management/Management Assistant/ Office Management
and Technology plus a minimum of 2 years’ relevant experience within
examination or assessment environment. Knowledge of Public Service Act and
Regulations, PFMA, SASA Labour Relations Act and Knowledge of Gazette
31337 as amended. Knowledge of relevant legislation pertaining to Exams and
Assessments Processes, Computer literacy, Communication Skills, Planning
and Organising skills, Analytical skills, Conflict Management skills, Report
writing skills, Good Interpersonal relations, Problem Solving, Supervisory
Skills, Facilitation and Presentation skills. A valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Supervise and render administration support to the centre & learner
registrations in the District Office. Provide administration support in the
registration processes of Grade 10, 11 and 12, AET Level 4, NSC part-time and
repeater candidates; Supplementary, remark / recheck and the Senior
Certificate candidates. Administer concessions for all Schools during
assessment/examinations period. Verify and clear immigrant candidates on the
Integrated Examination Computer System (IECS). Quality assures registration
data on the IECS to minimize technical irregularities. Participate in establishing
readiness of centers to conduct the examinations. Participate in the compilation
of examination related plans before commencement of examinations (i.e.
Management and Monitoring Plans). Participate in the drafting of the strong-
room policy for the Unit. Sample and submit Scripts for pre-marking purposes.
131
Quality assure Scripts and ensure that they are scanned, packaged and
distributed to Marking Venues. Provide evidence regarding the afore
mentioned processes and systems are in place to be readily available for the
Head Office, Department of Basic Education (DBE) and Umalusi visits on
readiness process. Provide Administration Support in the conduct of
Examinations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Mpho Leotlela Tel No: (011) 736 0717 (GE District)
Ms Lola Malimagovha Tel No: (011) 247 5947 (JS District)
Ms Louisa Dhlamini Tel No: (011) 660 4581 (GW District)
POST 21/173 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER REF NO: REFS/022780
Sub-Directorate: Finance and Administration
Unit: Provisioning and Administration
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Tshwane West District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3-year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in
Public Administration /Public Management /Administrative Management/ Office
Administration or Management/Management Assistant/ Office Management
and Technology plus a minimum of 2 years’ relevant experience in
administration, financial administration, supply chain management, records
management and asset management. Knowledge of Treasury Regulations,
Financial & Procurement procedures. Standard Chart of Accounts. Financial
management & financial administration. Excellent communication skills, verbal
and written. Presentation skills. Computer literacy in Ms-Excel and Word.
Interpersonal relations. Managerial & Organizing skills. Reporting skills.
Conflict management. Leadership skills. Written and verbal communication
Skills. A valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Provide effective administrative support to the Business Unit. Co-ordinate and
maintain office and logistical activities such as subsistence and travel claims,
requisition of stationery, printing, document binding, faxes, e-mail, deliveries
and other requests. Provide effective general and logistical support to the
Business Unit. Compiling correspondence, reports, presentations and other
written material for the Business Unit and liaise with internal and external
stakeholders. Provide effective records management services to the Business
Unit, maintain records of all files, correspondences and registers. Administer
HR processes within the Business Unit in collaboration with the Directorate.
Ensure Human Resource Management such as Leave, payroll, training,
polices Comply with policies, prescripts, and other processes and procedures
within the Business Unit. Keep abreast with new policies and other regulatory
requirements. Provide supervision to personnel in the Business Unit, Allocate
and ensure quality of work.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Priscilla Ravele Tel No: (012) 725 1451 (TW District)
POST 21/174 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: RECORD MANAGEMENT SUPPORT REF NO:
REFS/022777
Directorate: Auxiliary Services and Fleet Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three- year National Diploma/Degree in Records and Archiving
Management/ Public Administration /Public Management /Administrative
Management/ Office Administration or Management/Management Assistant/
Office Management and Technology plus minimum of 2 years’ experience in
administration environment. Knowledge of Office equipment’s administrative
procedure relating to files. Registry norms, standards and procedures.
Planning and Organizing. Organizational policies skills. Communication skills
(written & verbal), organizational and interpersonal. Interpersonal relations,
problem solving skills, report writing. Presentation and Facilitating skills.
Project Management skills. Report writing skills and computer literacy and
ability to work under pressure. Knowledge of PFMA, PAIA. Knowledge of
Shortlisting and interview processes. procurement procedures, Treasury
Regulations and other legislative frameworks applicable to the public service.
Batho Pele principles. A valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Provide effective records/registry management services to the Business Unit.
Monitor the opening and closing of files. Monitor policy compliance. Provide
effective administrative support to the Business Unit. Provide secretariat
132
services to the Business Unit’s meetings, Provide effective records
management services to the Business Unit. Comply with policies, prescripts,
and other processes and procedures within the Business Unit. Provide
effective administrative support to the Business Unit. Monitor the monthly and
quarterly duty rooster. Monitor the franking machine, readings 149 and the
payments thereof. Provide effective general and logistical support to the
Business Unit. Monitor requisitions. Procurement of office equipment,
stationary and distribution thereof. Ensure all assets in Registry are barcoded
accordingly. Ensure all assets are listed in the asset register. Communicate
with Asset Directorate regarding damaged and broken assets. Monitor HR
processes within the Business Unit in collaboration with the Directorate:
Provide supervision to personnel in the Business Unit. Human Resource
Management such as leave, payroll, training, polices, appointments. Provide
secretariat services to the Business Unit’s meetings. Liaise with internal and
external stakeholders. Monitoring of staff development
ENQUIRIES : Mr Salani Sadiki Tel No: (011) 355 0761
POST 21/175 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: CURRICULUM INFORMATION ANALYSIS (X4
POSTS)
Sub-Directorate: Information Systems and Strategic Planning
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Ekurhuleni South District Ref No: REFS/022792
Tshwane West District Ref No: REFS/022781
Johannesburg South District Ref No: REFS/022794
Johannesburg East District Ref No: REFS/022791
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three- year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in
Information Technology/Information Systems/ Computer Science/ Public
Administration /Public Management /Administrative Management/ Office
Administration or Management/Management Assistant/ Office Management
and Technology plus a minimum of 2 years relevant experience in an
Administrative Officer role. Knowledge of relevant prescribed Act, regulations
and policies within Government. Computer Literacy, good telephone etiquette,
sound organizational skills, verbal and non-verbal communication skills. A valid
driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate and control data information systems and processes. Ensure that
quality of information is collected using the correct systems and processes e.g.
SASAMS/Data Quality Assurance Utility, Valistractor and Data Driven
Dashboard Application. Capture and maintain district information database.
Analyze, verify, interpret, and present data to internal and external clients
through data surveys. Provide and maintain effective document management
systems. Assist in designing form to collect and store data for future use.
Ensure that document storage, archiving, back-up and recovery procedures
are functioning correctly. Monitor and review data collection methods, systems
and processes to enhance service delivery. Consolidate information and
compile data report for the consumption of all relevant stakeholders. Maintain
and distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as requested.
Provide feedback information through both summary and comprehensive
reports. Comply with policies, prescripts and other processes and procedures
within the Business Unit. Maintain compliance to policies, prescripts and
procedures pertaining to data management. Keep abreast new policies and
other regulatory requirements such as POPI Act. Render general office
administration services. Record, organize, store, capture and retrieve
correspondence and data. Update registers and statistics and handle routine
enquiries. Keep and maintain the filing system for the district. Keep and
maintain the incoming and outgoing data of the schools within the district.
Supervision and training of staff. Manage and communicate with staff. Allocate
and monitor duties to subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Sipho Zonele Tel No: (011) 389 6062 (ES District)
Ms Priscilla Ravele Tel No: (012) 725 1451 (TW District)
Ms Lola Malimagovha Tel No: (011) 247 5947 (JS District)
Ms Elizabeth Moloko Tel No: (011) 666 9109 (JE District)
133
POST 21/176 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS AND FEEDBACK
REF NO: REFS/022776 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Assessment Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three- year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public
Administration /Public Management /Administrative Management/ Office
Administration or Management/Management Assistant/ Office Management
and Technology plus a minimum of 2 years’ experience in Administration,
Financial Administration, supply chain management, records Management,
administration in the planning and delivery of projects, and assets
Management. Knowledge of Public Service Act and Regulations. Financial
Procedures, Treasury Regulations and other financial management skills.
Knowledge of Government and administration, Batho Pele principles. Good
communication skills (Verbal and written). Computer literacy, Project
Management, Interpersonal relations, Presentation, technical and
interpersonal skills. People management, report writing, minutes taking, good
problem solving, planning and organising skills. A valid driver’s license is
essential.
DUTIES : Provide effective administrative support to the Sub-Directorate. Co-ordinate
and maintain office administration such as drafting of management plan,
memorandums, submissions, controlling of subsistence and travel claims,
requisition of stationery, printing, document binding, faxes, e-mail, logistical
arrangements for meetings and workshops, deliveries and other requests.
Compiling correspondence, reports, presentations, and other written material
for the Sub-directorate. Render assistance during compilation of the budgeting
and financial functions. Liaise with stakeholders during the collection of learner
performance data on a quarterly basis. Provide secretariat service to the Sub-
Directorate, compile and disseminate minutes of meetings, discussions, and
workshops to relevant stakeholders’ meetings. Liaise with internal and external
stakeholders, ensure update and communication for all the activities in the
Sub-Directorate. Provide effective records management services to the Sub-
Directorate. Maintain records of all documents (manually and electronically),
files, scanned documents and keep track of all incoming and outgoing
correspondences. Keep abreast with new policies, guidelines and instructions
issued by the Directorate. Provide supervision to personnel in the Sub-
Directorate. Allocate and ensure quality of work. Management of staff leave
accordingly. Capacitate and develop staff. Assess staff performance. Apply
discipline where needed according to relevant policies that govern disciplinary
procedure.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Bongiwe Mangciphu Tel No: (010) 601 8030
POST 21/177 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: MARKING, ADMINISTRATION
PROCESS REF NO: REFS/022767
Directorate: Examination Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3-year year National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level
6/7) in Public Administration /Public Management /Administrative
Management/ Office Administration or Management/Management Assistant/
Office Management and Technology plus minimum of 2 years relevant
experience in administration, financial administration, supply chain
management, records management, and assets management. A sound
Knowledge of Public Service Act and Regulations, Batho Pele principles.
Knowledge of Financial Procedures, Treasury Regulations and other Financial
and SCM Prescripts. Good written and verbal communication skills. Computer
literacy. Project Management skills Problem Solving skills, Presentation skills,
Report writing and minutes taking. Valid Driver’s License essential.
DUTIES : Facilitate the administrative function of the Appointment of Markers. Verify the
NSC Applications on the electronic marker application System from 15 districts.
Facilitate the preselection and post selection application processes. Prepare
the administrative documents for the selections of the markers. Populate the
parameters on electronic marker application system for letters of appointment
to be generated. Provide the administrative support for the selection and
appointment of Examination Assistants. Facilitate the marking Centre
134
administration process. Prepare all administrative documents for all marking
centres. Provide the administrative support at the marking centres. Provide
effective administrative support to the Business Unit. Compile correspondence,
reports, presentations, and other written material for the Business Unit.
Compile and disseminate minutes of meetings, discussions, and workshops to
relevant stakeholders. Arrange appointments for official visits, meetings, and
other events. Provide secretariat services to the Business Unit’s meetings.
Coordinate the procurement of goods and services for the sub- directorate.
Compile submissions for procurement of goods and services. Monitor assets
within the Business Unit. Co-ordinate requisition of stationery, printing,
document binding, faxes, e-mail, deliveries, and other requests. Provide
supervision to personnel in the Business Unit. Supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Lufuno Raluombe Tel No: (010) 345 0930
POST 21/178 : SOCIAL WORKER: GRADE 1 (X11 POSTS)
Directorate Early Childhood Development
SALARY : R325 200 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg Central District Ref No: REFS/022844 (X3 Posts)
Sedibeng East District Ref No: REFS/022846 (X3 Posts)
Tshwane North District Ref No: REFS/022850 (X3 Posts)
Johannesburg East Ref No: REFS/022854
Tshwane West District Ref No: REFS/022857
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree in Social Work (NQF 7). Registration with the South African Council
for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as a Social Worker. Ability to
implement chapter 5 and 6 of the Children’s Act 38 of 2005. Certified copies of
ID and a valid driver’s license. Knowledge and understanding of early
childhood development environment. Have communication, coordination,
planning and organizing, report writing skills, teamwork and computer literacy.
Accomplish tasks, prevent, alleviate distress and use resources effectively.
DUTIES : Implement Children’s Act 38 of 2005, PFMA, register ECDs, monitor, facilitate
panels and recommendations for funding, maintenance of district database,
implementation of provincial and national projects. submission of district
reports, investigate ministerial enquiries and submission of reports, working
with ECD stakeholders, coordinate and facilitate regional stakeholders’ forums,
capacity building for ECD service providers on registration of ECDs,
compliance and governance, conduct inspections and monitoring of new,
renewal or re-registration of ECD services. guide and support ECD centres to
ensure compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mantwa Mogashoa at 066 487 2604
POST 21/179 : PRINCIPAL PERSONNEL OFFICER: POLICY AND PROCEDURE ON
INCAPACITY LEAVE AND ILL-HEALTH RETIREMENT (PILIR) REF NO:
REFS/022813
Directorate: HRTS
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a minimum of 3- 5 years relevant experience in an HR working
environment. Must have knowledge of Policy and Procedure on Incapacity
Leave and Ill-Health Retirement (PILIR) and PERSAL. Knowledge of Public
Service Act 1994 and employment of educators Act of 1998, Regulations,
Collective Agreements and all relevant legislation, policies, and procedures
within Human Resource in the public sector. Computer literacy in MS Excel,
MS Word, MS Access and MS Outlook and. Good interpersonal skills and
communication skills (verbal and written). Administrative, analytical and
organizational and Supervisory skills. Ability to work under pressure and long
hours. A valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Ensure the effective and efficient management of PILIR. Oversee and
management of level 5 employees (PMDS, leave, conflict, resources; etc. and
their day-to-day functions. Monitor and update the tracking grid. Provide
support to the Districts and Head Office. Visit to the clients and District offices
to provide support. Must be able to facilitate PILIR training. Must be able to
take minutes. Quality assure all PILIR applications/outcome letters. Compile
weekly, monthly, quarterly, and annual reports with strict adherence to time
frames. Generate submissions/memo. Must attend to all PILIR queries.
Participate in the development and review of departmental PILIR (policy on
135
leave for ill-health retirement) policy, guidelines, strategies, and procedures
and implement thereof. Conduct desktop research on Human Resource best
practices. Analyse departmental PILIR policy, guidelines, strategy and Human
Resource procedure manuals to identify gaps. Coordinate the approval of
PILIR guidelines and strategy in consulting with relevant stakeholders. Monitor
compliance on PILIR process and procedures in line with relevant
stakeholders. Create awareness on PILIR procedures by conducting
workshop, interpreting and explaining the PILIR policies and procedures to the
Department personnel. Provide support with the implementation of PILIR
transaction on PERSAL. Receive and verify required supporting documents of
independent medical assessment from a sick employee. Update PILIR tracking
grid for their respective cluster/office participate in the implementation of
effective and efficient administrative systems and procedures within the
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr VE Netshithuthuni Tel No: (011) 843 6865
POST 21/180 : PRINCIPAL PERSONNEL OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE
ADMINISTRATION SERVICES REF NO: REFS/022823
Directorate: HRTS
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a minimum of 3- 5 years relevant experience in the HR working
environment. in HR working environment. Knowledge of PERSAL, Public
Service Regulations, Collective Agreements and all relevant legislation,
policies and procedures within Human Resource in the public sector. Good
interpersonal skills and communication skills (verbal and written).
Administrative, analytical and organizational skills. Supervisory skills and
Computer literacy. Ability to work under pressure and long hours. A valid
driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Coordinate the provision of all personnel administration services on PERSAL
for SMS and MMS members. Support implementation of appointments of
PERSAL for SMS and MMS members. Facilitate the processing of
Homeowners’ allowance. Facilitate the processing of resettlement and
relocation costs, medical aid, long services, pension benefits and payment of
leave gratuity for SMS and MMS members. Facilitate the processing of
overtime, transfers, debt management, qualifications bonus, acting allowance
and salary administration for SMS and MMS members. Provide support on
directorates regarding leave management and update leave register on
PERSAL and Employment Self Service (ESS). Update of resignation
transactions on electronic database for tracking and the personnel file for SMS
and MMS members. Approve/ Disapprove conditions of service transactions
on PERSAL. Support the implementation of termination transactions on
PERSAL and ensure current and update records on PERSAL. Advise GDF on
debt not captured on PERSAL. Quality assures the completed and signed
retirement pack from the Employee retiring. Submit completed exit
questionnaire to notify Performance Management Development on resignation
for intervention. Train Office/District based employees on the completion of
documents and the termination policy for the following: Resignation. Contract
expiry. Retirement. Death. Misconduct. Ill Health retirement. Early retirement.
Severance package. Exit interviews. Co Ordinate reporting lines as well as
appointment of SMS and MMS members on ESS Provide a Human Resource
advisory on conditions of services to all departmental personnel. Support the
collation of the appointment, leave, exit and another transversal HR needs from
the district/ client and respond thereto. Facilitate information sharing sessions
for all the personnel in the Department. Compile monthly statistical reports and
management reports. Ensure effective, efficient supervision of staff. And
coordinate the signing of job descriptions. Conduct performance reviews.
Assist in the provisioning of stationery and office supplies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Jabulile Mchunu Tel No: (011) 843 6609
POST 21/181 : PRINCIPAL PERSONNEL OFFICER: CONDITIONS OF SERVICE REF NO:
REFS/022830 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: HRTS
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
136
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificates plus a minimum of 3-5 years’ relevant experience in the
HR working environment. Experience should include conditions of service,
appointments, terminations, leave, Pillar, IOD and salary adjustments.
Knowledge and understanding of Human Resource Management policies,
procedures, regulations, current legislations peculiar to education and public
service. Excellent communication (verbal and written) and interpersonal skills.
Ability to work under pressure, use of PERSAL and to provide advisory support
to business units. Computer literacy in MS Excel, MS Word MS Access and
MS outlook. Applicant must be in a possession of a South African valid driver’s
license
DUTIES : Coordinate the provision of all personnel administration services on PERSAL.
Support implementation of appointments of PERSAL. Facilitate the processing
of Homeowners’ allowance. Facilitate the processing of resettlement and
relocation costs, medical aid, long services, pension benefits and payment of
leave gratuity. Facilitate the processing of overtime, transfers, debt
management, qualifications bonus, acting allowance and salary administration.
Provide support on directorates regarding leave management and update
leave register on PERSAL and Employment Self Service (ESS). Update of
resignation transactions on electronic database for tracking and the personnel
file. Approve/ Disapprove conditions of service transactions on PERSAL.
Support the implementation of termination transactions on PERSAL and
ensure current and update records on PERSAL. Advise GDF on debt not
captured on PERSAL. Quality assures the completed and signed retirement
pack from the Employee retiring. Submit completed exit questionnaire to notify
Performance Management Development on resignation for intervention. Train
Office/District based employees on the completion of documents and the
termination policy for the following: Resignation. Contract expiry. Retirement.
Death. Misconduct. Ill Health retirement. Early retirement. Severance package.
Exit interviews. Provide a Human Resource advisory on conditions of services
to all departmental personnel. Support the collation of the appointment, leave,
exit and another transversal HR needs from the district/ client and respond
thereto. Facilitate information sharing sessions for all the personnel in the
Department. Compile monthly statistical reports and management reports.
Ensure effective, efficient supervision of staff. And coordinate the signing of job
descriptions. Conduct performance reviews. Assist in the provisioning of
stationery and office supplies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Raymond Makgopa Tel No: (011) 843 6676
POST 21/182 : CHIEF PROVISIONING ADMIN CLERK: ASSET CONTROL REF NO:
REFS/022882
Directorate: Asset and Inventory Management
Sub-directorate: Asset Control
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a minimum of 3-5 years’ experience in Assets/ Financial /Internal
Auditing and Supply Chain Management. Knowledge of Standard Charts of
Accounts (SCOA), IFRS and the PFMA. In-depth knowledge of the applicable
policies and systems, working of the relevant Acts prescripts, regulation, and
procedure pertaining to general administration such as finance, asset
management, Treasury Regulations, GRAP/GAAP. Knowledge of Supply
Chain Management (creating Requisition - RLS01 and Payment-RLS02).
Knowledge of an Asset Register in a Government Department, requirements
for Asset Register, Asset-life Cycle. Knowledge on BAS System and SAP
System. Sound Knowledge on the useful life of major assets and ensure that
policies and procedures related to movable assets are adhered to by regular
communication with asset stakeholders, managers, and heads. Must have
communication skill Verbal and Written, Numerical skills, Analytical skills, Time
Management skills, Critical thinking skills and Good interpersonal Skills. Ability
to interpret relevant directives of SCM which embodies Movable Asset
Management. A valid Drivers’ License is essential.
DUTIES : Complete and Accurate Asset Register i.e. Asset acquisition register
maintenance and verification. Identify, investigate, and report discrepancies
found during stocktaking done. Assess asset status, needs and risks. Conduct
Quarterly inventory count and stock count. Deal with all aspects of stock taking
for all GDE Movable Assets and other stores. Ensure the maintenance of the
inventory. Deal with the disposal of the redundant and obsolete movable
137
assets. Execution of asset control inspections. Implement GDE Movable Asset
Management Policies and Procedure Manuals. Provide advice to stakeholders
on related matters. Provide clerical support services for the sub-directorate.
Maintain the effective flow of information and documents internally and
externally. Maintain the safekeeping of all documentation in the office in line
with relevant legislation and policies. Participate in the collation and
compilation of progress reports and monthly reports. Respond to inquiries
received from internal and external stakeholders. Supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mathopi Khanye Tel No: (011) 355 1090
POST 21/183 : PRINCIPAL PERSONNEL OFFICER: ESTABLISHMENT CONTROL AND
SYSTEM REF NO: REFS/022842 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: HRTS
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a minimum of 3 years’ relevant experience in establishment
administration. Knowledge of PERSAL, Knowledge of CORE, Establishment
Control, Public Service Regulations, Collective Agreements, Basic Condition of
Employment Act and all relevant legislative framework that governs all HR
related policies and Procedures within Human Resource in the Public Sector.
Good Interpersonal skills and communications skills (Verbal and Written).
Administrative, Analytical and organizational skills, Project Management skills,
Conflict management, Supervisory Skills and computer literacy. Ability to work
under pressure and long hours during audit process. A valid driver’s license is
essential.
DUTIES : To effectively implement and administer organization and post establishment
administration services. Verify the correctness of post establishment changes
request. Establish control and monitoring mechanisms to ensure efficient and
effective implementation of post establishment. Generate and analyses reports
with regards to special THRS projects and other establishment administration
related functions. Ensure the implementation of all departmental Transversal
HR Policies, strategies and procedures to ensure adherence by Departmental
Personnel. Render an effective HR advisory service to management and
employees in the department. Ensure compliance with applicable legislation.
Supervise, approve post establishment transactions, provide training, manage
leave and assess the performance of subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Grace Majola Tel No: (011) 355 6823
POST 21/184 : PRINCIPAL PERSONNEL OFFICER: CONDITIONS OF SERVICES (X7
POSTS)
Sub- directorate: THRS
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Gauteng East District Ref No: REFS/022845
Ekurhuleni North District Ref No: REFS/022851
Johannesburg West District Ref No: REFS/022855
Johannesburg East District Ref No: REFS/022861
Johannesburg North District Ref No: REFS/022866
Johannesburg South District Ref No: REFS/022872
Johannesburg Central District Ref No: REFS/022874
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificates plus a minimum of 3-5 years’ relevant experience in the
HR working environment. Experience should include conditions of service,
appointments, terminations, leave, Pillar, IOD and salary adjustments.
Knowledge and understanding of Human Resource Management policies,
procedures, regulations, current legislations peculiar to education and public
service. Excellent communication (verbal and written) and interpersonal skills.
Ability to work under pressure, use of PERSAL and to provide advisory support
to business units. Computer literacy in MS Excel, MS Word MS Access and
MS outlook. Applicant must be in a possession of a South African valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Coordinate the provision of all personnel administration services on PERSAL.
Support implementation of appointments of PERSAL. Facilitate the processing
of Homeowners’ allowance. Facilitate the processing of resettlement and
relocation costs, medical aid, long services, pension benefits and payment of
leave gratuity. Facilitate the processing of overtime, transfers, debt
management, qualifications bonus, acting allowance and salary administration.
138
Provide support on directorates regarding leave management and update
leave register on PERSAL and Employment Self Service (ESS). Update of
resignation transactions on electronic database for tracking and the personnel
file. Approve/ Disapprove conditions of service transactions on PERSAL.
Support the implementation of termination transactions on PERSAL and
ensure current and update records on PERSAL. Advise GDF on debt not
captured on PERSAL. Quality assures the completed and signed retirement
pack from the Employee retiring. Submit completed exit questionnaire to notify
Performance Management Development on resignation for intervention. Train
Office/District based employees on the completion of documents and the
termination policy for the following: Resignation. Contract expiry. Retirement.
Death. Misconduct. Ill Health retirement. Early retirement. Severance package.
Exit interviews. Provide a Human Resource advisory on conditions of services
to all departmental personnel. Support the collation of the appointment, leave,
exit and another transversal HR needs from the district/ client and respond
thereto. Facilitate information sharing sessions for all the personnel in the
Department. Compile monthly statistical reports and management reports.
Ensure effective, efficient supervision of staff. And coordinate the signing of job
descriptions. Conduct performance reviews. Assist in the provisioning of
stationery and office supplies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Mpho Leotlela Tel No: (011) 736 0717 (GE District)
Ms Emily Mochela Tel No: (011) 746 8190 (EN District)
Mr Lizwe Jafta at 064 929 9493 (JW District)
Ms Elizabeth Moloko Tel No: (011)666 9109 (JE District)
Ms Nelisiwe Mashazi Tel No: (011) 694 9321 (JN District)
Ms Lola Malimagovha Tel No: (011) 247 5947 (JS District)
Mr Linda Mabutho Tel No: (011) 983 2231 (JC District)
POST 21/185 : CHIEF PROVISIONING ADMIN CLERK REF NO: REFS/022878
Sub Directorate: Finance & Administration
Unit: Provisioning and Administration
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Tshwane West District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with minimum of 3-5 years relevant clerical support experience.
Knowledge of Procurement directives (Supply chain management manual),
Treasury Regulations, PFMA, PPPFA, SASA and Assets Policy. Asset
management. Related administrative procedures, norms and standards.
Planning and organizing own work. Client services. Reporting procedures,
Computer literacy, interpersonal relations, and problem solving and conflict
resolution skills. Maintaining discipline. Good verbal and written
communication skills. A valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Monitor of School Municipal Accounts for Non-Section 21. Meet with the
Municipality/Eskom with regard to problems experienced with billing of
services, bail out etc. Monitor payment of services by None-S21 schools and
provide reports to the respective Supervisor. Receive invoices from
municipalities/Head Office for Non-S21 schools. Monitor payments made by
Head Office. Monitoring Schools Expenditure Section 21. Liaise with schools
regarding budget spending in terms of Section 21 function. Liaise with schools
regarding budget spending in terms of non-section 21 functions. Facilitate
Financial Management and Procurement procedures and policies to schools.
Ensure financial inspection is done at schools to ensure compliance to
Financial Regulation and Supply Chain regulations. Monitoring of Overdraft,
Loan, Investment and School Fee Compensations Applications Section 21.
Provide support in the implementation of policies and procedures regarding
overdrafts, loans, investments and school fee compensation applications.
Verify the correctness of the application forms with regard to the application for
school fee compensation, loan and investment. Forward applications to Head
Office for approval. Inform schools on the outcome of the application
submission. Supervise allocated staff. Provide training to staff on
administration procedures and processes. Ensure Performance management
is executed. Execute leave management policies and procedures. Check and
authorize the work of subordinates. Handle queries from internal and external
stakeholders. Provide clerical support to the Unit. Compile weekly reports.
Ensure filing of all reports in the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Priscilla Ravele Tel No: (012) 725 1451 (TW District)
139
POST 21/186 : CHIEF REGISTRY CLERK (X2 POSTS)
Sub Directorate: Finance & Administration
Unit: Office Service Pool
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Tshwane West District Ref No: REFS/022858
Johannesburg East District Ref No: REFS/022862
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a minimum of 3 -5 years relevant experience in Registry. A
relevant tertiary qualification will be an added advantage. Knowledge and
understanding of Record Management and Archive policies, procedures,
regulations. Excellent communication (verbal and written) and interpersonal
skills. Security consciousness/awareness. Ability to work under pressure, use
of PERSAL and MS Office software. A valid South African driver’s license is an
added advantage.
DUTIES : Supervise subordinates and registry activities in the unit. Supervise the
maintenance of filing plans according to regulatory framework. Control receipt,
opening and maintenance of files and documents. Update and maintain
records management and documents classification systems. Maintain safe
custody and protection of files and records. Identify files and records for
archiving. Allocate file reference numbers. Provide advice and guidance to
Registry Clerks on the day-to-day functions of the Registry. Maintain various
control registers. Responsible for the administration and supervision of all
registry procedures. Supervise performance management and training of
subordinate(s).
ENQUIRIES : Ms Priscilla Ravele Tel No: (012) 725 1451 (TW District)
Ms Elizabeth Moloko Tel No: (011) 666 9109 (JE District)
POST 21/187 : SENIOR LIBRARIAN (X2 POSTS)
Sub-directorate: Curriculum Management and Delivery
Section: LTSM
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Tshwane West District Ref No: REFS/022865
Gauteng West District Ref No: REFS/022869
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s degree or National Diploma in Library and Information Science
and 2 years’ experience as librarian. Knowledge of relevant Acts, regulations
and Batho Pele Principles. Computer skills including MS Word, MS PowerPoint
and MS Excel. Experience working with a computerized library management
system will be an advantage. Good verbal and written communication skills.
Ability to work under pressure. Time management skills. Problem solving skills.
Self-discipline, accuracy and consistency. Detail orientated LIASA membership
will be an advantage. Applicant must be in a possession of a South African
valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Collection development: establish user’s needs, acquire relevant library
resources Weed resources, undertake annual stocktaking, procure & renew
newspaper/journal subscriptions & library System license. Processing Library
Resources: physical processing of resources, cataloguing and classification,
capturing into the library System. Provisioning of library and Information
Services to District officials and school: user registration, information searchers
assist with courier service from Education Library, train library users.
Circulation of Library Resources: issues and returns, keep statistics of library
use, shelf control, sending out of reminders. Library Management &
Administration Support: Supervising Library Assistants, administration
assistance to the library Facilitator, monthly/quarterly reports and statistics.
Marketing the District Library: displays and exhibitions, current awareness
service, open library day.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Priscilla Ravele Tel No: (012) 725 1451 (TW District)
Ms Louisa Dhlamini Tel No: (011) 660 4581 (GW District)
POST 21/188 : CHIEF ADMIN CLERK (X2 POSTS)
Sub-Directorate: Transversal Human Resources Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg West District Ref No: REFS/022868
Tshwane North District Ref No: REFS/022871
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a minimum of 3-5 years’ relevant experience in Administrative
Support and Clerical Support. Clear knowledge and application of the Public
140
Service Act, Batho Pele Principles, Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of
BAS and LOGIS. Computer Literacy, planning and organizing, verbal and
written communication skills, supervisory skills and coping with Pressure. A
valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Supervise and render general office support services. Record, organise, store,
capture and retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers
and statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles. Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as
required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the component. Type basic
letters and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing register of the component. Render and supervise
procurement and asset management support services. Liaise with internal and
external stakeholders in relation to Procurement of goods and services. Obtain
quotations, complete procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office
items. Stock control of office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register
of the component (district offices). Supervise and provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component. Maintain a leave
register for the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation. Supervise
and provide financial administration support services in the component.
Capture and update expenditure in component. Check correctness of
subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval.
Handle telephone accounts and petty cash for the component. Supervise
human resources/staff. Allocate and ensure quality of work and Assess staff
performance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lizwe Jafta at (064) 929 9493 (JW District)
Ms Aluciah Malegopo Tel No: (012) 543 4313 (TN District)
POST 21/189 : CHIEF REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: REFS /022873
Sub-Directorate: Transversal Human Resources Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg South District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with a minimum of 3-5 years relevant registry support experience in
a Human Resource Registry. Knowledge and understanding of Record
Management and Archive policies, procedures, regulations. Excellent
communication (verbal and written) and interpersonal skills. Security
consciousness/awareness. Ability to work under pressure, use of PERSAL and
Ms Office software. A valid South African driver’s license is an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Supervise subordinates and registry activities in the unit. Supervise the
maintenance of filing plans according to regulatory framework. Supervise and
provide registry counter services. Handle incoming and outgoing
correspondence. Control receipt, opening and maintenance of files and
documents. Update and maintain records management and documents
classification systems. Maintain safe custody and protection of files and
records. Identify files and records for archiving. Allocate file reference numbers.
Provide advice and guidance to Registry Clerks on the day-to-day functions of
the Registry. Maintain various control registers. Responsible for the
administration and supervision of all registry procedures. Supervise
performance management and training of subordinate(s).
ENQUIRIES : Ms Lola Malimagovha Tel No: (011) 247 6947
POST 21/190 : HR PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCE POLICY AND PLANNING REF
NO: REFS/022870
Directorate: Organisational Development
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized 3-year National Diploma/Degree in Human
Resource Management/ Human Resource Development or Personnel
Management or Public Management majoring in HR / Industrial Psychology
plus a minimum of 1 year experience relevant experience in Human Policy and
Planning environment. Good computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel and MS
PowerPoint), planning, problem solving, verbal and written skills. Driver licence
is essential,
DUTIES : Assist in the development of human resource plan and reporting. Collect and
quality assure information for the preparation of MTEF HR Plan and Reporting.
141
Conduct Research on labour market trends and assist on the information
analysis in preparation of the HR Plan and reporting. Populate information on
the DPSA prescribed MTEF HR Planning template. Prepare graphs for MTEF
HR Plan, Annual HR Plan Implementation Report. Circulate the prescribed
DPSA assessment tool to panel members and relevant HR components for
completion. Consolidate information populated by panel members on the
prescribed DPSA template. Provide support in the development of HR Policies
and ensure alignment with legislative frameworks thereof. Provide advice on
HR policy and legislation matters to the relevant stakeholders. Provide support
on the development of HR Delegations of Authority and align with relevant
legislation. Provide information for monitoring and analyses of HR performance
against HR standards, HR strategies and objectives. Ensure effective and
efficient management of administrative duties within the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mpheng Mosala Tel No: (011) 843 6678
POST 21/191 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PROPERTY MANAGEMENT REF NO:
REFS/022867 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Infrastructure Planning and Property Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus 3-5 years’ experience in property environment. A Bachelor/B-
Tech/National Diploma in Real Estate/Town and Regional Planning/GIS will
serve as an added advantage. An understanding of PFMA/Treasury
Regulations; Prevention of Illegal Eviction from and Unlawful Occupation of
Land Act 19 of 1998; Government Immovable Asset Management Act 19 of
2007; Occupational Health and Safety Act 85 of 1993 and the South African
Schools Act 84 of 1996. Advanced computer skills that include ability to use
Excel and the Chief Surveyor General national cadastral survey management
system as well as various municipalities’ GIS systems. Good communication
skills. Self-motivated and goal orientated. Ability to work under pressure and in
a team. A valid Driver’s license.
DUTIES : Keep and update the Immovable Asset Register (IAR) of the GDE. Generate
property reports that may assist in rollout of Rehabilitation, Maintenance and
Refurbishment projects. Prepare requests for permission to occupy and build
(PTOB) to municipalities or developers. Assist in acquisition of properties and
lease management. Prepare mandates to the Gauteng Department of
Infrastructure Development (GDID) to assist with acquisition, rezoning,
consolidation, subdivision of sites and so forth. Assist districts with identification
of sites for schools including their support in rollout of mobile, self-build, and
satellite schools. Provide property information as may be required in Strategic
Briefs, Business Cases or Project list like erf/portion numbers, their sizes,
zoning or ownership. Verify and confirm GDE properties using various spatial
information systems like Chief Surveyor General (C-SG) national cadastral
survey management system, Google Earth, Windeed, municipalities GIS,
lapsis, 1map, etc. Contribute to a credible Infrastructure Asset Management
Plan (I-AMP) from property management point of view by providing information
relating to ELSOZ (erf, location, size, ownership and zoning) of properties as
drawn from the IAR. Assist in managing office buildings, ensuring compliance
with regulations. Assist in processing invoices, ensuring timely payments and
liaise with landlords and finance directorate. Assist the sub-directorate in
dealing with illegal occupation of GDE properties. Perform general property
management duties. Perform any other administrative duties that might be
assigned.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Neo Moatshe Tel No: (011) 843 6809
POST 21/192 : CHIEF ADMIN CLERK REF NO: REFS/022810 (X3 POSTS)
Directorate Examinations Management
Sub-directorate: Marking Process Unit
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with minimum of 3-5 years relevant experience. An understanding
Knowledge of Public Service Act, Batho Pele Principles, BAS, LOGIC and
Public Service Regulations. Good communication skills (verbal and written);
Computer literacy (MS Word, Power Point and Excel); Ability to attend to detail
and ensure the correctness of information; Ability to work under pressure;
142
Ability to work independently and meet deadlines. A valid driver’s license is
essential.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to the Directorate within the marking processes
unit. Ensuring effective liaison and communication with internal and external
stakeholders. Assisting with the budget and procurement for the sub-
directorate. Collect, control, capture and mop up all marking claim forms.
Undertake ad hoc assignments that may be assigned. Provide manual and
digital archival of examinations materials, including appointment of marking
personnel. Provide support regarding training, procurement and financial
administration. Supervise staff. Assist manager in compiling weekly and
monthly reports and have knowledge of PMDS processes and compile
composite records thereof. Compile submissions. Liaise with service providers
regarding examination related matters / material.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Harry Culling Tel No: (010) 601 8082
POST 21/193 : OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY PRACTITIONER REF NO:
REFS/022815
Directorate: Performance Management and Development
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized National Diploma / Degree in Environmental Health
or Safety Management. 1-2 years’ experience in the Occupational Health and
Safety field. The candidate must have extensive knowledge of Occupational
Health & Safety Act 85 of 1993, Public Finance Management Act 1 of 1999,
Compensation of Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act 130 of 1993, Disaster
Management Act 57 of 2002, and the EHW strategic Framework. The
candidate must have excellent communication and problem-solving skills. A
valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Coordinate, monitor, advice and render health and safety administration.
Monitor OHS compliance. Conduct OHS inspections and audits. Facilitate
prompt response and resolution of all faults identified. Monitor and support
districts compliance with OHS requirements. Coordinate OHS trainings and
awareness programme within the department. Monitor the functionality of the
OHS Committee. Ensure compliance of emergency equipment. Prepare and
implement the emergency/evacuation drills in the Department. Liaise with
facilities management to conduct building inspections. Attend to IOD matters
and develop incident register. Facilitate and coordinate the development of
occupational health and safety policies, procedures and guidelines.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Motshedisi Ramohloki Tel No (011) 843 6656
POST 21/194 : CHIEF ACCOUNTING CLERK (X3 POSTS)
Sub-Directorate: Financial and Administration
Unit: Finance and Procurement
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE Gauteng North District Ref No: REFS/022853
Johannesburg Central District Ref No: REFS/ 022848
Johannesburg East District Ref No: REFS/022849
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with Accounting as a passed subject and minimum of 3-5 years
clerical support experience in a finance environment. Knowledge of Treasury
Regulations, PFMA, procurement procedures and other legislative frameworks
applicable to the Public Sector. Knowledge of PERSAL, BAS, SAP and SRM.
Asset management. Reporting skills. Planning and organizing. Interpersonal
relations. Problem solving. Maintaining discipline. Conflict resolution.
Supervisory skills, Good interpersonal skills and communication skills (verbal
and written). Administrative, analytical and organizational skills. Computer
literacy (MS Excel, MS Word, MS Office). Share information with team
members. Ability to work under pressure and long hours during audit process.
A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Ensure adherence to PFMA, Treasury Instructions. Check and reconcile
payments. Ensure that losses and thefts are managed and reported
accordingly. Ensure that records of financial transactions are updated correctly.
Supervise, develop mentor junior staff. Provide statistical reports when
required. Function as team leaders for staff in Pay Office, Salary Office,
Cashier Office and Payment Office. Monitor payment on SRM and expenditure
on Bas reports. Monitor distribution of payroll control sheets and reconciliation
143
of payrolls against PERSAL. Monitor compliance with Petty Cash policy.
Monitor capturing of receipts and banking of state money is taking place.
Supervise Staff. Check and authorize the work of subordinates. Provide
weekly, monthly and quarterly reports. Give written feedback on queries –
internal and external. Attend office meetings. To Circuit Managers and Sub
Directorate Heads on the compliance of the submission of payroll reports to
the Pay Office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Matlhodi Moloto Tel No: (012) 846 3641 (GN District)
Ms. Elizabeth Moloko Tel No: (011) 666 9109 (JE District)
Ms. Linda Mabutho Tel No: (011) 983 2231 (JC District)
POST 21/195 : CHIEF PROVISIONING ADMIN CLERK (X2 POSTS)
Sub-directorate: Finance and Administration
Unit: Provisioning and Administration for Institution
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Tshwane South District Ref No: REFS/022860
Sedibeng West District Ref No: REFS/022864
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with minimum of 3-5 years relevant clerical support experience.
Knowledge of Procurement directives (Supply chain management manual),
Treasury Regulations, PFMA, PPPFA, SASA and Assets Policy. Asset
management. Related administrative procedures, norms and standards.
Planning and organizing own work. Client services. Reporting procedures,
Computer literacy, interpersonal relations, and problem solving and conflict
resolution skills. Maintaining discipline. Good verbal and written
communication skills. A valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Monitor of School Municipal Accounts for Non-Section 21. Meet with the
Municipality/Eskom with regard to problems experienced with billing of
services, bail out etc. Monitor payment of services by None-S21 schools and
provide reports to the respective Supervisor. Receive invoices from
municipalities/Head Office for Non-S21 schools. Monitor payments made by
Head Office. Monitoring Schools Expenditure Section 21. Liaise with schools
regarding budget spending in terms of Section 21 function. Liaise with schools
regarding budget spending in terms of Non-Section 21 functions. Facilitate
Financial Management and Procurement procedures and policies to schools.
Ensure financial inspection is done at schools to ensure compliance to
Financial Regulation and Supply Chain regulations. Monitoring of Overdraft,
Loan, Investment and School Fee Compensations Applications Section 21.
Provide support in the implementation of policies and procedures regarding
overdrafts, loans, investments and school fee compensation applications.
Verify the correctness of the application forms with regard to the application for
school fee compensation, loan and investment. Forward applications to Head
Office for approval. Inform schools on the outcome of the application
submission. Supervise allocated staff. Provide training to staff on
administration procedures and processes. Ensure Performance management
is executed. Execute leave management policies and procedures. Check and
authorize the work of subordinates. Handle queries from internal and external
stakeholders. Provide clerical support to the Unit. Compile weekly reports.
Ensure filing of all reports in the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Thabiso Mphosi Tel No: (012) 401 6434
Ms. Bertha Mlotshwa Tel No: (016) 594 9207
POST 21/196 : CHIEF PROVISIONING ADMIN CLERK: GOODS RECEIVED REF NO:
REFS/022817
Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a minimum of 3-5 years relevant clerical support experience.
Knowledge of SAP, SRM, IMS, BAS, PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Reference
Guide to any Relevant financial and legislative frameworks applicable in public
sector will be added as an advantage. Knowledge of Provisioning procedures
and other legislative frameworks applicable to the public finances. Leadership,
conflict resolution and communication skill (written and verbal). Proven
Computer Literacy training and extensive experience in Microsoft Excel,
Microsoft Word and Power Point and ability to work under pressure. A valid
driver’s license is essential.
144
DUTIES : Clearing of IMS Web-cycle report daily, Capturing supplier invoices/ Goods
Received Voucher into SRM/SAP accurately and within stipulated time to
enable the department to meet its commitment to pay service providers within
30 days, Ensure that Complete and accurate invoices are submitted and
evaluated for payment purpose on daily basis, Follow up returned/problems
RLS02 and invoices with the end-user, Make sure that all automated purchase
orders generate payments, Follow up Grvs and invoices till payment, Monthly
reconciliation of identified account/Creditors, Clearing of payment Exceptions
timeously, Clearing of EBT Rejections, Retrieve and submit audit documents
within stipulated period of time.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Organ Masala Tel No: (011) 355 1016
POST 21/197 : CHIEF ADMIN CLERK (X2 POSTS)
Sub- Directorate: Circuit Management and Support
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Sedibeng West District Ref No: REFS/022833
Johannesburg Central District Ref No: REFS/022836
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a minimum of 3-5 years’ relevant experience in Administrative
Support and Clerical Support. Clear knowledge and application of the Public
Service Act, Batho Pele Principles, Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of
BAS and LOGIS. Computer Literacy, planning and organizing, verbal and
written communication skills, supervisory skills and coping with Pressure. A
valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Supervise and render general office support services. Record, organise, store,
capture and retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers
and statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles. Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as
required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the component. Type basic
letters and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing register of the component. Render and supervise
procurement and asset management support services. Liaise with internal and
external stakeholders in relation to. Procurement of goods and services. Obtain
quotations, complete procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office
items. Stock control of office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register
of the component (district offices). Supervise and provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component. Maintain a leave
register for the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation. Supervise
and provide financial administration support services in the component.
Capture and update expenditure in component. Check correctness of
subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval.
Handle telephone accounts and petty cash for the component. Supervise
human resources/staff. Allocate and ensure quality of work and Assess staff
performance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Bertha Mlotshwa Tel No: (016) 594 9207 (SW District)
Mr Linda Mabutho Tel No: (011) 983 2231 (JC District)
POST 21/198 : CHIEF ADMIN CLERK REF NO: REFS/ 022822
Sub-Directorate: Information Systems & Strategic Planning
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg South District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a minimum of 3-5 years’ relevant experience in Administrative
Support and Clerical Support. Clear knowledge and application of the Public
Service Act, Batho Pele Principles, Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of
BAS and LOGIS. Computer Literacy, planning and organizing, verbal and
written communication skills, supervisory skills and coping with Pressure. A
valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Supervise and render general office support services. Record, organise, store,
capture and retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers
and statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles. Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as
required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the component. Type basic
letters and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing register of the component. Render and supervise
procurement and asset management support services. Liaise with internal and
external stakeholders in relation to. Procurement of goods and services. Obtain
145
quotations, complete procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office
items. Stock control of office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register
of the component (district offices). Supervise and provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component. Maintain a leave
register for the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation. Supervise
and provide financial administration support services in the component.
Capture and update expenditure in component. Check correctness of
subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval.
Handle telephone accounts and petty cash for the component. Supervise
human resources/staff. Allocate and ensure quality of work and Assess staff
performance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Lola Malimagovha Tel No: (011) 247 5947
POST 21/199 : CHIEF ADMIN CLERK REF NO: REFS/022809
Chief Directorate: Examination and Assessment
Sub-Directorate: Examination Financial Administration and Support Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a minimum of 3-5 years’ relevant experience in Administrative
Support and Clerical Support. Exposure to or previous working experience in
the examinations and assessment environment will be an added advantage.
Clear knowledge and application of the Public Service Act, Batho Pele
Principles, Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of BAS and LOGIS.
Computer Literacy, planning and organizing, verbal and written communication
skills, supervisory skills and coping with Pressure. A valid driver’s license is
essential.
DUTIES : Maintain oversight of administrative and operational functions within the Project
Management Office (PMO) to ensure alignment with departmental procedures
and timelines. Coordinate the preparation, formatting, and submission of
project documentation, meeting packs, reports, and activity calendars.
Oversee logistical arrangements for meetings, events, and official
engagements, including stakeholder coordination and support for internal and
external enquiries. Support planning and reporting processes by consolidating
inputs from directorates and districts, monitoring key deliverables, and
updating performance tracking tools. Draft, quality-assure, and distribute
meeting documentation, including agendas, minutes, action plans, and follow-
up correspondence for governance structures and working groups. Manage
office and records systems in compliance with departmental policies, ensuring
accessibility, audit readiness, and effective document control. Track and
compile risk and compliance data related to the examination business cycle
and maintain up-to-date registers and supporting documentation. Supervise
clerical and administrative personnel, allocate tasks, and monitor the quality
and timeliness of work outputs. Arrange travel and accommodation logistics,
manage petty cash and telephone accounts, and verify financial claims for
submission. Conduct performance reviews and support staff development to
maintain an efficient and accountable working environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Jermina Morailane Tel No: (010) 601 8038
POST 21/200 : CHIEF ADMIN CLERK (X3 POSTS)
Sub Directorate: Finance & Administration
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE Sedibeng West District Ref No: REFS/022824
Tshwane North District Ref No: REFS/022826
Gauteng West District Ref No: REFS/022828
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a minimum of 3-5 years’ relevant experience in Administrative
Support and Clerical Support. Clear knowledge and application of the Public
Service Act, Batho Pele Principles, Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of
BAS and LOGIS. Computer Literacy, planning and organizing, verbal and
written communication skills, supervisory skills and coping with Pressure. A
valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Supervise and render general office support services. Record, organise, store,
capture and retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers
and statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles. Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as
required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the component. Type basic
146
letters and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing register of the component. Render and supervise
procurement and asset management support services. Liaise with internal and
external stakeholders in relation to. Procurement of goods and services. Obtain
quotations, complete procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office
items. Stock control of office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register
of the component (district offices). Supervise and provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component. Maintain a leave
register for the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation. Supervise
and provide financial administration support services in the component.
Capture and update expenditure in component. Check correctness of
subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval.
Handle telephone accounts and petty cash for the component. Supervise
human resources/staff. Allocate and ensure quality of work and Assess staff
performance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Bertha Mlotshwa Tel No: (016) 594 9207 (SW District)
Ms Aluciah Malegopo Tel No: (012) 543 4313 (TN District)
Ms Louisa Dhlamini Tel No: (011) 660 4581 (GW District)
POST 21/201 : CHIEF ADMIN CLERK (X5 POSTS)
Sub-Directorate: Finance & Administration
Section: Provisioning & Administration for Institutions
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE Ekurhuleni South District Ref No: REFS/022847
Sedibeng West District Ref No: REFS/022852
Johannesburg West District Ref No: REFS/022856
Johannesburg East District Ref No: REFS/022859
Gauteng West District Ref No: REFS/022863
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a minimum of 3-5 years relevant clerical support experience.
Knowledge of Procurement directives (Supply chain management manual),
Treasury Regulations, PFMA, PPPFA, SASA and Assets Policy. Asset
management. Related administrative procedures, norms and standards.
Planning and organizing own work. Client services. Reporting procedures,
Computer literacy, interpersonal relations, problem solving and conflict
resolution skills. Maintaining discipline. Good verbal and written
communication skills. A driver’s license will be added advantage.
DUTIES : Monitor of School Municipal Accounts for Non-Section 21. Meet with the
Municipality/Eskom with regard to problems experienced with billing of
services, bail out etc. Monitor payment of services by None-S21 schools and
provide reports to the respective Supervisor. Receive invoices from
municipalities/Head Office for Non-S21 schools. Monitor payments made by
Head Office. Monitoring Schools Expenditure Section 21. Liaise with schools
regarding budget spending in terms of Section 21 function. Liaise with schools
regarding budget spending in terms of Non-Section 21 functions. Facilitate
Financial Management and Procurement procedures and policies to schools.
Ensure financial inspection is done at schools to ensure compliance to
Financial Regulation and Supply Chain regulations. Monitoring of Overdraft,
Loan, Investment and School Fee Compensations Applications Section 21.
Provide support in the implementation of policies and procedures regarding
overdrafts, loans, investments and school fee compensation applications.
Verify the correctness of the application forms with regard to the application for
school fee compensation, loan and investment. Forward applications to Head
Office for approval. Inform schools on the outcome of the application
submission. Supervise allocated staff. Provide training to staff on
administration procedures and processes. Ensure Performance management
is executed. Execute leave management policies and procedures. Check and
authorize the work of subordinates. Handle queries from internal and external
stakeholders. Provide clerical support to the Unit. Compile weekly reports.
Ensure filing of all reports in the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Sipho Zonele Tel No: (011) 389 6062 (ES District)
Ms. Bertha Mlotshwa Tel No: (016) 594 9207 (SW District)
Mr. Jafta Lizwe at 062 929 9493 (JW District)
Ms. Elizabeth Moloko Tel No: (011) 011 666 9109 (JE District)
Ms. Louisa Dhlamini Tel No: (011) 660 4581 (GW District)
147
POST 21/202 : CHIEF ADMIN CLERK: COLLECTIVE BARGAINING REF NO: REFS/022811
Directorate: Collective Bargaining
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a minimum of 3-5 years’ experience in a Clerical Support.
Knowledge of Public Service Act and Regulations, Batho Pele principles.
Knowledge of BAS, LOGIC. Good Verbal and written communication, Planning
and organisation and Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Supervise and render general office support services. Record, organise, store,
capture and retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers
and statistics. Make photocopies and receive or send facsimiles. Distribute
documents/packages to various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain
the filing system for the component. Keep and maintain the incoming and
outgoing register of the component. Render and supervise procurement and
asset management support services. Liaise with internal and external
stakeholders in relation to Procurement of goods and services. Stock control
of office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component
(district offices). Supervise and provide personnel administration clerical
support services within the component. Keep and maintain the attendance
register of the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation. Supervise
and provide financial administration support services in the component.
Capture and update expenditure in component. Handle telephone accounts
and petty cash for the component. Supervise human resources/staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ayanda Ngobeni at 071 474 6462
POST 21/203 : CHIEF REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: REFS/022814 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Auxiliary Services and Fleet Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a minimum of 3-5 years relevant experience in Registry.
Knowledge of Public Service Act, Registry procedures and practices, filling of
documents, Planning and organizing skill, electronic filing system and
Computer literacy, good Interpersonal and Communication skills.
DUTIES : Supervise and provide registry counter services. Attend to clients. Ensure that
received mail/files are registered. Handle incoming and outgoing
correspondence. Supervise the reception and receive all mail. Render an
effective filing and record management service. Open and close files according
to record classification system. Supervise the processing and process
documents for archiving and disposal. Develop and maintain a database of
clients/service providers. Supervise human resources/ staff. Allocate and
ensure quality of work. Assess staff performance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Salani Sadiki Tel No: (011) 355 0761
POST 21/204 : CHIEF ACCOUNTING CLERK: PAYMENT PROCESSING REF NO:
REFS/022816
Directorate: Financial Accounting
Sub- directorate: Payment Processing
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with Accounting as a passed subject plus a minimum of 3-5 years’
relevant experience in a Finance Environment. Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act. Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of Public Service Act and
Regulations. Knowledge of BAS, SAP and IMS. Public procurement
procedures and financial related policies. Computer literacy, Time
Management, Good verbal and written communication skills Planning and
organization and Good inter-personal relations. Applicant must be in a
possession of a South African valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Processing of supplier payments in accordance with regulatory framework and
internal processes. Validate completeness, accuracy and eligibility of invoices
submitted for payments before processing. Quality assures the correctness of
invoices routed to the system. Compile the payment runs and submit to
Provincial Treasury on a weekly basis. Financial reporting. Compile Accruals
report. Respond to Audit queries, Supplier queries and stakeholders’ queries.
Check on the system if there’s is any delays from finance side and find out from
148
the end-user reason for non-payment. Assist in getting the invoices paid by
preparing all the administration required. Perform an investigation on the
system to check for duplicate payments and start the debt take-on process for
any identified duplicate payments. Follow up on unprocessed transactions
older than 8 Hours. Monitor performance of staff and identify any poor
performance to address it effectively for improving team performance. Guide,
train and advice staff on all financial administration processes to enhance the
correct implementation of policies and practices. Compile and submit the work
plan, performance developments plan, Job description and performance
agreements of staff. Ensure proper utilization and safeguarding of assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Nonna Swanepoel Tel No: (011) 355 1102
POST 21/205 : CHIEF ADMIN CLERK: EXAMINATION INSTRUMENT DEVELOPMENT
AND RESOURCE BANK REF NO: REFS/022819
Directorate: Examination Management
Section: Quality Control
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a minimum of 3 years typing and administration experience. An
advanced computer course will be an added advantage. Knowledge of
examination procedures and guidelines, Government gazette no 31337,
Security protocol. Advanced Computer literate (Ms word and Communication
skills, Advanced Computer typing skills (typing speed of 45 words per minute),
Organising skills, Creative Thinking (Manipulate pictures, diagrams, maps,
large print) and Good Interpersonal Relations.
DUTIES : Format and type examination material. Accurately type, format, and proofread
examination materials such as question papers, answer sheets, and marking
guidelines, etc. Correlates the English version of Examination material with the
Afrikaans version. Update, classify and maintain the examination material.
Maintain digital and physical records of examination materials. Collaborate with
examination panels and maintain confidentiality. Support examination teams in
creating, updating, and revising examination materials as required. Provide
general administrative support.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Sivan Tandree at 083 241 5226
NOTE : Candidates will be subjected to a skills test.
POST 21/206 : CHIEF PROVISIONING ADMIN CLERK (X2 POSTS)
Sub Directorate: Finance & Administration
Unit: Provisioning and Administration for Institutions
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Gauteng East District Ref No: REFS/022827
Ekurhuleni North District Ref No: REFS/022829
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a minimum of 3-5 years relevant clerical support experience.
Knowledge of Procurement directives (Supply chain management manual),
Treasury Regulations, PFMA, PPPFA, SASA and Assets Policy. Asset
management. Related administrative procedures, norms and standards.
Planning and organizing own work. Client services. Reporting procedures,
Computer literacy, interpersonal relations, and problem solving and conflict
resolution skills. Maintaining discipline. Good verbal and written
communication skills. A valid driver’s license will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Monitor of School Municipal Accounts for Non-Section 21. Meet with the
Municipality/Eskom with regard to problems experienced with billing of
services, bail out etc. Monitor payment of services by None-S21 schools and
provide reports to the respective Supervisor. Receive invoices from
municipalities/Head Office for Non-S21 schools. Monitor payments made by
Head Office. Monitoring Schools Expenditure Section 21. Liaise with schools
regarding budget spending in terms of Section 21 function. Liaise with schools
regarding budget spending in terms of non-section 21 functions. Facilitate
Financial Management and Procurement procedures and policies to schools.
Ensure financial inspection is done at schools to ensure compliance to
Financial Regulation and Supply Chain regulations. Monitoring of Overdraft,
Loan, Investment and School Fee Compensations Applications Section 21.
Provide support in the implementation of policies and procedures regarding
overdrafts, loans, investments and school fee compensation applications.
Verify the correctness of the application forms with regard to the application for
149
school fee compensation, loan and investment. Forward applications to Head
Office for approval. Inform schools on the outcome of the application
submission. Supervise allocated staff. Provide training to staff on
administration procedures and processes. Ensure Performance management
is executed. Execute leave management policies and procedures. Check and
authorize the work of subordinates. Handle queries from internal and external
stakeholders. Provide clerical support to the Unit. Compile weekly reports.
Ensure filing of all reports in the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mpho Leotlela Tel No: (011) 736 0717 (GE District)
Ms. Emily Mochela Tel No: (011) 746 8190 (EN District)
POST 21/207 : CHIEF ADMIN CLERK: AUXILIARY SERVICES (X4 POSTS)
Sub Directorate: Finance & Administration
Unit: Office Service Pool
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg West District Ref No: REFS/022832
Gauteng East District Ref No: REFS/022837
Sedibeng West District Ref No: REFS/022839
Johannesburg Central District Ref No: REFS/022840
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a minimum of 3-5 years’ relevant experience in Administrative
Support and Clerical Support. Clear knowledge and application of the Public
Service Act, Batho Pele Principles, Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of
BAS and LOGIS. Computer Literacy, planning and organizing, verbal and
written communication skills, supervisory skills and coping with Pressure. A
valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Supervise and render general office support services. Record, organise, store,
capture and retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers
and statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles. Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as
required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the component. Type basic
letters and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing register of the component. Render and supervise
procurement and asset management support services. Liaise with internal and
external stakeholders in relation to. Procurement of goods and services. Obtain
quotations, complete procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office
items. Stock control of office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register
of the component (district offices). Supervise and provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component. Maintain a leave
register for the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation. Supervise
and provide financial administration support services in the component.
Capture and update expenditure in component. Check correctness of
subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval.
Handle telephone accounts and petty cash for the component. Supervise
human resources/staff. Allocate and ensure quality of work and Assess staff
performance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lizwe Jafta 064 929 9493 (JW District)
Ms Mpho Leotlela Tel No: (011) 736 0717 (GE District)
Ms Bertha Mlotshwa Tel No: (016) 594 9207 (SW District)
Mr Linda Mabutho Tel No: (011) 983 2231 (JC District)
POST 21/208 : CHIEF ADMIN CLERK REF NO: REFS/022834
Sub Directorate: Finance & Administration
Unit: Office Service Pool
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg West District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a minimum of 3-5 years’ relevant experience in Administrative
Support and Clerical Support. Clear knowledge and application of the Public
Service Act, Batho Pele Principles, Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of
BAS and LOGIS. Computer Literacy, planning and organizing, verbal and
written communication skills, supervisory skills and coping with Pressure. A
valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Supervise and render general office support services. Record, organise, store,
capture and retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers
and statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles. Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as
150
required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the component. Type basic
letters and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing register of the component. Render and supervise
procurement and asset management support services. Liaise with internal and
external stakeholders in relation to. Procurement of goods and services. Obtain
quotations, complete procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office
items. Stock control of office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register
of the component (district offices). Supervise and provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component. Maintain a leave
register for the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation. Supervise
and provide financial administration support services in the component.
Capture and update expenditure in component. Check correctness of
subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval.
Handle telephone accounts and petty cash for the component. Supervise
human resources/staff. Allocate and ensure quality of work and Assess staff
performance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lizwe Jafta at 064 929 9493
DEPARTMENT OF SPORT, ARTS, CULTURE AND RECREATION
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025 at 23:59 pm
NOTE : All attachments for online application via email must include an application form
Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the
correct job title in full as it is on the advert not abbreviations and the reference
number of the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email
address associated with the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot/Screenshot)
application will not be accepted. Failure to do so, your application will be
disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be
submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service
Department or on internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications
using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered.
Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own application form for
employment and must be fully completed, initialled and signed by the applicant
as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and sign the Z83 form will
lead to disqualification of the application during the selection process. All fields
of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G
(Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is acceptable for applicants to indicate
refer to CV or see attached. However, the question related to conditions that
prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must be answered and declaration
signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience
if any) and a completed and signed new Z83 application form is required. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from Human Resources and such qualification(s)
and other related document(s) will be in line with the requirements of the advert.
Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The
Department does not accept applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply
with the abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well as applications
received late will not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested
documents (new Z83 and CV) will result in the application not being
considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only.
Some shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as
part of the assessment method to determine the candidate’s suitability based
on the posts’ technical and generic requirements. If you have not been
contacted within three (03) months after the closing date of this advertisement,
based on the unfolding recruitment and selection processes, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). Please note by
responding to the advertisement, you consent to the collection, processing, and
storing of your Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your information will be used solely for the
purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with third parties without prior
consent unless required by law. The Department reserves the right not to make
any appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s). The successful candidate
151
will be required to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative action
employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform the
employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race,
gender and disability) through the filling of these post(s). Successful completion
of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela) is required before
the appointment can be made for Senior Management posts. Enrolment for the
course should be made on the NSG’s website at
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme suitably
qualified, dynamic, passionate, and experienced qualifying persons are invited
to apply for the vacant position.
OTHER POSTS
POST 21/209 : CHIEF ENGINEER: MECHANICAL REF NO: SACR/02/2025/06
Directorate: Infrastructure Development
SALARY : R1 266 450 – R2 388 657 per annum, (all inclusive-package), (OSD). The
Department will award a higher salary notch based on the experience of the
applicant.
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate plus a Degree in
Mechanical Engineering (NQF7) (B Eng / BSC (Eng)) or relevant qualification
as recognized by SAQA. Must be registered as a Professional Engineer with
ECSA. A Valid driver’s license. Computer literacy. Appropriate experience after
qualification has been obtained. Six (06) years’ experience post qualification.
Knowledge: Construction Industry Development Board Act of 2000 and
Regulations. All Best Practices Guides issued by the Construction Industry
Development Board. Council for Built Environment Act of 2000. PFMA/ DoRA/
Treasury Regulations, Practice Notes, Instructions, Circulars. Provincial/
Departmental Supply Chain Management Policies. Promotion of Access to
Information Act of 2000. Promotion of Administrative Justice Act of 2000.
DUTIES : Determine engineering functional and technical norms and standards in line
with nationality prescribed norms and standards. Apply engineering norms and
standards in terms of all projects. Validate that infrastructure projects
implemented by Implementing Agents comply with approved functional and
technical norms and standards including compliance to legal, safety and health
requirements. Update functional and technical norms and standards based on
learning generated through post project evaluations and post occupancy
evaluations. Develop policies, procedures and criteria for infrastructure
projects from an engineering perspective. prepare commissioning plans from
an engineering perspective. Undertake extensive analyses from an
engineering perspective to inform strategies related to the architectural
services to directly support and realize the goals of the Department. Develop
Project Initiation Reports, Strategic Briefs, Concept and Viability Reports or
sign of in the case of outsourced services. Provide engineering inputs to all AS
Built Plans. Provide engineering input for the End of Year Evaluation and
preparation of the End of Year Report. Provide engineering input with the User
Asset Management Plan. Make technical input on the finalization of the project
list. Assist with Technical Condition Assessments from an engineering
perspective. Develop Business Cases for projects. Determine document
management system requirements from an engineering perspective. Provide
engineering inputs to prepare the Infrastructure Programme management
Plan. Monitor the implementation of Programmes and Projects by the
Implementing Agent (IA) and the adherence to the Service Delivery Agreement.
Manage project implementation of projects that are not allocated to an
Implementation Agent (IA). Review and sign off on the Infrastructure
Programme Implementation Plan (IPIP) as prepared by the Implementation
Agent (IA). Review and recommend Variation Orders in terms of contract
management practice and financial implications. Recommend authorization of
payments in line with the conditions of the appointments, contract management
practices and within financial delegations. Develop and Approve Project Stage
reports and designs, in accordance with strategic decision-making points as
defined in the Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Framework (IDMS). Manage
the updating of project/ programme documentation and information and submit
all built environment documentation and financial documentation to the
Assistant Director: Finance. Manage the interface between the end-user/
152
community structures and Implementing Agent. Prepare and submit progress
reports (Financial and non-financial indicators). Coordinate and participate in
project commissioning, including site visits. Review the Maintenance Plans and
budget on completion of projects. Collect and update systems (if applicable) in
terms of Technical Condition Assessments. Orientate users I terms of optimal
usage of Facilities. Review infrastructure projects and programmes in line with
the built environment norms, standards and legislative requirements. Manage
and participate in Post Project Occupancy Evaluation exercises. Determine
functional and technical norms and standards that should be updated from an
architectural perspective. Participate in the continuous improvement of best
practices, standardized processes and procedures, software applications and
tools. Monitor that infrastructure projects are planned within available funds.
Monitor application of costs norms. Monitor expenditure on infrastructure
projects within budgets. Control cost and scope variances on infrastructure
projects. Provide credible information for the updating of the project
management system and the Infrastructure Reporting Model. Study
professional journals and publications to stay abreast of new developments.
Monitor and study the sector, legal frameworks, standard changes and policy
frameworks. Engage in relevant continuous professional development
activities (tools and techniques) as prescribed and/ or required. Interact with
relevant Professional Bodies/ Councils. Maintain discipline. Manage
performance and development of employees. Undertake human resources and
other related administrative functions. Establish and maintain effective and
efficient communication arrangements. Plan and allocate work. Develop and
implement processes to promote control of work. Implement quality control of
work delivered by employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ouwen Gaveni Tel No: (011) 355 2861 / 071 855 8934
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/210 : CHIEF ENGINEER: STRUCTURAL/CIVIL REF NO: SACR/02/2025/07
Directorate: Infrastructure Development
SALARY : R1 266 450 – R2 388 657 per annum, (all inclusive-package), (OSD). The
Department will award a higher salary notch based on the experience of the
applicant.
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate plus a Degree in
Structural/Civil Engineering (NQF7), B Eng/BSC(Eng) or relevant qualification.
Must be registered as a Professional Engineer with ECSA. 6 years’ experience
post qualification. A Valid Driver’s License. Skills: Strategic capability and
leadership. Problem solving and analysis. Creativity. Financial management.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication. Computer. People
management. Planning and organizing. Conflict management. Negotiation.
Change management. Programme and project management. Engineering
legal and operational compliance. Engineering operational communication.
Process knowledge and skills. Maintenance skills and knowledge. Engineering
principles. Mobile equipment and operating skills. Technical consulting.
Professional judgement. Research and Development. Creating a high-
performance culture. Knowledge: Public service Act of 1994 and Regulations
of 2001. Government Immovable Asset Management Act of 2007.
Occupational Health and Safety Act of 1993 and Regulations. Labour Relations
Act of 1995/ Resolutions of Public Sector bargaining Councils. Basic conditions
of Employment Act, 1997. Spatial Planning and Land Use Management Act,
2013. Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Management System. National
Environmental Management Act, 1998 and related protocols and Regulations.
PFMA/DORA/Treasury Regulations. Practice notes, instructions, Circulars.
Provincial, Departmental Supply Chain Management Policies. Construction
Industry Development Board act of 2000 and Regulations. Hazardous
Substances Act 15 of 1973. Occupational Health and Safety Act of 1993. Broad
Based Black Empowerment Act of 2003. Preferential Procurement Act of
2000and Regulations. Public service Act of 1994 and Regulations of 2001.
Promotion of Access to Information Act of 2000. Promotion of Administrative
Justice Act of 2000. Labour Relations Act of 1995/Resolutions of Public Sector
Bargaining Councils. Health Act and Regulations Act 61 of 2003. Engineering
Profession Act of 2000. Competency Standards for Construction Procurement
as issued by CIDB. Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations Act of 1997.
Intergovernmental Framework Act of 2005. Construction Industry Development
153
Board Act of 2000and Regulations. National Building Standards Act of 1977
and Regulations. Council for Built Environment Act of 2000. All different
contract options for infrastructure projects.
DUTIES : Provide support to prepare Project Business Cases, prepare the IFIP, allocate
projects and finalize procurement schedules. Develop and enforce standards
designs (where applicate and in Line with Educational designs) verify all
building plans. Manage procurement for construction projects in close
collaboration with departmental SCM. Manage implementation of projects,
including contract management, in line with budgets, timeframes and quality
standards. Prepare and present progress reports. Manage implementation of
condition assessments. Perform Final review and approvals of audits on new
engineering designs according to design principles or theory. Research the
needs of the sports, arts, culture and recreation sectors. Coordinate design
efforts and integration across disciplines to ensure seamless integration with
current technologies. Monitor current deployed technology. Pioneer new
engineering services. Manage the execution of maintenance strategy through
the provision of appropriate structures, systems and resources. Set
engineering maintenance standards, specifications and service levels
according to organizational objectives to ensure optimum operational
availability. Monitor maintenance efficiencies according to organizational goals
to direct or redirect engineering services for the attainment of organizational
objectives. Allocate, control, monitor, and report on all resources. Compile risk
logs and manage significant risk according to sound risk management practice
and organizational requirements. Provide technical consulting services for the
operation on engineering related matters to minimize possible engineering
risks. Manage and implement knowledge sharing initiatives e.g., short-term
assignments and secondments within and across operations, in support of
individual development plans, requirements and return on investment.
Facilitate the compilation of innovation proposals to ensure validity and
adherence to organizational principles. Allocate, control and monitor
expenditure according to budget to ensure efficient cash flow management.
Assist with the establishment of the statutory structures as required in terms of
the Act. Monitor OHS training interventions at all Health Facilities in terms of
equipment. Monitor training and related activities. Monitor safety audits.
Monitor waste management policies and procedures. Monitor effective
implementation of waste management and compliance with legislative
requirements. Ensure continuous professional development to keep up with
new technologies and procedures. Research on technical engineering
technology to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies and councils on
engineering-related matters. Undertake planning for future human resource
needs. Maintain discipline. Undertake human resources and other related
administrative functions. Establish and maintain effective and efficient
communication arrangements. Develop and implement processes to promote
control of work. Serve on transversal task teams as required. Implement quality
control of work delivered by employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ouwen Gaveni Tel No: (011) 355 2861 / 071 855 8934
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/211 : CHIEF ENGINEER: ELECTRICAL REF NO: SACR/02/2025/08
Directorate: Infrastructure Development
SALARY : R1 266 450 – R2 388 657 per annum, (all inclusive-package), (OSD). The
Department will award a higher salary notch based on the experience of the
applicant.
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate plus a Degree in
Electrical Engineering. (NQF 7), B Eng/BSC(Eng) or relevant qualification as
recognized by SAQA. Must be registered as a Professional Engineer with
ECSA. 6 years’ experience post qualification. A Valid Driver’s License. Skills:
Strategic capability and leadership. Problem solving and analysis. Creativity.
Financial management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
Computer. People management. Planning and organizing. Conflict
management. Negotiation. Change management. Programme and project
management. Engineering legal and operational compliance. Engineering
operational communication. Process knowledge and skills. Maintenance skills
and knowledge. Engineering principles. Mobile equipment and operating skills.
Technical consulting. Professional judgement. Research and Development.
154
Creating a high-performance culture. Knowledge: Public service Act of 1994
and Regulations of 2001. Government Immovable Asset Management Act of
2007. Occupational Health and Safety Act of 1993 and Regulations. Labour
Relations Act of 1995/ Resolutions of Public Sector bargaining Councils. Basic
conditions of Employment Act, 1997. Spatial Planning and Land Use
Management Act, 2013. Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Management
System. National Environmental Management Act, 1998 and related protocols
and Regulations. PFMA/DORA/Treasury Regulations. Practice notes,
instructions, Circulars. Provincial, Departmental Supply Chain Management
Policies. Construction Industry Development Board act of 2000 and
Regulations. Hazardous Substances Act 15 of 1973. Occupational Health and
Safety Act of 1993. Broad Based Black Empowerment Act of 2003. Preferential
Procurement Act of 2000and Regulations. Public service Act of 1994 and
Regulations of 2001. Promotion of Access to Information Act of 2000.
Promotion of Administrative Justice Act of 2000. Labour Relations Act of
1995/Resolutions of Public Sector Bargaining Councils. Health Act and
Regulations Act 61 of 2003. Engineering Profession Act of 2000. Competency
Standards for Construction Procurement as issued by CIDB.
Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations Act of 1997. Intergovernmental Framework
Act of 2005. Construction Industry Development Board Act of 2000and
Regulations. National Building Standards Act of 1977 and Regulations. Council
for Built Environment Act of 2000. All different contract options for infrastructure
projects.
DUTIES : Provide support to prepare IPMP, prepare the IPIP, allocate projects and
finalize procurement schedules. Develop and enforce standards designs and
verify all electrical layout plans. Prepare and present progress reports. Manage
implementation of electrical condition assessments. Perform Final review and
approvals of audits on new electrical engineering designs according to design
principles or theory. Research and guide regarding electrical engineering
needs of relevant Sports, Arts, Culture and Recreation projects. Monitor current
deployed technology. Manage execution of electrical maintenance strategy
through the provision of appropriate structures, systems and resources.
Compile risk logs and manage significant risk according to sound risk
management practice and organizational requirements. Provide technical
services for the operation on engineering related matters to minimize possible
engineering risks. Manage and implement knowledge sharing initiatives e.g.,
short-term assignments and secondments within and across operations, in
support of individual development plans, requirements and return on
investment. Monitor the exchange and protection of information between
operations and individuals to ensure effective knowledge management
according to departmental objectives. Manage the availability and
management of funds to meet the MTEF objectives within the electrical
engineering services. Facilitate the compilation of innovation proposals to
ensure validity and adherence to organizational principles. Allocate, control
and monitor expenditure according to budget to ensure efficient cash flow
management. Assist with the establishment of the statutory structures as
required in terms of the Act. Monitor OHS training interventions at all Sports,
Arts, Culture and Recreation Facilities in terms of functionality. Monitor training
and related activities. Monitor safety audits. Ensure continuous professional
development to keep up with new technologies and procedures. Research on
electrical engineering technology to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant
bodies and councils on engineering related matters. Undertake planning for
future human resource needs. Maintain discipline. Manage performance and
development of development employees. Establish and maintain effective and
efficient communication arrangements. Develop and manage the operational
plan. Plan and allocate work. Develop and implement processes to promote
control of work. Serve on transversal task teams as required. Implement quality
control of work delivered by employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ouwen Gaveni Tel No: (011) 355 2861 / 071 855 8934
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/212 : CHIEF ARCHITECT REF NO: SACR/02/2025/09
Directorate: Infrastructure Development
SALARY : R1 099 488 – R2 027 811 per annum, (All inclusive-package), (OSD). The
Department will award a higher salary notch based on the experience of the
applicant.
155
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate plus a B Degree
(NQF Level 7) in Architecture or relevant qualification as recognized by SAQA.
Certificate Course in infrastructure Delivery Management. Must be registered
with SACAP as a professional Architect. 6 years post qualification Architect
experience required. A Valid Driver’s License. Experience in Project
Management. Skills: Financial Management, Presentation, Communication,
Computer, Project Management, Leadership, Stakeholder relationship
management, Change management, Planning and Organizing, Human
Resource Management. Knowledge: Public Service Act of 1994 and
Regulations of 2001. Government Immovable Asset Management Act of 2007.
Occupational Health and safety Act of 1993 and Regulations. Labour Relations
Act of 1995/ Resolutions of Public Sector Bargaining Councils. Health Act,
Regulations and Guidelines. National Environmental Management Act of 1998.
Construction Industry Development Board Act of 2000 and Regulations.
Council for Built Environment Act of 2000. Architectural Profession Act 2000.
Quantity Surveying Profession Act of 2000. National Building Standards Act of
1977, regulations and Municipal Regulations.
DUTIES : Provide support to prepare Infrastructure Delivery Management Standard
(IDMS) deliverables. Develop and enforce standards designs for the sports,
arts, culture and recreation sectors. Verify all architectural concepts and final
plans. Manage implementation of projects, including contract management, in
line with budgets, timeframes and quality standards. Prepare and present
architectural progress reports. Manage implementation of building condition
assessments. Assess the feasibility of proposed projects. Provide technical
inputs for the formulation of the procurement strategy and the Infrastructure
Progamme Implementation Plan (IPMP). Provide input with the updating of the
Service Delivery Agreement. Validate that designs are in line with standardized
norms and standards. Perform final reviews and approvals or audits on
architectural designs according to design principles or theory. Coordinate
design efforts and integration across disciplines to promote seamless
integration with current technology. Validate buildings plan in line with National
and Local Government Building Regulations. Manage the execution of
architectural strategy through the provision of appropriate structures, systems,
and resources. Set architectural standards, specifications, and service levels.
Monitor and maintain efficiencies according to organizational goals to direct or
redirect architectural services for the attainment of organizational objectives.
Prepare technical documentation for Supply Chain Management processes.
Serve on the relevant Supply Chain Management Committees to make
technical inputs as a member of these Committees (if appointed). Undertake
site visits at agreed intervals to monitor performance. Review project progress
reports submitted and intervened as a when required. Review cost and scope
variations from an architectural perspective. Provide inputs to the setting of
standards for documentation from an architectural perspective. Document
warehouse. Monitor that As Built Plans are corrected and submitted before final
payments are made. Attend meetings with the implementing Agent (IA) and
relevant stakeholders to proactively identify problems and jointly agree on
solutions as defined in the Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Management
Framework (IDMS) from an architectural perspective. Study professional
journals and publications to stay abreast of new developments. Monitor and
study legal frameworks, standards changes and policy frameworks. Engage in
relevant continuous professional development activities (tools and techniques)
as prescribed and/or required. Apply findings research in the work
environment. Interact with relevant Professional Bodies/ Councils. Manage
training and development of personnel according to agreed training
interventions. Manage skills transfer between personnel and outside technical
assistants and/or consultants. Plan and allocate work responsibilities and
processes to control work performance including quality assurance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ouwen Gaveni Tel No: (011) 355 2861 / 071 855 8934
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/213 : TOWN REGIONAL PLANNER PRODUCTION REF NO: SACR/02/2025/10
Directorate: Infrastructure Development
SALARY : R761 157 – R1 144 008 per annum, (all-inclusive package), (OSD). The
Department will award a higher salary notch based on the experience of the
applicant.
156
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate plus a B Degree
(NQF Level 7) in Urban / Town and Regional Planning or relevant qualification.
The candidate should have registered with SACPLAN as a Professional Town
Planner. A minimum of 3 years’ relevant town planning experience post
qualification. Knowledge of the Framework of Infrastructure Delivery and
Procurement management. FIDPM. A valid drivers’ license.
DUTIES : Align town planning infrastructure modelling to the Departmental service plan.
Prepare inputs to project planning reports from a town planner perspective.
Prepare inputs to project execution plan as required as it relates to town
planning specific information. Provide inputs to the Infrastructure Programme
Management Plan (IPMP) and the Infrastructure Programme Implementation
Plan (IPIP) as it relates to town planning related issues within legislative
frameworks & norms. Validate the procurement plan as prepared by the
Custodian to assess that there is alignment between site acquisition and site
readiness. Coordinate site clearance in collaboration with the Custodian.
Provide inputs to procurement processes when required. Prepare inputs to
Medium, Annual and adjustment budgets from a town planning perspective.
Develop a ranking list/criterion starting with the neediest as part of the process
to eliminate backlogs aligned to the provincial spatial plan for infrastructure
delivery, Provincial Infrastructure Plan and Integrated Development Plan
(IDPs) of Municipalities. Determine town planning service level infrastructure
standards, spatial norms, service level norms and undertake comprehensive
spatial planning for infrastructure planning. Undertake spatial analysis and
modelling to support comprehensive infrastructure planning framework.
Identify suitable sites for infrastructure projects and undertake final validation
on suitability. Validate all aspects of town planning requirements for planned
infrastructure projects. Represent the Department at the different spatial
forums, for example the planning divisions to promote alignment between
health planning and broader provincial planning. Interact with the Custodian,
COGTA and related planning forums in the province to promote seamless and
integrated spatial planning. Make town planning inputs to prioritization
model(s). Make town planning inputs to the development of commissioning
plans. Make town planning inputs to the User Asset Management Plan. Make
inputs to the provincial functional norms and standards in line with nationally
prescribed functional norms and standards from a town planning perspective.
Make inputs into the technical norms and standards in line with nationally
prescribed technical norms and standards from a town planning perspective.
Make inputs to infrastructure policies from a town planning perspective.
Contribute to the updating of functional and technical norms and standards
updated based on learning generated through post project evaluations and
post occupancy evaluation from a town planning perspective. Contribute from
a town planning perspective to post project, post occupancy and end of the
year evaluations as well as preparation of reports. Study professionals and
publications to stay abreast of new developments. Monitor and study the health
sector, legal frameworks, standards changes and policy frameworks. Engage
in relevant continuous professional development activities (tools and
techniques) as prescribed and/or required. Update the infrastructure
comprehensive planning framework of Department in terms of research
findings, new technology and changes in the institutional environment. Interact
with relevant professional bodies/councils.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ouwen Gaveni Tel No: (011) 355 2861 / 071 855 8934
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/214 : GISC TECHNICIAN GRADE A REF NO: SACR/02/2025/11
Directorate: Infrastructure Development
SALARY : R391 671 – R586 665 per annum, (all-inclusive package), (OSD). The
Department will award a higher salary notch based on the experience of the
applicant.
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate plus a National
Diploma/ Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in GISc, Cartography or relevant
qualification. Compulsory registration with PLATO as a GISc Technician. 6-year
post qualification GISc Technician experience. A valid driver’s license.
Knowledge: Change Management, Project Management, Conflict
157
Management, Financial Management, People Management. Skills: Planning
and organizing, leadership, policy formulation, policy analysis.
DUTIES : To Geo-database implementation. Provide GISc to support institutional
decision, plan, coordinate and facilitate GISc projects activities. Undertake the
system requirements analysis, conduct the cost benefit analysis. Execute the
functional requirement analysis. Manage and supervise Benchmarking,
develop the conceptual database design, execute high level user requirement
analysis, develop processing model and workflow diagram, develop,
implement spatial and other standards, determine capacity requirements,
perform monitor and evaluate. Understanding of GIS applications and spatial
data, policy making and institutional strategic guidance, identify and
understand underlying strategic issues, identify and analyse relevant strategic
information, oversee the process of advance spatial analysis and modelling for
institutional strategic guidance, develop and evaluate alternative strategic
solutions, recommend the best possible policy direction, theory, principles, and
practices of GIS. Research, identify, investigate, and evaluate new
technologies, advise on research viability and feasibility, undertake
environmental scanning to understand the problems in the GISc industry and
advise accordingly, develop appropriate plan to respond to the research
problem, compile reports and make relevant proposals, participate and liaise
with relevant bodies and councils on GISc matters. Knowledge of GIS
standards. Project and Financial Management, manage human resource
requirements, draft tender documents and terms of reference, draft service
level agreements, determine project cost and quality level, develop
contingency plans, adhere to financial legislations and regulations, review and
monitor budget to ensure that the required financial procedures are adhered
to.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ouwen Gaveni Tel No: (011) 355 2861 / 071 855 8934
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/215 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (MR6) REF NO:
SACR/02/2025/12
Directorate: Legal Services
SALARY : R586 956 - R1 386 972 per annum, (all-inclusive package), (OSD). The
Department will award a higher salary notch based on the experience of the
applicant.
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate, four (4) year
Degree in Law (LLB/ B. Proc) (or as otherwise determined by the minister of
Justice and Constitutional Development). At least Eight (8) years appropriate
post qualification Legal Services experience (OSD). Knowledge: Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA). Treasury Regulations. Public Service
Regulations (PSR). Public Service Act (PSA). Promotion of administration
Justice Act (PAJA). Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA). Criminal
Procedure Act. Law of evidence. Constitutional law. Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa. Unemployment Insurance Contribution Act (UICA).
Unemployment Insurance Act (UIA). Labour Relations Act (LRA). Litigation
Procedures. Skills: Communication. Listening. Computer Literacy. Time
management. Report writing. Planning and organizing. Liaison. Diplomacy.
Policy Development. Report writing. Networking. Interviewing. Financial
management. Project Management. Strategic Planning. Negotiation.
DUTIES : Provide necessary and professional legal advice and support in the Fund.
Provide legal strategies direction to obtain maximum impact on the Fund’s
service delivery. Draft, review and amend legislation, policies, regulations,
contracts, memoranda of understanding, service level agreements and other
legal bidding documents for the Fund. Facilitate the promotion of an effective
relationship and with all stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ouwen Gaveni Tel No: (011) 355 2861 / 071 855 8934
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/216 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CREATIVE ARTS REF NO: SACR/02/2025/13
Directorate: Creative Arts
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : South Corridor Region: A, B & C
158
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 certificate plus a 3-year
tertiary qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) in Art
Management / Creative Arts / Fine Arts / Arts Craft and design / Arts and Culture
Development Management or relevant qualification as recognized by SAQA. A
minimum of 3-5 years’ relevant experience as an assistant director / middle
management position. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge: A good knowledge
and understanding of the principles, policies and best practice applications for
creative arts administration and management. An understanding of community
arts management. Skills: Strategic planning; Policy analysis and development;
Planning and organizing; Decision making; Project management;
Communication; Computer literate; Interpersonal relations, budgeting and
supply chain management.
DUTIES : Develop, review and implement policies; Manage planning, development,
coordination of arts and culture programmes in the corridors; Monitor
compliance with legislative requirements, policies and procedures and Grants-
in-Aid; Monitor the promotion of creative arts in the Corridors; Create enabling
environment for local and provincial programs. Nurture and develop talent;
Manage the strategic objective of creative arts in communities; Host and retain
major cultural events in the province; Cultivate, facilitate and promote a
conducive environment which allow Gauteng to excel in creative arts; Manage
the promotion of social cohesion, nation building and national identity in the
province.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Vivien Khanye Tel No: (011) 355 2720
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecSouth@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/217 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SPORT AND RECREATION (X4 POSTS)
Directorate: Sport and Recreation
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : South Corridor, Region A, B & C Ref No: SACR/02/2025/14
West Corridor, Region A & B Ref No: SACR/02/2025/15
North Corridor, Region A, E & F Ref No: SACR/02/2025/16
Central Corridor Region A & E Ref No: SACR/02/2025/17
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 certificate plus a 3-year
tertiary qualification, Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) in Sport
Management/ Sport Science/ Sport and Recreation/ Sports Development /
Health Science in Sport or relevant qualification as recognized by SAQA. A
minimum of 3-5 years’ relevant experience as an assistant director / middle
management position within the Sport and Recreation environment. A valid
driver’s license. Skills: Strategic planning; Policy analysis and development;
Planning and Organizing; Decision making; Project management;
Communication; Computer literacy; Interpersonal relations; problem solving;
conflict resolution; budgeting and supply chain management.
DUTIES : Develop, review and implement policies; Manage, planning, development,
coordination of Sport and Recreation programmes in the corridors; Monitor
compliance with legislative requirements, policies and procedures and Grant-
in-Aids; Monitor the promotion of sport and recreation at the corridors; Create
an enabling environment for local and provincial programs to be implemented;
Identify and develop talent. Host sport and recreational events at corridor and
provincial level. Manage risks, audit findings, deliverology and APP targets.
Coordinate budget control and management of expenditure. Management and
development of personnel. Coordinate intergovernmental projects, stakeholder
management. Coordinate research and impact studies. Assist in the promotion
of social cohesion, nation building and national identity in the province.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Vivien Khanye Tel No: (011) 355 2720 (South Corridor)
Mr. Nkhumeleni Magadze Tel No: (011) 355 2615 (West Corridor)
Mr. Bongani Mkhwebane Tel No: (011) 355 2539 (North Corridor)
Ms. Cynthia Mabaso Tel No: (011) 355 2714 (Central Corridor)
APPLICATIONS : South Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACR.RecSouth@gauteng.gov.za
West Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACRWestCorridor@gauteng.gov.za
North Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACR.RecNorth@gauteng.gov.za
Central Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACR.RecCentral@gauteng.gov.za
159
POST 21/218 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EXECUTIVE SUPPORT REF NO: SACR/02/2025/18
Directorate: Office of the Head of Department
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate plus a plus a 3-
year tertiary qualification, Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) in
Business Administration/Public Administration/Social Science / Office
Management or relevant qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of
3-5 years’ relevant experience as an assistant director / middle management
position. A valid driver’s license. Skills: decision making. analytical skills.
Negotiation. financial management, planning and direction, people
management, problem solving, good verbal and written communication,
computer literacy, stakeholder and partnership management. Report writing,
Knowledge: Public Service regulations.
DUTIES : The scope of this position will include but not be limited to providing efficient
and cost-effective administration, communications, and logistic services to the
Head of Department. Oversee and coordinate the administrative staff and
provide overall administrative support to the Head of Department. Coordinate
and facilitate efficient and effective secretarial service to internal meetings of
the Head of Department. Monitor, track, and coordinate decisions taken at
meetings. Maintain effective database systems for minutes and resolutions.
Develop systems and procedures to ensure effective and efficient
management of the flow of documents to and from the Office of the Head of
Department. Manage the budget, procurement of goods and services, and
inventory of the Office of the Head of Department. Compile submissions,
memoranda, reports, and letters. Manage the staff and administration function
in the Executive Support and Administration Services Directorate to ensure the
efficient attainment of objectives. Manage and maintain a system of protection
of information within the office of the Head of Department (HOD). Liaise with
internal and external stakeholders. Coordinate and consolidate Executive
Council (EXCO) reports. Manage the coordination and consolidate the
responses to legislative reports to ensure compliance with external bodies.
Develop and maintain a system that will ensure efficient and effective
operations in the office of the HOD.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/219 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SOCIAL COHESION REF NO: SACR/02/2025/19
Directorate: Intergovernmental Relations
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma at (NQF level 6/7) in Public
Relation, Public Administration or relevant qualification as recognized by
SAQA. A minimum of 3-5 years’ relevant experience as an assistant director /
middle management position. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge: DPSA
Legislation and Procedures, HR prescripts including delegations, SACR
mandate, vision, mission and values and SACR governance and functions.
Skills: Interpersonal, Relationship management, Technical Analytic skills,
Technical Analytic skills and Management of projects.
DUTIES : Manage coaching, discipline and mentoring of staff to improve performance.
Provide input in drafting of budget in the section. Control and monitor the sub-
directorate budget and expenditure. Coordinate the compilation of various
reports and statistics for the unit. Management of performance and
development of staff and ensure assessment of their performance. Undertake
Human Resource and other related administrative functions. Develop
implement and maintain processes to ensure proper control of work.
Procurement and asset management for the sub directorate. Manage leave of
sub-directorate. Plan and allocate work. Organize public events and related
advocacy activities in line with the overall advocacy strategy. Establish and
maintain good working relationships with key provincial and local government
departments, municipal managers and word councilors to secure buy-in and
ownership of the project. Liaise with stakeholders and secure sponsorship of
the social cohesion projects. Organize public events and related advocacy
activities in line with the overall advocacy strategy. Establish and maintain good
160
working relationships with key provincial and local government departments,
municipal managers and word councilors to secure buy-in and ownership of
the project. Liaise with stakeholders and secure sponsorship of the social
cohesion projects.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/220 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ACADEMIES REF NO: SACR/02/2025/20
Directorate: Sport Development
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF Level 6 / 7) in Sport
Management / Sport Science / Sport Administration or relevant qualification as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3-5 years’ relevant experience as an
assistant director / middle management position. A valid Driver’s license.
Knowledge: Change Management, Project Management, Conflict
Management, Financial Management, People Management skills: Planning,
organizing, Leadership, Policy formulation and Policy analysis.
DUTIES : Review and understand the Departmental vision and Mission. In conjunction
with stakeholders Determine strategic goals, objectives (HR strategic plan).
Conduct SWOT analysis. Develop strategic measures, performance targets,
and appropriate timeframes. Determine operational goals and objectives.
Develop operational measures, performance targets, and appropriate
timeframes. Develop business proposition and plan as well as well as a service
level agreement. Develop communication and implementation plans. Measure
performance on continuous basis and develop and implement corrective
actions. Identify strategic partners. Manage business relationship through
regular performance assessments of services delivered (based on SLA), and
development of corrective actions where performance gaps exist. Provide
strategic direction, approval of transactions/activities and guidance to the unit
team responsible for operationalising policy and procedure development,
administration, project management, information utilisation, communication.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/221 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROCUREMENT REF NO: SACR/02/2025/21
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF 6/7) in Supply
Chain/Purchases/Logistics/Procurement Management/Commerce or relevant
qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3-5 years’ relevant
experience as an assistant director / middle management position. A valid
driver’s license. Knowledge: in Project Management, People Management,
Financial Management and Conflict Management. Procedures, Processes,
Compliance Management, Customer Relationship Management, Risk
Management and Fund Governance, Budgeting and Financial Management,
Customer Service (Batho Pele Principles), Technical Knowledge, Public
Service Act, Public Finance Management Act, National Treasury Regulations,
Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment, Preferential Procurement Policy
Framework Skills: Required Technical Proficiency, Business Writing,
Communication (verbal and written), Customer Focus and Responsiveness,
People and Performance Management, Diversity Management, Interpersonal,
Conflict management, Problem solving and decision making, Team
Leadership, Planning and organizing, Leadership, Negotiation and Influencing.
DUTIES : Management of performance and development. Undertake Human Resource
and other related administrative functions. Establish implementation and
maintain efficient and effective communication arrangements. Develop and
manage the operational plan of the sub-directorate and report on progress as
required. Develop implement and maintain processes to ensure proper control
of work. Compile and submit all required administrative reports. Serve on
transverse task teams as required. Procurement and asset management for
161
the sub directorate. Plan and allocate work. Quality control of work delivered
by employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/222 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO: SACR/02/2025/22
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF 6/7) in Financial
Management/ Financial Accounting/ accounting / Supply Chain Management
or relevant qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3-5 years’
relevant experience as an assistant director / middle management position in
financial / asset environment. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Public
Service Regulation (PSR). Public Service ACT (PSA). Public Financial
Management Act (PFMA). Project Management. Asset management. Skills:
Communication both verbal and written, Analytical, Report-writing, Research,
Computer literacy (MS Teams), Planning and organization.
DUTIES : Design and develop asset management systems, policies, perform strategic
and annual physical asset management planning, establish the asset
management capability of the department. Monitor and review the capturing of
all physical (moveable and immoveable) assets in the physical asset
management registers. Monitor and review the allocation of assets to asset
holders. Oversee and review the monitoring of assets in accordance with the
relevant policy and procedures. Management of performance and
development. Undertake Human Resource and other related administrative
functions. Establish implementation and maintain efficient and effective
communication arrangements. Develop and manage the operational plan of
the sub-directorate and report on progress as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/223 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INDIGENOUS KNOWLEDGE SYSTEMS REF NO:
SACR/02/2025/23
Directorate: Heritage, language, Geographical Names, Museums, and
Indigenous Knowledge Systems
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF 6/7) in Arts, Culture or
Humanities relevant qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3-5
years’ relevant experience as an assistant director / middle management
position in Heritage, Arts and Culture administration experience. A valid driver’s
license. Knowledge: Public Service Regulation (PSR). Public Service ACT
(PSA). Public Financial Management Act (PFMA). Project Management. Asset
management. Skills: Communication both verbal and written, Analytical,
Report-writing, Research, Computer literacy (MS Teams), Planning and
Organization.
DUTIES : Facilitating the implementation of projects and objectives of the sub-
directorate. Initiate programmes with external stakeholders/entities in
promoting Indigenous Knowledge Systems. Plan and attend sub-directorate
meetings. Develop concept documents, theme and submit them for approval
and implementation. Respond to parliamentary questions and other public
queries. Develop a database and analysis of the data collected. Develop
Service Level Agreement for service providers.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/224 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TRANSFORMATION PROGRAMMES REF NO:
SACR/02/2025/24
Directorate: Transformation Programmes
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
162
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF 6/7) in Gender and
Sexuality Studies/Public Administration/Public Management/Social/Human
Science as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3-5 years’ relevant experience
as an assistant director / middle management position. A valid driver’s license.
Knowledge: Public Service Regulation (PSR). Public Service ACT (PSA).
Public Financial Management Act (PFMA). Project Management. Asset
management. Skills: Communication both verbal and written, Analytical,
Report-writing, Research, Computer literacy (MS Teams), Planning and
organization.
DUTIES : Review and understand transformation vision and mission. In conjunction with
stakeholders: Assist to develop transformational policies, programmes and
strategies and monitor the implementation thereof. Conduct research, develop
internal systems and maintain baseline information on beneficiaries and
services offered. Attend and administer forums and engage stakeholders on
the promotion and implementation of programmes and projects. Engage tools
to monitor, evaluate and report on the attainment of policies, programmes,
strategies and set departmental targets. Administer and report on impact
assessments and report thereon. Develop communication and implementation
plan. Measure performance on a continuous basis and develop and implement
corrective actions. Identify strategic partners. Develop business propositions
and plan as well as a service level agreement. Manage business relationship
through regular performance assessments of transformation services delivered
and development of corrective actions where performance gaps exist.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/225 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MARKETING & EVENTS MANAGEMENT REF
NO: SACR/02/2025/25
Directorate: Marketing & Events Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF 6/7) in Communications/
Marketing/Public Relations and Events Management or relevant qualification
as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3 - 5 years’ experience in marketing &
events at a supervisory level. A valid driver’s license. Skills: Branding
Management, Branding Principles, Communication, Computer Literacy,
Analytical, Interpersonal, Report writing, Planning and Organizing,
Presentation, Project Management, Analytical and innovative thinking,
Attention to detail, Negotiation.
DUTIES : Coordinate annual events management strategy. Registering of all
departmental events. Develop, present and implement some of the approved
concept plans for all departmental events. Coordinate and implement all
approved departmental events. Coordinate and implement consolidated
departmental events calendar liaising with provider and internal stakeholders
on branding requirements for each event. Ensure effective financial
management for departmental events Develop Branding and promote
corporate identify. Conduct and facilitate effective marketing campaigns.
Ensure that the Department communique meet required branding. Provide
Publication and photojournalism services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/226 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION REF NO:
SACR/02/2025/26
Directorate: Human Capital Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate plus a 3-year
tertiary qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) in
Human Resource Management/Human Resources Administration/Human
Resource Development or Training or relevant qualification as recognized by
SAQA. A minimum of 3-5 years’ experience in recruitment and selection at
supervisory level. Valid Driver’s License. Skills: Planning and Organizing,
163
Leadership, problem solving, diversity awareness, communication, analytical,
initiative, innovation/ continuous improvement, Negotiation and influencing.
Knowledge: Knowledge and understanding of Project management, People
management, Financial Management, Conflict Management, GPG policies and
procedures, Relevant legislation and public services regulations,
understanding of expectations of customers, knowledge of contracts,
management information knowledge, project management methodologies.
Understanding of Transformation, Modernization and Re-industrializing the
service delivery.
DUTIES : Administer recruitment, selection and appointment of employees. Conduct
audits to ascertain future shortages of critical expertise based on resignations,
pending retirements, medium-term anticipated retirements and identified areas
of scarce skills. Compile a human Resources forecasting and planning report
based on audit and including Gap identification and action plan. Assist with the
compilation of a recruitment plan. Assist with compilation of a detailed
recruitment operational plan. Identify and collate all jobs to be evaluated and
facilitate the evaluation of jobs to be advertised. Define and design a
systematic recruitment process in line with DPSA legislation. Facilitate training
of all staff and management in new recruitment processes and systems.
Determine valid selection criteria and apply these consistently. Design and
compile competency-based interview questionnaires in consultation with
management. Ensure adherence to approved and authorized structures in
identifying resource gaps. Assist in monthly, quarterly, annual management
reporting on recruitment progress. Provide leadership and guidance to the
recruitment team. Draft all recruitment related memorandums (including
requests to advertise and create posts additional to the structure amongst
others). Liaise directly with organizational development to obtain an update job
description. Draft adverts using the updated job descriptions. Place adverts in
the newspapers and local internet in line with DPSA regulation. Response
handling including shortlisting in line with DPSA regulations. Design and
compile interview questions. Arrange, coordinate and facilitate the interview
process. Compile and submit interview results for approval to the designated
authority. Communicate decisions of interviews to the applicants.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/227 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
SACR/02/2025/27
Directorate: Human Capital Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) in Human
Resource Management/Human Resources Administration/Human Resource
Development or Training. Introduction to PERSAL certificate will be an added
advantage. A minimum of 3 – 5 years’ experience in Performance Management
at supervisory level. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge: GPG and SACR
policies and procedures, Relevant legislation and Public Service Regulations,
Understanding of expectations of customers, Knowledge of Contracts,
Management information knowledge, Project management methodologies.
Skills: Problem solving, Diversity awareness, Communication, Analytical,
Initiative and Innovation/ continuous improvement skills.
DUTIES : Develop, manage, and monitor the implementation of performance
management systems. Coordinate and administer performance management
system. Management of Performance assessments and incentive systems.
Coordinate in the management and monitoring of the Performance
Management and Development System. Monitor Performance Management
Development System Implementation within the Department. Ensure
compliance by rendering a quality assurance service. Provide advice on
Performance Management Development System within the Department.
Render training on the Performance Management Development System to
staff. Conduct impact analysis and report on status of Performance
Management in the Department. Provide advice and guidance to Management
and staff on Performance Management Development System and employee
development. Develop, implement, and maintain PMDS electronic system.
Establish and maintain relationships with internal clients. Coordinate the
164
implementation of PMDS policy and procedures. Advise management and
staff on the implementation of PMDS Policy. Advocacy campaigns conducted
on PMDS Policy and Procedures annually. Provide advice and guidance to
management and staff on Performance Management Development System
and employee development. Ensure that PMDS presentations are prepared
when required by management. Implement training to all employees in the
department regarding PMDS matters. Facilitate training on PMDS Policy for
Non-SMS. Facilitate training for SMS members in line with Chapter 4 of the
SMS handbook. Draft and communicate performance management timelines.
Manage the issuing of non-compliance letters. Coordinate final assessment
signed for previous year. Coordinate signed compliance performance
contracts. Coordinate compliance of quarterly reviews. Coordinate compliance
final assessment finalised. Coordinate the issuing of non-compliance letters.
Coordinate the departmental PMDS coordinators committee meetings. Fully
functional PMDS coordinators committee with clear roles and responsibilities.
Committee trained on implementation of PMDS policy to implement policy
effectively and efficiently. Arrange quarterly meetings to plan and report on all
PMDS matters. Coordinate the implementation of e-PMDS. Convening task
team meetings. Providing reporting lines to GDF. Creating awareness of e-
PMDS within the Department. Organising trainings for GDSACR employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/228 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS REF NO:
SACR/02/2025/28
Directorate: Human Capital Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF level 6/7) in Human
Resources Management / Labour Law / Labour Relations. Introduction to
PERSAL certificate will be an added advantage. A minimum of 3 – 5 years'
experience in Labour Relations at supervisory level. A valid driver’s license.
Knowledge: GPG and SACR policies and procedures, Relevant legislation and
Public Service Regulations, Understanding of expectations of customers,
Management information knowledge and Project management methodologies.
Skills: Problem solving, Diversity awareness, Communication, Analytical,
Initiative and Innovation/ continuous improvement skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate the development of Departmental Labour Relations. Facilitate
collective bargaining and dispute resolution processes. Facilitate disciplinary
processes. Facilitate consultation and negotiations processes. The monitoring
of implementation of arbitration awards and collective agreements. Finalise all
grievances and complaints received from employees in the Department.
Receive, record, and analyse grievances in the Department. Conduct
investigation on lodged grievances. Refer grievances to the Public Service
Commission (PSC) in line with the rules. Process and finalising all misconduct
cases in the Department. Analyse and monitor record of misconduct cases in
the Department. Monitor coordination of information regarding misconduct.
Implement case management system to monitor progress on cases. Scrutinize
all reports and requests to charge employees with allegations of misconduct.
Obtain information required to draft charges of misconduct and serve charge
sheets to employees. Monitor the process of misconduct to ensure that the
Department maintains procedural and substantive fairness in the handling of
misconduct cases. Develop and manage information all records of all activities
in the Employment Relations section. Develop databases for all processes and
procedures in the Employee Relations section. Develop and manage the
proper movement of documents. People development and management.
Ensure the development and management of staff within the sub-directorate in
terms of performance agreement, performance assessment and advice on
career path. Monitor staff regarding human resource such as leave,
recruitment, and grievances.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
165
POST 21/229 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: VISUAL ARTS CRAFT & DESIGN INDUSTRIES
REF NO: SACR/02/2025/29
Directorate: Creative Industries
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 certificate. A 3-year tertiary
Qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF 6/7) in Arts, Heritage,
Cultural Science or relevant qualification as recognized by SAQA. Minimum of
3-5 Years experience at supervisory level. Management practices. Valid
driver’s license (code B/A). Knowledge: Basic financial procedures that must
be followed during (e.g., receiving funds) payments on behalf of the State.
Financial regulations and instructions which must be followed during the
normal course of work. That could include matters such as assisting in the
budgeting process/compiling a small budget. How to execute overall control of
budgets of sections/projects/ components. Financial management practices
that could be followed to limit financial losses. Skills: organizing ability to
operate computer (both hardware and software), Problem solving,
Interpersonal relationship, Conflict resolution, Project management, Policy
analysis and development and Policy/objectives formulation.
DUTIES : Identify policy and legislation issues. Record implementation of programs and
projects. Provide input into the compilation of the strategic and operational
plans for the sub directorate. Facilitate interaction with all stakeholders in the
sectors. Keep records on development in the sectors.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/230 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CREATIVE CLUSTER REF NO: SACR/02/2025/30
Directorate: Creative Arts
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF 6/7) in Art Management,
Heritage, Cultural Science, Creative Arts, Fine Arts or relevant qualification as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3-5 years Supervisory level experience.
Valid driver’s license. Skills: Planning and organizing. Leadership. Policy
formulation. Policy analysis. Knowledge: Change Management. Project
Management. Conflict Management. Financial Management. People
Management.
DUTIES : Facilitate the planning, development, and coordination of arts and culture
programmes. Monitor compliance with legislative requirements, policies and
procedures and Grants-In-Aid. To report on the program successes,
challenges, and finances. Ensure participation of communities, stakeholders,
and volunteers in the programs. Conduct appraisals. Convene joint meetings
with local government for planning purposes. Convene regional meetings.
Assist in ensuring the measurable output is achieved. Develop the operational
plans. Liaise with local government and other relevant stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/231 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CREATIVE COMMUNITIES REF NO:
SACR/02/2025/31
Directorate: Creative Arts
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF 6/7) in Art Management,
Heritage, Cultural Science, Creative Arts, Fine Arts or relevant qualification as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum 3 – 5 years at Supervisory level experience
in the relevant field. Valid driver’s license. Skills: Strategic Planning. Policy
Analysis and development. Planning and organizing. Decision making. Project
Management. Communication. Computer literate. Interpersonal relations.
Knowledge: A good knowledge and understanding of the principles, policies
and best practice applications for sport administration and management. An
understanding of community participation.
166
DUTIES : Monitor compliance with legislative requirements, policies, and procedures.
Monitor the support given to communities. Monitor the unit’s expenditure on a
regular basis. Prepare expenditure reports. Submit reports to relevant
managers. Request for procurement of goods and services necessary from the
Deputy Director. Ensure proper management of financial management within
the unit. Implementation of relevant financial policies within the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/232 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CREATIVE CLUSTER & COMMUNITIES (X4
POSTS)
Directorate: Creative Cluster & Communities
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Central Corridor Region A&E Ref No: SACR/02/2025/32
Northern Corridor Region A Art Ref No: SACR/02/2025/33
East Corridor Ref No: SACR/02/2025/34
South Corridor Region B Ref No: SACR/02/2025/35
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF 6/7) in Art Management,
Heritage, Cultural Science, Creative Arts, Fine Arts or relevant qualification as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum 3 – 5 years at Supervisory level experience
in the relevant field. Knowledge: A good knowledge and understanding of the
principles, policies and best practice applications for sport administration and
management. An understanding of community participation. Skills: Planning
and Organizing, Problem solving, Decision making, Project Management,
Communication, Computer literate, Conflict Management, Interpersonal
relations, Analytical thinking.
DUTIES : Identification of talent. Facilitate the development and nurturing of Artistry.
Implement arts and culture in communities and ensure compliance with
relevant legislative framework. Increase mass participation in culture
programmes. Create an opportunity for artists to showcase their talent.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Cynthia Mabaso Tel No: (011) 355 2714 (Central Corridor)
Mr. Bongani Mkhwebane Tel No: (011) 355 2539 (North Corridor)
Mr. Ouwen Gaveni Tel No: (011) 355 2861 (East Corridor)
Ms. Vivien Khanye Tel No: (011) 355 2720 (South Corridor)
APPLICATIONS : Central Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACR.RecCentral@gauteng.gov.za
North Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACR.RecNorth@gauteng.gov.za
East Corridor: applications to be emailed to SACR.RecEast@gauteng.gov.za
South Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACR.RecSouth@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/233 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SPORT DEVELOPMENT AND SCHOOL SPORT
(X6 POSTS)
Directorate: Sport Development and School Sport
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Central Corridor Region G Ref No: SACR/02/2025/36
Western Corridor Region B Ref No: SACR/02/2025/37
Western Corridor Region D Ref No: SACR/02/2025/38
East Corridor Region C&D Ref No: SACR/02/2025/39
East Corridor Region F Ref No: SACR/02/2025/40
South Corridor Region A Ref No: SACR/02/2025/41
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) in Sports
Management/Sports Science, Sport Administration, Health Science in Sport or
relevant qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum 3 – 5 years at
Supervisory level experience in the relevant field. Skills: Communication skills,
Presentation skills, Budgeting, Research, Analytical thinking, Interpersonal
Skills and Project Management Skills Knowledge: Government policies and
programmes, Knowledge of Sport and Recreation, Regulations and
procedures in required environment, Finance, and HR Matters.
DUTIES : To promote and manage Sport Development and School Sport within the
Corridor. To undertake any other duties compatible with the nature of the post
or as directed by line manager. Communicate in the workplace and team. To
167
render administrative support service. Secure and allocate resources and
budget to achieve workplace objectives. Compile and submit budget estimates
of the sub-directorate. Compile and submit monthly and quarterly reports of the
sub-directorate. Monitor the expenditure of the sub-directorate. Monitor own
performance and that of others. Assist in the coordination and planning of Sport
Development and School Sport programs / events.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Cynthia Mabaso Tel No: (011) 355 2714 (Central Corridor)
Mr. Nkhumeleni Magadze Tel No: (011) 355 2615 (West Corridor)
Mr. Ouwen Gaveni Tel No: (011) 355 2861 (East Corridor)
Ms. Vivien Khanye Tel No: (011) 355 2720 (South Corridor)
APPLICATIONS : Central Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACR.RecCentral@gauteng.gov.za
West Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACRWestCorridor@gauteng.gov.za
East Corridor: applications to be emailed to SACR.RecEast@gauteng.gov.za
South Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACR.RecSouth@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/234 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RECREATION (X3 POSTS)
Directorate: Recreation
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : East Corridor Region A Ref No: SACR/02/2025/42
South Corridor Region A Ref No: SACR/02/2025/43
Johannesburg (Head Office) Ref No: SACR/02/2025/44
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) in Sports
Management/Sports Science, Sport Administration, Health Science in Sport or
relevant qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum 3 – 5 years at
Supervisory level experience in the relevant field. Skills: Communication skills,
Presentation skills, Budgeting, Research, Analytical thinking, Interpersonal
Skills and Project Management Skills Knowledge: Government policies and
programmes, Knowledge of Sport and Recreation, Regulations and
procedures in required environment, Finance, and HR Matters.
DUTIES : Mass Participation: Facilitate the implementation of talent identification
programs in participating schools. Provide support to the Contract workers
(school sport assistants). Liaise with the school sport committee. Coordinate
school sport festivals. Facilitate the establishment of school leagues. Do
monitoring and evaluation of the program and events. Liaise with relevant
district officials. Provide support on Partnership (Dreams and Teams).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ouwen Gaveni Tel No: (011) 355 2861 (East Corridor)
Ms. Vivien Khanye Tel No: (011) 355 2720 (South Corridor)
Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697 (Head Office)
APPLICATIONS : East Corridor: applications to be emailed to SACR.RecEast@gauteng.gov.za
South Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACR.RecSouth@gauteng.gov.za
Head Office: applications to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/235 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MONUMENTS FACILITIES REF NO:
SACR/02/2025/45
Directorate: Heritage, language, Geographical Names, Museums, and
Indigenous Knowledge Systems
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) in Humanities/
Architectural/ Heritage studies / Culture/ Arts/ Tourism/ Hospitality or relevant
qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3 – 5 years 'experience in
the relevant environment of which 3 years must be at a supervisory level.
Knowledge: Analytical thinking, Strong interpersonal and leadership skills,
Attention to detail, Adaptability and resilience, Commitment to preserving and
promoting cultural heritage. Skills: Ability to operate computer. (Both hardware
and software). Problem solving. Conflict resolution. Project Management.
Policy analysis and development. Policy/objectives formulation. Planning,
budgeting and reporting. Facilitation. Research.
168
DUTIES : Conduct and manage research to inform policy development for monument
facilities. Facilitate the development and implementation of operational plans
for monument facilities use and maintenance. Provide technical support and
guidance on the preservation and restoration of monument infrastructure.
Develop and implement maintenance strategies, cultural and commemorative
assets. Assist in planning and budgeting for monument maintenance and
restoration of cultural assets in the province in collaboration with facilities and
infrastructure. Establish and maintain the provincial online cultural database.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/236 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: POLICY AND RESEARCH REF NO:
SACR/02/2025/47
Directorate: Research, policy coordination knowledge management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) in Social
Science/ Public Management and Governance/Administration/ Development
Studies or relevant qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3 - 5
years in Supervisory level experience in policy development and research
area. Skills: Communication both verbal and written, Analytical, Research,
Computer literacy (MS Team), Planning and Organization, Presentation and
training, Problem solving. Knowledge: Library and information science matters.
Prescripts and legislation, Procedures and processes.
DUTIES : Ensure effective development and implementation of research strategy and
policy management assignments. Develop, implement and maintain protocols
for both external and internal research policy. Plan, Facilitate integration of
research activities in the department for supremacy of resources alignment.
Maintain repository of research products and facilitate dissemination of
research results for good governance. Facilitate the development and review
of both sectoral and operational policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/237 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SOCIAL COHESION REF NO: SACR/02/2025/48
Directorate: Intergovernmental Relations
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) in Public
Relations, International Relations /Public Administration or relevant
qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3 - 5 years in Supervisory
level experience in public relations/ social cohesion environment. Skills:
Interpersonal Skills, Project Management, Technical analytic skills, Negotiation
Skills, Planning and organization skills, Problem solving, conflict management,
Excellent verbal and written communication, Leadership, Computer Literacy,
Report writing, Client Liaison. Public relations. Knowledge: DPSA Legislation
and processes. HR prescripts including delegations. SACR mandates vision,
mission and values, SARC governance and functional structures.
DUTIES : Coordinate an effective social cohesion and advocacy plan. Provide inputs on
the development and implementation of effective advocacy plan. Establish and
maintain relationships with external stakeholders. Establish and maintain good
working relations with key provincial and local government departments,
municipal managers and ward councilors to secure buy-in and ownership of
the Project. Coordinate and implement civic/public education and social
cohesion training workshops. Provide Logistics and coordinate events
supplies. Facilitate the running of national events and programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
169
POST 21/238 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CONSERVATION AND PRESERVATION REF NO:
SACR/02/2025/49
Directorate: Archival Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate. A 3 tertiary
qualification, Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) in Social
Sciences/ Historical Studies/ Heritage Resources/ Humanities/ Conservation /
Archive and Records Management or relevant qualification as recognized by
SAQA. A minimum of 3 - 5 years in Supervisory level experience in
Conservation and Preservation environment. Experience to perform tests and
deacidification of paper and books. A Driver’s license. Skills: Computer,
Planning and organizing, good verbal and Written communication skills,
flexibility, Teamwork and Interpersonal relations. Knowledge: Knowledge of a
wide range of work procedures and/or processes such as knowledge of clerical
duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computers and
collect statistics. Knowledge of and ability to perform teste and deacidification
of paper and books. Knowledge of binding and conservation materials and
tools, as well as their use. Ability to create preservation enclosures, including
boxes and encapsulations. Ability to plan, organize, coordinate and critique
work assignments. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the public services.
DUTIES : Uses independent judgement to restore or repair binding in accordance with
historical styles and conservation requirements. This may include construction
of new spines, rebuking, resewing of the text blocks and complete rebinding.
Performs various paper repair techniques to correct tears, lacunae, stains etc.
Examples of paper repair include end-sheet replacement, tissue repair,
guarding of centre folds and removing and replacing old mends. Create
protective enclosures including phase boxes, rare book boxes, portfolios,
envelopes and polyester encapsulations for material which cannot be
otherwise treated. Deacidifies paper by aqueous and non-aqueous methods to
slow or halt acidic deterioration. Determine the reaction of paper, ink and dyes
to deacidification and determine the most appropriate reaction of completing
work on each individual item. Tests paper, textiles, leather, adhesives and other
library materials and structures by chemical and mechanical means to
determine their durability and longevity. Examples of tests are those for acid,
ground wood and alum content and flexibility, solubility and durability of
materials. Assists in training, work assignment and supervision of the student
assistants.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/239 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ORAL HISTORY REF NO: SACR/02/2025/50
Directorate: Provincial Archives
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) Social
Sciences/ Historical Studies/ Heritage Resources/ Humanities/ Anthropology
or relevant qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3 - 5 years in
Supervisory level experience in Oral History environment. A valid Driver’s
license. Skills: Organizing, Report writing, Ability to operate computers,
Interpersonal relationship, Problem solving, Project management, Budgeting,
Accountability, Analytical thinking, Conflict resolution, Verbal and written
communication, Presentation, training, Supervision, Planning. Knowledge:
Records Management practices, National Archives Act, Gauteng Provincial
Archives Act, Promotion of Access to information Act, Public Finance
Management Act, Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Supply
Chain Management Regulations and procedures, Budgeting and budget
control, Report writing and procedures, Departmental mandate and core
programme.
DUTIES : Conduct recording or filming of oral history projects. Conduct oral history
training. Undertake the identification, research, selection and exhibition or
display of oral history items. Undertake research to identify potential sources.
170
Advice on oral history methods and equipment. To collect research and
transcribe oral history records. Implement oral history programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/240 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DIGITIZATION REF NO: SACR/02/2025/51
Directorate: Provincial Archives
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Kagiso – Gauteng Provincial Archives
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification, Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) in Library
Science/ Archivist Studies, Records Management, Information Technology or
relevant qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3 - 5 years in
Supervisory level experience in Digitization environment. A Driver’s license.
Skills: Organizing, Report writing, Ability to operate computers, Interpersonal
relations, Problem solving, Project management, Budgeting, Conflict
Resolution, Verbal and written communication, Presentation, Training,
Supervision and Planning. Knowledge: Through knowledge of digitization best
practices and standards, Knowledge of ANSI/NISO technical metadata for still
images, knowledge of digital audio/visual recording wrappers and codes,
knowledge of MARC, DACS, AAR2r, Familiarity with LC authority files and
ULAN preferred, Familiarity with VRACore, CDWA, CCO and Getty
vocabularies preferred, Ability to prioritize and work with minimum supervision,
Good organizational skills and attention to detail, Records management,
practices, National Archives Act, Gauteng provincial Archives Act, Promotion of
Access to information Act, Supply Chain Management Regulations and
procedures. Budgeting and budget control, Reporting writing and procedures,
Departmental mandate and core programme.
DUTIES : To digitize photographs, audio-visual materials and Documents in accordance
with archival standards. To colour correct digital images. To conduct digital
cataloguing. To conduct digital curatorship. To edit audio-visual recordings for
the use on web and in exhibition.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Nkhumeleni Magadze Tel No: (011) 355 2615
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACRWestCorridor@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/241 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO:
SACR/02/2025/52
Directorate: Office of the Chief Financial Officer
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification, Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF level 6/7) in Financial
Management/ Accounting or relevant qualification as recognized by SAQA. A
minimum of 3 - 5 years in Supervisory level experience in Financial Accounting
environment. Skills: Analytical skills, Problem solving, Decision making,
Communication and presentation skills, Interpersonal Relations and Computer
Literacy. Knowledge: Basic knowledge of GRAP and the application of basic
Accounting Systems (BAS). Basic knowledge of PFMA and Treasury
Regulations. Cash management and reporting. Petty cash control and policies,
Cashbook and cash management systems, Processing of payment and basic
Accounting System and SAP.
DUTIES : Ensure processing of procurement and sundry payments. Assists in the
preparation of a financial statement. Ensure adherence and compliance to all
reporting requirements, policies and PFMA. Ensure effective processing of
Petty cash and cash allocation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/242 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL CONTROL REF NO: SACR/02/2025/53
Directorate: Office of the Chief Financial Officer
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF level 6/7) in Financial
171
Accounting, Risk Management/Compliance Management /Internal Audit or
relevant as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3-5 years’ experience at
supervisory level in the relevant field. A valid driver’s license. Skills:
Communication Skills (Verbal& written). Investigation skills, planning and
organizing skills, financial management skills, Leadership skills, Project
Management skills, Problem solving and client orientation skills, Interpersonal
skills and Computer literacy skills. Ability to work under pressure and adapt to
change demands. Knowledge: Knowledge of PFMA, Treasury regulations,
PSR, and other relevant prescripts.
DUTIES : Ensure that separate files are created for each lost Case. Analyze the final
reports from SAPS on the outcome of reported cases. Facilitate the recovery
of costs for assets lost due to negligence and non-compliance with the asset
loss policy. Participate in the reduction of the percentage of asset losses in the
department by identifying risks and mitigations thereof. Ensure the
development and maintenance of policies and procedures on asset losses.
Implement policies and procedures on asset losses and monitor compliance
against the assets loss policy. Compile a report on the investigations conducted
on internal asset loss cases. Ensure the Maintenance of the asset loss
database. Facilitate the recovery of costs for assets lost due to negligence and
or non-compliance with the Asset Loss policy. Reported to be stolen or
damaged. Verification and Identification of lost assets still pending to be
transferred to RAAAA location. Obtain detailed stolen asset reports from the
BAUD system RAAAA location.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/243 : SENIOR HUMAN RESOURCES OFFICER REF NO: SACR/02/2025/54
Directorate: Condition of Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF Level 6 / 7) in Human
Resource Management / Human Resources Administration or relevant
qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 2 - 3 years in the relevant
environment plus a valid Driver’s License. Skills: Interpersonal skills, Problem
solving, Diversity awareness, Communication, Analytical, Initiative, Innovation/
continuous improvement, Planning and organising, Leadership, Negotiation,
Influencing. Computer Literacy particular MS, Excel, Outlook and Word.
Knowledge: GPG policies and procedures, Relevant legislation and Public
Service Regulations, Knowledge of customer service, Leave management,
PERSAL, ESS, SAP and Conflict Management. Project Management, People
Management, Financial Management, Conflict Management.
DUTIES : Develop and facilitate the implementation of human resource management and
administration. Administer conditions of service, remuneration, and employee
benefits. Manage leave matters. Manage and support line managers with the
implementation of PILIR. Ensure that employee benefits are timeously
captured and processed. Ensure the facilitation of service benefits workshops
and trainings. Ensure timeous processing of leave and implementation of
PILIR. Ensure the coordination of injury on duty and Pay roll administration.
Ensure timeous compensation of employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/244 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : North Corridor Ref No: SACR/02/2025/55
Head Office (Directorate: Management Accounting) Ref No: SACR/02/2025/56
Head Office (Directorate: Library and Information Services) Ref No:
SACR/02/2025/57
Head Office (Directorate: Heritage) Ref No: SACR/02/2025/58
Head Office (Directorate: Sport and Recreation) Ref No: SACR/02/2025/59
Head Office (Directorate: Creative Industries) Ref No: SACR/02/2025/60
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) Secretariat
Diploma or equivalent qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3
172
Years’ Experience in rendering a support service to senior management. Skills:
Ability to Communicate well with People at Different Levels and from different
Backgrounds. Good Telephone Etiquette. Analytical skills, Project
Management skills, Report writing skills, Problem solving, Computer Literacy.
Sound Organizational Skills. Good People skills. High level of reliability Written
Communication Skills. Ability to Act with Tact and Discretion. Knowledge:
Knowledge of Relevant Legislation/ Policies/ Prescripts and Procedures. Basic
Knowledge of Financial Administration.
DUTIES : Provides secretarial/Receptionist support service to the manager. Renders
administrative support service. Administers matters like the leave registers and
telephone accounts. Provides a clerical support service to the manager.
Remains up to date regarding prescripts/policies and procedures applicable to
her/his work terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the manager.
Processes the travel and subsistence claims for the unit. Process all invoices
that emanate from the activities of the work of the manager. Records of basic
minutes of the meetings of the manager were required. Draft routine
correspondence and reports. Does filing of documents for the manager.
Receives records and distributes all incoming and outgoing documents.
Handles the procurement of standard items like stationery, refreshments, etc.
Collect all relevant documents to enable the manager to prepare for meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Bongani Mkhwebane Tel No: (011) 355 2539 (North Corridor)
Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697 (Head Office)
APPLICATIONS : North Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACR.RecNorth@gauteng.gov.za
Head Office: applications to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/245 : LANGUAGE PRACTITIONER: SETSWANA REF NO: SACR/02/2025/61
Directorate: Heritage
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) in Languages
or equivalent qualification with one of the relevant languages as Setswana. No
experience required. A valid driver’s license. An experience in language
Development programs and Translations will be an added advantage. PFMA,
Legislation, prescript, Skills: Research, Administration, planning and
organization, problem solving, formulating and editing, facilitation,
interpersonal relationship. Analytical thinking, Maintain discipline, project
management, reporting, Policy development and analysis, supervising,
budgeting, financial management, conflict management, verbal and written
communication and leadership and computer literacy.
DUTIES : Interpreting during official sessions. Prepare and conduct research on the topic
and the type of audience. Provide simultaneous and consecutive interpreting.
Edit document. Submit edited documents to the supervisor for quality
assurance. Discuss and effect changes proposed by supervisor. Record new
terminology/ language problems with possible solutions for future reference.
Record and file edited documents. Conduct research and provide professional
advice and support to interpreters and clients. Participate in the development
of language awareness campaigns. Undertake language awareness
campaigns. Develop, populate and maintain sign language databases.
Undertake research on new sign language developments. Coordinate and
conduct literature writing workshops. Facilitate literature writing competitions.
Establish and support reading and debating clubs. Provide guidance to
budding (emerging) writers and act as a link between the writers and
publishers. Editing documents of newly coined terms. Develop and maintain
database on projects and programmes with regard language issues. Provide
administrative and technical support regarding language programmes.
Monitoring the implementation of approved sign language programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/246 : LIBRARIAN (X4 POSTS)
Directorate: Library services/ Corridor Coordination
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Tshwane Ref No: SACR/02/2025/63
173
Ekurhuleni Ref No: SACR/02/2025/64
Central Corridor Ref No: SACR/02/2025/65
Johannesburg Head Office Ref No: SACR/02/2025/66
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification (Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma NQF Level 6/7) in Library
Science / Information Science or a relevant qualification as recognized by
SAQA. A minimum of 1-2 years’ working experience in Library services. Skills:
Organizing your own work. Problem solving. Customer care. Good
interpersonal relations. Creative thinking. Computers literacy e.g. Microsoft
office and internet. Numeracy. Ability to work under pressure. Language
proficiency. Communication. Analytical thinking. Knowledge: Library and
information science matters. Prescripts and legislation. Procedures and
processes.
DUTIES : Provide internal and external communications support. Ensuring marketing of
library programmes on departmental digital platforms (Website, Intranet and
Email and Social Media pages). Ensure management and adherence to
departmental brand identity. Provide content for publications and
photojournalism services. Conduct and facilitate effective marketing of library
programs. Manage the implementation of partnership programs in partnership
with National and Municipalities. Compile and submit budget estimates for the
reading programs. Compile and submit monthly and quarterly reports of the
directorate. Monitor the development and implementation of programmes and
projects. Monitor your own performance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Bongani Mkhwebane Tel No: (011) 355 2539 (Tshwane)
Mr. Ouwen Gaveni Tel No: (011) 355 2861 (Ekurhuleni)
Ms. Cynthia Mabaso Tel No: (011) 355 2714 (Central Corridor)
Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697 (Johannesburg Head Office)
APPLICATIONS : Tshwane: applications to be emailed to SACR.RecNorth@gauteng.gov.za
Ekurhuleni: applications to be emailed to SACR.RecEast@gauteng.gov.za
Central Corridor applications to be emailed to
SACR.RecCentral@gauteng.gov.za
Johannesburg Head Office applications to be emailed to
SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/247 : CULTURAL OFFICER (X5 POSTS)
Directorate: Creative Arts
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : West Corridor Ref No: SACR/02/2025/67
Central Corridor Region A & E Ref No: SACR/02/2025/68
Central Corridor Region B&C Ref No: SACR/02/2025/69
South Corridor Region A Ref No: SACR/02/2025/70
South Corridor Region C Ref No: SACR/02/2025/71
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) in Arts/ Fine
Arts/ Heritage/ Performing Arts or relevant qualification as recognized by
SAQA. No experience required. Knowledge of Arts and Culture will be an
added advantage. A drivers’ License will be an added advantage. Skills:
Planning and Organizing; Decision Making; Project management;
Communication; Computer Literacy; Interpersonal Relations.
DUTIES : Identify, develop, and promote (emerging) artists and crafters as well as
implement projects related to performing and visual arts and crafts. Create
awareness programmes for craft, performing and visual arts. Conduct needs
analysis and professional advice on performing visual arts and crafts. Render
administrative functions in relation to programmes that are implemented.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Nkhumeleni Magadze Tel No: (011) 355 2615 (West Corridor)
Ms. Cynthia Mabaso Tel No: (011) 355 2714 (Central Corridor)
Ms. Vivien Khanye Tel No: (011) 355 2720 (South Corridor)
APPLICATIONS : West Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACRWestCorridor@gauteng.gov.za
Central Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACR.RecCentral@gauteng.gov.za
South Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACR.RecSouth@gauteng.gov.za
174
POST 21/248 : SPORT PROMOTION OFFICER REF NO: SACR/02/2025/72
Directorate: Competitive Sport
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have Grade 12 Certificate plus A 3-year
tertiary qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) in Sport
and Recreation Management/ Sport Science/ Sport Development/ Sport
Administration, or relevant qualification as recognized by SAQA. No
experience required. A driver’s license and experience may serve as an
advantage. Skills: The candidate must have Communication; Computer
literacy; Interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Coordinate the implementation of the Competitive Sport Programme. To
coordinate the establishment and provide support to Competitive Sport
structures in conjunction with internal and external stakeholders. Assist in
establishing and maintain Competitive Sport structures. Render administrative
support services to Project Managers, federations, internal and external
stakeholders in relation to programmes that are implemented. Examine,
compile and monitor transfer payments of funded projects. Monitor and
evaluate compliance with sport and recreation transformational policies.
Render administrative functions in relation to programmes that are
implemented.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/249 : SPORT PROMOTION OFFICER (X6 POSTS)
Directorate: Sports and Recreation
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : North Corridor Region C&D Ref No: SACR/02/2025/73 (X2 Posts)
West Corridor Region Ref No: SACR/02/2025/74
South Corridor Region B Ref No: SACR/02/2025/75
East Corridor Region B Ref No: SACR/02/2025/76
East Corridor Region F Ref No: SACR/02/2025/77
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have Grade 12 Certificate plus A 3-year
tertiary qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) in Sport
and Recreation Management/ Sport Science/ Sport Development/ Sport
Administration, or relevant qualification as recognized by SAQA. No
experience required. A driver’s license and experience may serve as an
advantage. Skills: The candidate must have Communication; Computer
literacy; Interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Coordinate the establishment and provide support to sport and recreation
structures in schools, wards local areas, in conjunction with stakeholders.
Facilitate sustainable capacity development programmes in sport within the
schools, wards, local areas, and districts. Implement sport and recreation
programmes in the schools, wards, and local areas for the development of
sport and recreation. Monitor and evaluate compliance with sport and
recreation transformational policies. Render administrative functions in relation
to programmes that are implemented.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Bongani Mkhwebane Tel No: (011) 355 2539 (North Corridor)
Mr. Nkhumeleni Magadze Tel No: (011) 355 2615 (West Corridor)
Ms. Vivien Khanye Tel No: (011) 355 2720 (South Corridor)
Mr. Ouwen Gaveni Tel No: (011) 355 2861 (East Corridor)
APPLICATIONS : North Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACR.RecNorth@gauteng.gov.za
West Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACRWestCorridor@gauteng.gov.za
South Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACR.RecSouth@gauteng.gov.za
East Corridor: applications to be emailed to SACR.RecEast@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/250 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF NO:
SACR/02/2025/78
Directorate: Monitoring and Evaluation
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Head Office
175
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) in
Developmental Monitoring and Evaluations/ Public Administration / Public
Management or relevant qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 1
– 2 years in administration environment, A valid driver’s license. Skills:
Communication skills, Presentation skills, Budgeting, Research, Analytical
thinking, Interpersonal Skills and Project Management Skills, Planning and
organizing. Leadership. Knowledge: Policy formulation. Change management.
Performance management. Business performance management. GPG
policies and procedures, Relevant legislation and public services regulations,
understanding of expectations of customers, knowledge of contracts,
management information knowledge.
DUTIES : Provide professional office support to the unit to facilitate management and
implementation of business plans. Maintain the unit’s appointments and
meetings to enable effective time management costs. Transcribe and type
written and dictated communication. Review, annotate register, classify,
priorities and distribute incoming correspondence of routine nature. Prepare
and review submissions. Record and route outgoing correspondence. File all
relevant documents for record purposes. Provide logistical support services for
meetings, workshops, and seminars. Receive and transmit electronic written
and verbal messages of internal and external clients, attend to or refer
customer’s queries/problems to other officials as necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/251 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (MR3) REF NO: SACR/02/2025/62
Directorate: Legal Services
SALARY : R324 579 – R371 121 per annum, (plus benefits), (OSD). The Department will
award a higher salary notch based on the experience of the applicant.
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate, four (4) year
Degree in Law (LLB/ B. Proc) (or as otherwise determined by the minister of
Justice and Constitutional Development). A minimum of 2 years appropriate
post qualification legal experience. Admission as an Attorney or Advocate will
be an added advantage. Skills: Report writing, Probing skills, Analytical skills,
Interpersonal skills, Client Orientation and customer focused skills. Knowledge:
Knowledge and understanding of legislative and Policy framework governing
Legal Services processes, systems, and procedures in Public Service.
Knowledge and understanding of Department’s legal requirements,
obligations, and commitments. Knowledge and understanding of the Public
Service Legislative Framework. Knowledge of drafting and interpretation of
contracts. Knowledge of South African Constitutional law is imperative.
DUTIES : Display an understanding of drafting legal documents that provide clear
motivation/ justification for a particular position pertaining to the case, also
proposing the approach to be followed to ensure success in this regard.
Understand and have a basic knowledge of legal research principles. Conduct
research and consult with various stakeholders on legal advice. Conduct
advocacy to ensure that all prescripts binding on the department are complied
with. Maintain a database of all the legal advice and relevant cases that govern
how the Department should operate. Update review and maintain the Standard
operating procedures applicable to the provision of legal services. Provide
effective, efficient, and up to date legal advice taking into consideration the
prevailing legal environment. Recommend to the Department necessary steps
to be taken to ensure that the decision of the Department is beyond reproach.
Display an understanding of the law and case law relevant to the legal matter
at hand and be guided in presenting motivation/ proposals on how the specific
case should be approached to obtain desirable/ justifiable outcome. Display
knowledge and understanding of interviewing principles for the purpose of
determining client’s goals and objectives. Accurately document an interview /
advice given including but not limited to notetaking and succinctly taking
instructions from client.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
176
POST 21/252 : DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR REF NO: SACR/02/2025/79
Directorate: ICT
SALARY : R269 499 per annum (Level 06), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) in IT or ICT or
relevant qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3 Years’
experience in server administration. Knowledge: Information Technology.
Service level agreement management. Quality Management. GPG’s
regulations, policies and procedures. Customer relationship management.
Skills: Technical skills. Planning & organising. Reasoning skills. Analytical.
Decision making. Problem solving. Verbal and Written Communication.
Advance Computer Literacy. Innovation Continuous Improvement. Report
Writing Skills. Customer Service Skills. Information Management.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate and implement security measures to safeguard databases.
Establish the needs of users and monitor user access and security. Monitor
performance and manage parameters to provide fast responses to front-end
users. Refine the logical design so that it can be translated into a specific data
model. Further refining the physical design to meet system storage
requirements. Install and test new versions of the database management
system (DBMS). Maintain data standards, including adherence to the Data
Protection Act. Write database documentation, including data standards,
procedures and definitions for the data dictionary (metadata). Control Access
Permissions and privileges. Develop, manage and test back-up and recovery
plans. Ensure that storage and archiving procedures are functioning correctly.
Carry out capacity planning. Work closely with IT project managers, database
programmers and multimedia programmers. Communicate regularly with
technical, applications and operational staff to ensure database integrity and
security. Commission and install new applications and customize existing
applications in order to make them fit for purposes. Manage the security and
disaster recovery aspects of a database.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/253 : EDUCATIONAL OFFICER (MUSEUMS AND MONUMENTS) REF NO:
SACR/02/2025/80
Directorate: Heritage, language, Geographical Names, Museums, and
Indigenous Knowledge Systems
SALARY : R269 499 per annum (Level 06), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate. A 3-year tertiary
qualification Degree/B-Tech/National Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) in Humanities /
Languages/ Museums /Heritage Studies or relevant qualification as recognized
by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years’ experience in the relevant field. Driver’s
License (Code B). Skills: Interpersonal Relations, Problem Solving, Conflict
Management, Excellent Verbal and Written Communication, Coordination,
Computer Literacy, Report Writing. Skills: Management skills. Good
interpersonal skills. Organizing skills. Ability to operate a computer.
Communication (written and verbal). Interpersonal relationship. Problem
solving. Ability to interpret relevant directives. Formulating and editing of
memorandums. Analytical thinking. Budget and financial management.
Knowledge: Basic financial procedures that must be followed during (e.g.,
receiving funds) payments on behalf of the State. Basic HR matters such as
what resources are available, which training is available, relations
practices/guidelines. Documents storage, tracking and retrieving. How to do
basic planning, i.e. supplies needed/processes to follow to perform tasks. How
to plan activities and resources needed which are not of a complex nature,
such as planning and co-ordination of own work and that of sub-ordinates.
Basic knowledge required to operate a computer system. Working procedures
in respect of working environment.
DUTIES : Working with individuals to create learning plans. Encouraging and influencing
the development of new learning opportunities through formal and informal
classes as well as individual tutoring and mentoring. Community capacity
building through supporting the development of community or local voluntary
groups. Identifying the training needs of local volunteers and providing them.
177
Formulating service plans and priorities in cooperation with other providers.
Engaging with individuals and community groups, such as residents’
associates, parents’ groups, and young people. Identifying local interests and
needs and ways to meet them. Managing staff and volunteers and dealing with
team training (more usual un senior roles). Undertaking the administration and
evaluation of provision and reporting to advisory bodies and management
groups. Helping potential learners to overcome existing barriers to learning.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/254 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (PLANNING AND REPORTING) REF NO:
SACR/02/2025/81
Directorate: Strategic Management
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent. No
previous experience required. Skills: Interpersonal relations, Computer skills,
planning and organization, good verbal and written communication, flexibility,
and teamwork. Knowledge: planning and reporting, Clerical duties, practices
as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collect statistics.
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
public service, and knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working
environment.
DUTIES : General clerical/ administrative, keep and maintain the filing system for the
component, type letters and/or other correspondence when required, keep and
maintain the incoming and outgoing document register of the component,
complete procurement documents for the purchasing of standard office items,
stock control of office stationery, keep and maintain HR records in the
component and make photocopies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/255 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF NO:
SACR/02/2025/82
Directorate: Monitoring and Evaluation
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 or equivalent. No previous
experience required. Skills: Computer Literacy, Planning and organization,
Language, Good verbal and written communication. Knowledge: Knowledge of
clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer
and collect statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in
terms of the working environment.
DUTIES : Record, organize, store, capture and retrieve correspondence and data (line
function). Update registers and statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make
photocopies and receive or send facsimiles. Distribute documents/packages to
various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component. Type letters and/or other correspondence when required. Keep
and maintain the incoming and outgoing document register of the component.
Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in relation to procurement of
goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete procurement forms for the
purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of office stationery. Keep and
maintain the asset register of the component (district offices). Maintain a leave
register for the component. Keep and maintain personnel records in the
component. Keep and maintain the attendance register of the component.
Arrange travelling and accommodation. Capture and update expenditure in the
component. Check correctness of subsistence and travel claims of officials and
submit to manager for approval. Handle telephone accounts and petty cash for
the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
178
POST 21/256 : AUXILIARY SUPPORT WORKER (SPORT COORDINATOR) (X4 POSTS)
Directorate: Sports and Recreation
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : East Corridor Ref No: SACR/02/2025/83
West Corridor Region B Ref No: SACR/02/2025/84
West Corridor Region D Ref No: SACR/02/2025/85
West Corridor Region A Ref No: SACR/02/2025/86
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 certificate. No previous
experience is required. A driver’s License will be an added advantage. Skills:
Computer literacy. Analytical thinking. Conflict resolution. Problem solving.
Organizing. Project management. Maintaining discipline. Knowledge:
Knowledge of Sport and Recreation.
DUTIES : Render administration tasks. Coordinating and administration of all sports
activities implemented in the Hub. Develop and maintain databases, including
community audits. File documents for the unit in accepted and documented
standards. Respond to all queries in the portfolio. Coordinate in keeping
accurate records of activities on the project. Actively develops ways to contact
and obtain the appropriate coaches and assistants. Assist in arranging
workshops and activities for sporting and gaming programmes. Coordinate in
collating and providing data for reporting. Administer and categories sporting
and gaming equipment ensuring that it is well maintained. Administer and
ensure that the sporting and gaming areas, indoor and outdoor areas are well
maintained and ready for use for sporting and gaming activities. Administer
storage and transportation of sporting and gaming equipment. Order supplies
and maintains inventory. Administer the use of that equipment and ensure
correct use of equipment. Administer the logistics and running of sporting and
gaming programmes. Communicating with the public during sporting and
gaming events. Compile an inventory of all sporting equipment and report on
faulty and damaged equipment. Ensure that damaged equipment is repaired
and/or restored. Monthly reporting on the status of equipment and keeping
statistics regarding condition of equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ouwen Gaveni Tel No: (011) 355 2861 (East Corridor)
Mr. Nkhumeleni Magadze Tel No: (011) 355 2615 (West Corridor)
APPLICATIONS : East Corridor: applications to be emailed to SACR.RecEast@gauteng.gov.za
West Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACRWestCorridor@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/257 : AUXILIARY SUPPORT WORKER (CULTURAL COORDINATOR) (X5
POSTS)
Directorate: Creative Arts
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Central Corridor Ref No: SACR/02/2025/87
South Corridor Ref No: SACR/02/2025/88
West Corridor Ref No: SACR/02/2025/89
North Corridor Region E & F Ref No: SACR/02/2025/90
North Corridor Region E & F Ref No: SACR/02/2025/91
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 certificate. No previous
experience is required. A driver’s License will be an added advantage. Skills:
Computer literacy. Analytical thinking. Conflict resolution. Problem-solving.
Organizing. Project Management. Maintaining discipline. Knowledge:
Knowledge of Arts and Culture.
DUTIES : Submit monthly plans of Execution of tasks given. Submit monthly, quarterly,
and progress reports. Coordinate the facilitation and implementation of arts and
culture programs. Create an enabling environment for the training and
development of the Arts and Culture programs. Administer storage and
transportation of equipment. Receive training in the acquisition and monitoring
of service providers for the integrated Arts and Culture programs.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Cynthia Mabaso Tel No: (011) 355 2714 (Central Corridor)
Ms. Vivien Khanye Tel No: (011) 355 2720 (South Corridor)
Mr. Nkhumeleni Magadze Tel No: (011) 355 2615 (West Corridor)
Mr. Bongani Mkhwebane Tel No: (011) 355 2539 (North Corridor)
APPLICATIONS : Central Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACR.RecCentral@gauteng.gov.za
South Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACR.RecSouth@gauteng.gov.za
179
West Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACRWestCorridor@gauteng.gov.za
North Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACR.RecNorth@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/258 : TELECOMMUNICATION OPERATOR / RECEPTIONIST REF NO:
SACR/02/2025/92 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Office Administration and Facilities Management
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate. No previous
experience is required. Knowledge and understanding of procedures and
processes in coordinating switchboard functions. Skills and competencies:
Problem solving, analysis, customer focus and responsiveness,
communication and information management, interpersonal, planning and
organizing skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate calls. Receive, respond and route incoming calls. Facilitate
outgoing calls for staff and respond to general telephonic enquiries. Report
switchboard technical faults to Service Providers, provide updated internal
telephone directory within the Department and disseminate internal contact
details of all staff in the Corridors and Head Office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/259 : SECURITY OFFICERS (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Securities and Facilities Management
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : North Corridor Ref No: SACR/02/2025/90/93
East Corridor Ref No: SACR/02/2025/90/94
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Security Grade C or above and PSIRA
certificate. No previous experience is required. Knowledge of control and
access to public premises Act 53 of 1985. Knowledge of the Occupational
Health and Safety Act of 85 of 1993. Knowledge of MISS, & PSIRA Act 56 of
2001). Knowledge of emergency procedures in the workplace.
DUTIES : Perform access control functions which will include the following: determine
whether visitors have appointments/ or the service that the visitor requires.
Contact the relevant employee to confirm the appointment or refer the visitor
to the relevant service delivery point. Complete or ensure that the admission
control documents/cards as required. Escort visitors to relevant
employee/venues where required. Operate X-ray machines where applicable.
Lock and unlock entrances. Identify suspicious conduct. Identify suspicious
conduct. Ensure that unauthorized people and dangerous objects do not enter
the building/premises. Follow-up incidents. Ensure safety in the building and
the premises. This will include following; undertake building/premises patrols
identify and check; that doors are locked or unlocked as required; water leaks
and that taps are closed; fire hazards, exposed electrical contact and other fire
hazards emanating from for instance chemicals; lights, switch on and off as
required; and suspicious objects and packages. Apply emergency procedures
(in situations like bomb scares, riots etc.) and alert emergency services and
department security management. Ensure that all assets do not leave or enter
the building or premises unauthorized. This will include the following tasks:
ensure that all assets which leave the premises are accompanied bypass-out;
inspect vehicles entering and leaving the premises; gather information and
report on missing and stolen equipment and stores; handle documents at
points of entry according to classification and the prescripts. Ensure all
incidents are recorded in the occurrence books/registers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Bongani Mkhwebane Tel No: (011) 355 2539 (North Corridor)
Mr. Ouwen Gaveni Tel No: (011) 355 2861 (East Corridor)
APPLICATIONS : North Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACR.RecNorth@gauteng.gov.za
East Corridor: applications to be emailed to SACR.RecEast@gauteng.gov.za
180
POST 21/260 : CLEANERS (X3 POSTS)
Directorate: Facilities Management
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office) Ref No: SACR/02/2025/95
North Corridor Ref No: SACR/02/2025/96 (North Corridor)
South Corridor Ref No: SACR/02/2025/97 (South Corridor)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have ABET (NQF level 1/2) Certificate. No
experience required. An experience as a cleaner will be an added advantage.
Skills: Ability to Communicate well with People at Different Levels and from
different Backgrounds.
DUTIES : Cleaning Offices, elevators, floor and boardrooms. Dusting and waxing office
furniture. Sweeping, scrubbing and waxing floors. Vacuuming and shampooing
floors. Cleaning walls, windows and doors. Emptying and cleaning of dirt bins.
Collect and remove waste papers. Freshen the office areas. Cleaning basins.
Wash and keep stock of kitchen utensils. Cleaning the restrooms. Refilling
hand wash liquid soap. Replace toilet paper, hand towels and refreshers.
Empty and wash waste bins. Keep and maintain cleaning materials and
equipment. Cleaning of machines (microwaves, vacuum cleaners etc.) and
equipment after use. Request cleaning material.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697 (Head Office)
Mr. Bongani Mkhwebane Tel No: (011) 355 2539 (North Corridor)
Ms. Vivien Khanye Tel No: (011) 355 2720 (South Corridor)
APPLICATIONS : Head Office: applications to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
North Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACR.RecNorth@gauteng.gov.za
South Corridor: applications to be emailed to
SACR.RecSouth@gauteng.gov.za
POST 21/261 : HOUSEHOLD AID REF NO: SACR/02/2025/98
Directorate: Facility Management
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have NQF Level 1 or 2 (ABET Level 2
certificate or equivalent). No previous experience is required. Skills: Basic
tidying skills, Basic stitching and Knitting skills. Knowledge: Knowledge of basic
housekeeping procedures.
DUTIES : Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of the areas allocated for cleaning. Remove
garbage disposal. Ensure cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms
and other places in the building/offices. This includes washing, dusting,
polishing, vacuum cleaning and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen
utensils and equipment. Maintain and keep control of stock levels of cleaning
material/tea and meal utensils. Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in
efficient working conditions. Report any item of equipment that needs to be
repaired. Report shortage and/or faulty machine/equipment. Clean the
boardroom, arranging chairs, water, glasses, and any other utensils. Store all
cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the building/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane Tel No: (011) 355 2697
APPLICATIONS : to be emailed to SACR.RecHO@gauteng.gov.za
181
ANNEXURE N
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF CULTURE, SPORT AND RECREATION
CLOSING DATE : 11 July 2025
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on the NEW prescribed Z83 application form
obtainable from any public service department. All section of the form must be
fully completed and duly signed. Please note the following important
guidelines: Z83 Form: All sections of the online Z83 form must be fully
completed also attach a detailed CV. Supporting Documents: Only shortlisted
candidates will be contacted. If shortlisted, you will be required to submit:
Certified copies of your qualifications, Your RSA ID document, Your Senior
Certificate and a valid driver’s license (where applicable). Application Details:
Clearly state the full name of the post and the reference number on the email
application form. One post per application form. Please note the following: The
Department of Culture, Sport and Recreation is an equal opportunity, Sport and
Recreation to promote representatives (race, gender and disability) in
accordance with the Employment Equity targets of the Department. Suitably
qualified women and persons with disabilities remain the targeted group and
are encouraged to apply. All appointments will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check processes (criminal record, qualification verification,
citizenship and employment reference). All Senior Management Service (SMS)
and Middle Management Services (MMS) positions will be subjected to a
compulsory competency-based assessment. Following the interview, the
selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment. Applications received after the closing date or those
that do not comply with the requirements indicated above will not be
considered. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. For full details of the advertised posts, applicants are advised to
visit the Mpumalanga Department of Culture, Sport and Recreation, website:
https://dcsr.mpg.gov.za
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 21/262 : DIRECTOR: PLANNING AND PROGRAMME MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DCSR/01/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree in Management or Administration (NQF
level 7) or equivalent qualification. The Nyukela Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme is to be completed before appointment to the post. Must have a
minimum of five (5) years’ experience at middle/senior management level.
Experience in strategic planning, macro policy, monitoring and evaluation,
planning would be an added advantage. Knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act and Public Service Act, as well as other prescripts applicable
in the Public Service. Essential skills will include the following: Strategic
capability and leadership, Financial management, Change management,
Knowledge management, People management and empowerment,
Programme and project management, Service delivery innovations, Client
orientation and customer focus, Problem solving and analysis,
Communications.
DUTIES : Coordinate development of departmental strategic, annual performance and
operational plans. Consolidation of non-financial performance report,
Monitoring and evaluation of the effectiveness and implementation of the
departmental operational plans. Development of departmental service delivery
improvement plan. Initiation and coordination of research, Linkage between
departmental plan & municipal IDPs, Manage financial Management and
Human Resources of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Boni Masilela Tel No: (013) 766 5173
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 2, Mbombela or emailed to dcsrmborecruit@mpg.gov.za
182
POST 21/263 : CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (LEVEL OF A DIRECTOR) REF NO:
DCSR/02/2025
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree or equivalent qualification in Commerce or
Finance & Auditing. The Nyukela Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme
is to be completed before appointment to the post. Must have a minimum of
five (5) years’ experience at middle/senior management level. Extensive
experience in the field of Finance. Knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act and Public Service Act, as well as other prescripts applicable
in the Public Service. The incumbent must possess the following skills:
Strategic capability and leadership. Financial management. Accounting
management. Change management. Knowledge management. People
management and empowerment. Programme and project management.
Service delivery innovations. Client orientation and customer focus. Problem
solving and analysis. Good Communication skills.
DUTIES : Managing compliance with requirements of the PFMA, Financial manuals and
Treasury Regulations. Managing the efficient, effective, economical and
transparent use of resources. Designing and implementation of internal
controls, including proper risk management. Provision of timely, accurate and
adequate financial and other operational information for strategic decision
making purposes and preparation of strategic plans. Ensuring that sound
accounting systems and procedures for expenditure management and control
are in place. Ensuring that proper planning for the acquisition of assets, design
and implementation of measures to protect and maintain assets. Designing,
implementation and maintenance of accounting systems to ensure complete,
valid, accurate and timeous financial/non-financial information. Rendering of
efficient and effective supply chain management services. Overseeing the
management and monitoring of the developmental budget in support of service
delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Boni Masilela Tel No: (013) 7665173
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 2, Mbombela or emailed to dcsrmborecruit@mpg.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 21/264 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: NKANGALA REGIONAL OFFICE REF NO:
DCSR/03/2025
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala regional office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognised Degree/National Diploma in Public
Administration/Public Management or equivalent qualification (NQF level 6
or&7). Proven experience in the coordination of culture, sport and recreation
activities. Knowledge and understanding of the Public Finance Management
Act and Public Service Act, including their respective regulations. Ability to
analyse problem areas and initiate corrective measures. Ability to
communicate at all levels. Strong communication and leadership skills.
Willingness to work on weekends and public holidays. Knowledge of the White
Paper on Sport & Recreation and Art, Culture and Heritage. Skills in human
resource management & development processes and project management.
Planning and organizing skills. Ability to work under pressure in a fast-paced
and demanding work environment. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage staff, sport, art and culture programmes as well as administrative
processes within the region and ensuring that systems and procedures are
followed. Plan and Coordinate sport, art and culture in the region. Compile,
submit budget and monitor expenditure. Compile, submit and implement the
operational plan. Monitor activities of the region. Implement inclusive youth
development programmes. Evaluate and propose intervention strategies for
betterment of sport, art and culture programmes and general management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Dina Ntuli Tel No: (013) 766 8339
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at Dr. Esther Nostokana Mahlangu
Building Government Complex, Nkangala or emailed to
dcsrmborecruit@mpg.gov.za
183
POST 21/265 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ARTS AND CULTURE NKANGALA REGION REF
NO: DCSR/04/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala Region
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized Bachelor of Arts degree or equivalent qualification.
Relevant experience, project management skills and a driver’s license.
DUTIES : Develop and implement an action plan for the development of visual arts and
crafts in Mpumalanga province, Embark on active programs to expose fine
artists and crafts in Mpumalanga in accordance with the action plan, Implement
and monitor active programs in the community, to promote sustainable
development and expose the community to the diverse possibilities of arts and
crafts which will benefit all stakeholders and practitioners within the industry
and the economy as a whole. Empower and provide guidance, information and
assistance to fine artist and craft people. To acknowledge and bring credits to
their unique role and contribution to arts and craft, to act as project manager of
special project such as the Mpumalanga Mobile Craft Clinic, to market our arts
and craft through South Africa and to the world.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Dina Ntuli Tel No: (013) 766 8339
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at Dr. Esther Nostokana Mahlangu
Building Government Complex, Nkangala or emailed to
dcsrnkangarecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 21/266 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: AUXILIARY SERVICES REF NO: DCSR/05/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate tertiary qualification in Public Management/Administration NQF
level 6 or equivalent qualification plus extensive relevant experience.
Knowledge of processes and procedures of records management, legislative
prescripts governing the public service. Computer literacy. Good interpersonal
relations. Driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage and render messenger service, Facilitate and render auxiliary
services. Facilitate access to meeting rooms. Facilitate and render
telecommunication services. Facilitate and render records services,
Overseeing staff, allocating work, and assessing performance, maintaining
leave registers and arranging travel and accommodation, performing routine
and inspections at sites in relation to department records and working to
advance the goals and objectives of the auxiliary services, develop
departmental records management strategies and manage all electronic and
audio-visual records.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Samkelisiwe Lushaba-Mambane Tel No: (013) 766 5245
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 2, Mbombela or emailed to dcsrmborecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 21/267 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LANGUAGES (ISINDEBELE) REF NO:
DCSR/06/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification (NQF level 6) in Languages or equivalent
qualification as recognized by SAQA; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in a
translation services work environment; Language requirement: Major in
IsiNdebele; Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service statutory
frameworks: Financial Management and regulatory framework/ guidelines,
Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations, Public
Finance Management Act, Basic Condition of Employment Act, Labour
Relations Act and Government initiatives and decisions; Understanding of
Code of Conduct; Knowledge of Departmental interpretation and application of
policies and Administration of office. Skills and Competencies: Applied
strategic thinking; Applied technology; Budgeting and financial management;
Communication and information management; Continuous improvement;
Citizen focus and responsiveness; Diversity management; Impact and
influence; Managing interpersonal conflict and resolving problems; Computer
literacy; Planning and organising; Project management; Team leadership and
a valid driver’s license. Competencies: Knowledge of language policies and
relevant prescripts, Proficiency in languages, Editing/translation skills
184
Computer literacy Knowledge of grammatical and orthography rules. Report
writing skills, Ability to work under pressure; Analytical skills; Planning and
organising skills; Supervisory skills, Project management skills.
DUTIES : Provide, coordinate and monitor translation, editing and interpreting services.
Receive translation, editing and interpreting requests, keep record in the
common register. Coordinate the provision of translation, editing and
interpreting services. Provide translation, editing and interpreting services. Edit
official documents translated and/or edited by Language Practitioners for
quality assurance. Edit official documents Translate urgent and technical
documents. Archive all translated and edited documents electronically; Report
on progress. Identify and excerpt technical terms from translated documents
.Give advice, guidance and support to Language Practitioners with regards to
their translated and/or edited work. Attend to queries by clients regarding
translation. Coordinate the outsourcing of documents needed for languages
not available in-house. Manage resources of the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Nontsikelelo Zwane Tel No: (013) 766 5085
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 2, Mbombela or emailed to dcsrmborecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 21/268 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LANGUAGES (SISWATI) REF NO: DCSR/07/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification (NQF level 6) in Languages or equivalent
qualification as recognized by SAQA; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in a
translation services work environment; Language requirement: Major in
SiSwati; Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service statutory
frameworks: Financial Management and regulatory framework/ guidelines,
Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations, Public
Finance Management Act, Basic Condition of Employment Act, Labour
Relations Act and Government initiatives and decisions; Understanding of
Code of Conduct; Knowledge of Departmental interpretation and application of
policies and Administration of office. Skills and Competencies: Applied
strategic thinking; Applied technology; Budgeting and financial management;
Communication and information management; Continuous improvement;
Citizen focus and responsiveness; Diversity management; Impact and
influence; Managing interpersonal conflict and resolving problems; Computer
literacy; Planning and organising; Project management; Team leadership and
a valid drivers license. Competencies: Knowledge of language policies and
relevant prescripts, Proficiency in languages, Editing/translation skills
Computer literacy; Good written and verbal communication and interpersonal
skills; Knowledge of grammatical and orthography rules. Report writing skills,
Ability to work under pressure; Analytical skills; Planning and organising skills;
Supervisory skills, Project management skills.
DUTIES : Provide, coordinate and monitor translation, editing and interpreting services.
Receive translation, editing and interpreting requests, keep record in the
common register. Coordinate the provision of translation, editing and
interpreting services. Provide translation, editing and interpreting services. Edit
official documents translated and/or edited by Language Practitioners for
quality assurance. Edit official documents Translate urgent and technical
documents. Archive all translated and edited documents electronically; Report
on progress. Identify and excerpt technical terms from translated documents.
Give advice, guidance and support to Language Practitioners with regards to
their translated and/or edited work. Attend to queries by clients regarding
translation. Coordinate the outsourcing of documents needed for languages
not available in-house. Manage resources of the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Nontsikelelo Zwane Tel No: (013) 766 5085
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 2, Mbombela or emailed to dcsrmborecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 21/269 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LANGUAGES (XITSONGA) REF NO:
DCSR/08/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification (NQF level 6) in Languages or equivalent
qualification as recognized by SAQA; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in a
185
translation services work environment; Language requirement: Major in
Xitsonga; Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service statutory
frameworks: Financial Management and regulatory framework/ guidelines,
Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations, Public
Finance Management Act, Basic Condition of Employment Act, Labour
Relations Act and Government initiatives and decisions; Understanding of
Code of Conduct; Knowledge of Departmental interpretation and application of
policies and Administration of office. Skills and Competencies: Applied
strategic thinking; Applied technology; Budgeting and financial management;
Communication and information management; Continuous improvement;
Citizen focus and responsiveness; Diversity management; Impact and
influence; Managing interpersonal conflict and resolving problems; Computer
literacy; Planning and organising; Project management; Team leadership and
a valid drivers license.
DUTIES : Provide, coordinate, monitor translation, editing and interpreting services.
Receive translation, editing and interpreting requests. Keep records in the
common register. Coordinate the provision of translation, editing and
interpreting services. Provide translation, editing and interpreting services. Edit
official documents translated and/or edited by Language Practitioners for
quality assurance. Edit official documents, translate urgent and technical
documents. Archive all translated and edited documents electronically; Report
on progress. Identify and except technical terms from translated documents.
Give advice, guidance and support to language Practitioners with regards to
their translated and / edited work. Attend to queries by clients regarding
translation. Coordinate the outsourcing of documents needed for Languages
not available in-house. Manage the resources of the division.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Nontsikelelo Zwane Tel No: (013) 766 5085
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 2, Mbombela or emailed to dcsrmborecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 21/270 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LIBRARY BOOKS PROVISIONING & SUPPORT
REF NO: DCSR/09/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A four-year degree in Library and Information Science or a Higher Diploma in
Library and Information Science. Substantial knowledge and at least three
years’ experience in library book collection. In-depth knowledge of cataloguing
standards (RDA, MARC etc.) Knowledge of Library Management Systems as
applied in library environment. Knowledge of the PFMA and library prescripts.
Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide leadership and oversight for all cataloguing activities across the
Department and Municipalities. Develop and implement cataloguing policies,
procedures and standards in line with the best practices. Supervise and
support cataloguing teams, ensuring professional development and high
quality output. Compile annual budget and monitor expenditure. Evaluate
employee performance and provide mentoring and guidance as needed.
Monitor maintenance of the collection of information resources and the use of
assets. Consolidate monthly, quarterly and annual reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Clement Mahlalela Tel No: (013) 766 5343
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 2, Mbombela or emailed to dcsrmborecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 21/271 : OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY OFFICER REF NO: DCSR/10/2025
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A 3 year Degree/National Diploma in Environmental Health with 2 years in
relevant working environment, knowledge in Public Service Regulations,
Financial procedures, Treasury Regulations and Basic Accounting System
(BAS) systems. Skills required: Computer literacy (Ms Word, Excel,
Powerpoint, etc.) good communication skills (written and verbal). Good
interpersonal relations, organizing and Planning, Analytical, Problem solving
and Financial Management skills. Knowledge of OHSA 85 0f 1993 and the
Department of Labour and Employment standards.
DUTIES : Development/Review policies and guidelines on Safety, Health Environment.
Risk and quality (SHERQ) in the Department. Coordinate Safety, Health
186
environment and risk and quality training. Coordinate establishment and the
functioning of the Safety Committees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Clement Mahlalela Tel No: (013) 766 5343
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 2, Mbombela or emailed to dcsrmborecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 21/272 : LIBRARIAN REF NO: DCSR/20/2025
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Ethandukhanya Public Library
REQUIREMENTS : B.Bibl Degree/Diploma in Library and Information Science. General knowledge
of library services, computer, people and communication skills. Driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Administer functions of the library, market the library service, research on user
and prospective user needs, attend to circulation of library material and assist
in other functions of the library where required, information storage and
retrieval and reporting procedures. Assist with opening of new libraries,
develop and revise promotional projects and special/events.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Simon Shabangu Tel No: (017) 811 6196
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to 20A De Clerk Street Mutual & Federal
Building or emailed to dcsrgsrecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 21/273 : LANGUAGE PRACTITIONER: ISINDEBELE REF NO: DCSR/11/2025 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree/National Diploma in Languages or equivalent qualification with
specialization in isiNdebele as recognized by SAQA. Good command of
English, and isiNdebele (both written and verbal). Computer literacy.
Competencies: Knowledge of language rules, grammar and orthography.
Knowledge of Language Policies. Ability to work independently and under
pressure. Capacity to remain confidential. Computer Literacy. Written and
verbal Communication skills. Good interpersonal relations and ability to work
as a team.
DUTIES : Translation and proofreading of official documents. Provide interpreting service
when required. Conduct research on matters related to Translation,
Interpreting and Editing. Liaise with relevant stakeholders. Promote
multilingualism and indigenous languages including the South African Sign
Language. Support the Mpumalanga Provincial Language Committee.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Nontsikelelo Zwane Tel No: (013) 766 5085
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 2, Mbombela or emailed to dcsrmborecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 21/274 : LANGUAGE PRACTITIONER: SISWATI REF NO: DCSR/12/2025 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree/National Diploma in Languages or equivalent qualification with
specialization in Siswati as recognized by SAQA. Good command of English,
and Siswati (both written and verbal). Computer literacy. Competencies:
Knowledge of language rules, grammar and orthography. Knowledge of
Language Policies. Ability to work independently and under pressure. Capacity
to remain confidential. Computer Literacy. Written and verbal Communication
skills. Good interpersonal relations and ability to work as a team.
DUTIES : Translation and proofreading of official documents. Provide interpreting service
when required. Conduct research on matters related to Translation,
Interpreting and Editing. Liaise with relevant stakeholders. Promote
multilingualism and indigenous languages including the South African Sign
Language. Support the Mpumalanga Provincial Language Committee.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Nontsikelelo Zwane Tel No: (013) 766 5085
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 2, Mbombela or emailed to dcsrmborecruit@mpg.gov.za
187
POST 21/275 : LANGUAGE PRACTITIONER: XITSONGA REF NO: DCSR/13/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree/National Diploma in Languages or equivalent qualification with
specialization in Xitsonga as recognized by SAQA. Good command of English,
and Xitsonga (both written and verbal). Computer literacy. Competencies:
Knowledge of language rules, grammar and orthography. Knowledge of
Language Policies. Ability to work independently and under pressure. Capacity
to remain confidential. Computer Literacy. Written and verbal Communication
skills. Good interpersonal relations and ability to work as a team.
DUTIES : Translation and proofreading of official documents. Provide interpreting service
when required. Conduct research on matters related to Translation,
Interpreting and Editing. Liaise with relevant stakeholders. Promote
multilingualism and indigenous languages including the South African Sign
Language. Support the Mpumalanga Provincial Language Committee.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Nontsikelelo Zwane Tel No: (013) 766 5085
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 2, Mbombela or emailed to dcsrmborecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 21/276 : LANGUAGE PRACTITIONER: ISIZULU REF NO: DCSR/14/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree/National Diploma in Languages or equivalent qualification with
specialization in IsiZulu as recognized by SAQA. Good command of English,
and isiZulu (both written and verbal). Computer literacy. Competencies:
Knowledge of Language rules, grammar and orthography. Knowledge of
Language Policies. Ability to work independently and under pressure. Capacity
to remain confidential. Computer Literacy. Written and verbal Communication
skills. Good interpersonal relations and ability to work as a team.
DUTIES : Translation and proofreading of official documents. Provide interpreting service
when required. Conduct research on matters related to translation, interpreting
and editing. Liaise with relevant stakeholders. Promote multilingualism and
indigenous languages including the South African Sign Language. Support the
Mpumalanga Provincial Language Committee.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Nontsikelelo Zwane Tel No: (013) 766 5085
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 2, Mbombela or emailed to dcsrmborecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 21/277 : CULTURAL OFFICER REF NO: DCSR/15/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree/National Diploma in Arts or equivalent qualification. Must
be Computer literate, willingness to travel extensively and a valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Identify, develop and promote (emerging) artists and crafters as well as
implanting projects related to performing and visual and craft. Create
awareness programmes for craft, performing and visual arts. Conduct needs
analysis and provide professional advice on performing, visual arts and crafts.
Render administrative functions in relation to the programmes that are
implemented.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Samkelisiwe Lushaba-Mambane Tel No: (013) 766 5245
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 2, Mbombela or emailed to dcsrmborecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 21/278 : CULTURAL OFFICER REF NO: DCSR/16/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala Region
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree/National Diploma in Arts or equivalent qualification. Must
be Computer literate, willingness to travel extensively and a valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Identify, develop and promote (emerging) artists and crafters as well as
implanting projects related to performing and visual and craft. Create
awareness programmes for craft, performing and visual arts. Conduct needs
188
analysis and provide professional advice on performing, visual arts and crafts.
Render administrative functions in relation to the programmes that are
implemented.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Dina Ntuli Tel No: (013) 766 8339
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at Dr. Esther Nostokana Mahlangu
Building Government Complex, Nkangala or emailed to
dcsrnkangarecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 21/279 : SPORT PROMOTION OFFICER REF NO: DCSR/18/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Gert-Sibande Region
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree/National Diploma in Sport Management or equivalent
qualification and a valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Coordinate the establishment and provide support to sport and recreation
structures in schools, wards and local areas, in conjunction with stakeholders.
Facilitate sustainable capacity development programmes in sport within the
schools wards, local areas and districts. Implement sport and recreation
programmes in schools, wards and local areas for development of sport and
recreation. Monitor and evaluate the compliance with sport and recreation and
transformational policies. Render administrative function in relation to
programmes that are implemented.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Simon Shabangu Tel No: (017) 811 6196
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to 20A De Clerk Street Mutual & Federal
Building or emailed to dcsrgsrecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 21/280 : SPORT PROMOTION OFFICER REF NO: DCSR/19/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni Region
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree/National Diploma in Sport Management or equivalent
qualification and a valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Coordinate the establishment and provide support to sport and recreation
structures in schools, wards and local areas, in conjunction with stakeholders.
Facilitate sustainable capacity development programmes in sport within the
schools wards, local areas and districts. Implement sport and recreation
programmes in schools, wards and local areas for development of sport and
recreation. Monitor and evaluate the compliance with sport and recreation and
transformational policies. Render administrative function in relation to
programmes that are implemented.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Nqobile Tshuma Tel No: (013) 766 5656
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 2, Mbombela or emailed to dcsrmborecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 21/281 : AUXILIARY SERVICE OFFICER (TOUR GUIDE) REF NO: DCSR/22/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Barberton Museum
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate and a Certificate in Tour Guide. The candidate should be a
registered Tour Guide with good communication skills and Valid driver’s
licence.
DUTIES : Conduct tours for tourist and learners. Be responsible for the preservation of
relevant historical collections. Supervise the maintenance of relevant historic
terrain. Participate in conducting museum outreach programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ncobile Tshuma Tel No: (013) 766 5656
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 2, Mbombela or emailed to dcsrmborecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 21/282 : LIBRARY ASSISTANT/CYBER CADET REF NO: DCSR/21/2025
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Ethandukhanya Public Library
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and Certificate in IT-related studies, good verbal and written
communication skills, understanding of troubleshooting and maintaining
Windows XP operating systems software. Experience in IT and of working in a
public library will be an added advantage.
189
DUTIES : To assist library users on how to do electronic information searches on CD and
DVD, encyclopaedia, Internet, do searches for school projects and assignment,
create e-mail accounts for library users, teach users how to connect to their
mail, teach users how to produce electronic documents and other documents
like CV’s, business cards. Monitor workstations usage by library users, help
users to do CV’s. Open files for projects, file them and update them.
Administration procedures relating to libraries; filing; shelving and storage of
library material; information retrieval processes; processing of library material
and assisting with other library functions as required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Simon Shabangu Tel No: (017) 811 6196
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to 20A De Clerk Street Mutual & Federal
Building or emailed to dcsrgsrecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 21/283 : SECRETARY TO THE DIRECTOR: COMMUNICATION REF NO:
DCSR/17/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, Secretariat/Office administration Diploma or an appropriate
equivalent qualification, previous secretarial or office administration experience
and a valid driver’s license will be an added advantage. Skills required: Good
telephone etiquette, computer literate (Ms. Word, Excel, Powerpoint, etc.) good
communication skills (written and verbal). Good interpersonal relations skills,
knowledge of Batho Pele Principles, ability to work under pressure, high level
or reliability and confidentiality. Able to work independently as well as
functioning in a team environment.
DUTIES : Provide efficient and effective administrative support to the division, Manage
incoming and outgoing correspondence, prepare logistics for meetings, take
minutes and recording of proceedings during the programme meetings,
responsible for travel arrangements, accommodation and process all
requisitions and invoices that emanates from the work activities of the Office,
handle procurement of the standard items like stationary, refreshments etc.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Samkelisiwe Lushaba-Mambane Tel No: (013) 766 5245
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 2, Mbombela or emailed to dcsrmborecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 21/284 : ADMIN CLERK REF NO: DCSR/23/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande Region
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior certificate or equivalent qualification, computer literacy and a drivers
licence.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component. Provide personnel administration clerical
support services within the component. Provide financial administration
support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Simon Shabangu Tel No: (017) 811 6196
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to 20A De Clerk Street Mutual & Federal
Building or emailed to dcsrgsrecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 21/285 : ASSET CLERK REF NO: DCSR/24/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and a recognized Certificate in SCM/National Diploma or equivalent
qualification, Basic knowledge of supply chain duties, practices as well as the
ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Basic
knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service. Basic knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working
environment.
DUTIES : Physically receive all newly procured assets, inventory consumables and those
held for distribution towards service delivery mandate. Complete Simultaneous
Receipts and Issue voucher with Asset Tracking Number per his/her Region.
Amend Machinery and Equipment with Original Equipment number (OEM)
LOGIS SELECTION: Asset Register Maintenance per asset to be approved by
the Asset Controller on Asset Register Maintenance Authorisation. Obtain
190
Report RR032 and conduct physical asset verification, record on RR032
physical asset verification findings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Simon Shabangu Tel No: (017) 811 6196
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to 20A De Clerk Street Mutual & Federal
Building or emailed to dcsrgsrecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 21/286 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: DCSR/25/2025
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Ethandukhanya Public Library
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET level 4 Certificate (Grade 9). Knowledge of garden maintenance and
planting practices. Basic understanding of government legislations. Knowledge
and understanding of health and safety procedures.
DUTIES : Maintain gardening services in the premises and surrounding through watering
the gardening, prune, trim flowers and tree. Grass mowing, remove weeds and
garden fuse. Apply insecticide; cultivate the soil for trees and flowers. Maintain
gardening equipment’s and tools. Repair minor defect of gardening tools.
Assist with on/off loading of deliveries. Washing and cleaning of GG’s vehicle.
Empty dirty dustbin services in the Museum and assist with other tasks/duties
as and when required by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Simon Shabangu Tel No: (017) 811 6196
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to 20A De Clerk Street Mutual & Federal
Building or emailed to dcsrgsrecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 21/287 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: DCSR/26/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Kgodwana Cultural Village
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET Level 4 Certificate (Grade 9). Good communication and interpersonal
skills.
DUTIES : Application of cow dung decoration (ukukghuphula) on basic floor of traditional
huts Identification and collection of indigenous raw material such as ant heaps
(idzwili), cow dung (ubolongwe) traditional grass rope (ikofe) and the natural
earth colour material (ipembe) decoration. Ability to mix plater soil and cow
dung. Performance of all kinds of traditional plastering and mud work
(ukusinda). Knowledge of the weaving of the traditional grass rope (ikofe).
Understanding and ability to perform mural indigenous IsiNdebele paintings
(ukugwala). Cleaning of the traditional huts and homestead inside and the
surroundings. Demonstrations of traditional indigenous way of living to the
cultural village tourists.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Dina Ntuli Tel No: (013) 766 8339
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at Dr. Esther Nostokana Mahlangu
Building Government Complex, Nkangala or emailed to
dcsrnkangarecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 21/288 : CLEANER REF NO: DCSR/27/2025
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Ethandukhanya Public Library
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET level 4 certificate (Grade 9). Knowledge of cleaning equipment to be
use. Knowledge of health and safety requirements. Basic understanding of
applying safety rules. Basic understanding of applying or using chemicals
correctly. Good communication interpersonal relations. Corporate cleaning
experience will be an advantage.
DUTIES : The provision of cleaning services. Keep and maintain cleaning materials and
equipment. Dusting, waxing, sweeping, disinfecting, scrubbing, and vacuuming
of floors and doors. Emptying and cleaning dirty bins. Collecting and removing
of waste paper. Freshening up office areas. Clean the general kitchen basins
wash and keep stock of kitchen utensils. Cleaning the library offices and
boardrooms. Report broken machines. Request cleaning materials. Assist with
other duties as and when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Simon Shabangu Tel No: (017) 811 6196
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered to 20A De Clerk Street Mutual & Federal
Building or emailed to dcsrgsrecruit@mpg.gov.za
191
POST 21/289 : CLEANER REF NO: DCSR/28/2025
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Botleng Public Library
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET level 4 certificate (Grade 9). Knowledge of cleaning equipment to be
use. Knowledge of health and safety requirements. Basic understanding of
applying safety rules. Basic understanding of applying or using chemicals
correctly. Good communication interpersonal relations. Corporate cleaning
experience will be an advantage.
DUTIES : The provision of cleaning services. Keep and maintain cleaning materials and
equipment. Dusting, waxing, sweeping, disinfecting, scrubbing, and vacuuming
of floors and doors. Emptying and cleaning dirty bins. Collecting and removing
of waste paper. Freshening up office areas. Clean the general kitchen basins
wash and keep stock of kitchen utensils. Cleaning the library offices and
boardrooms. Report broken machines. Request cleaning materials. Assist with
other duties as and when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Dina Ntuli Tel No: (013) 766 8339
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at Dr. Esther Nostokana Mahlangu
Building Government Complex, Nkangala or emailed to
dcsrnkangarecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 21/290 : CLEANER REF NO: DCSR/29/2025
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Zithabiseng Public Library
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET level 4 certificate (Grade 9). Knowledge of cleaning equipment to be
use. Knowledge of health and safety requirements. Basic understanding of
applying safety rules. Basic understanding of applying or using chemicals
correctly. Good communication interpersonal relations. Corporate cleaning
experience will be an advantage.
DUTIES : The provision of cleaning services. Keep and maintain cleaning materials and
equipment. Dusting, waxing, sweeping, disinfecting, scrubbing, and vacuuming
of floors and doors. Emptying and cleaning dirty bins. Collecting and removing
of waste paper. Freshening up office areas. Clean the general kitchen basins
wash and keep stock of kitchen utensils. Cleaning the library offices and
boardrooms. Report broken machines. Request cleaning materials. Assist with
other duties as and when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Dina Ntuli Tel No: (013) 766 8339
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at Dr. Esther Nostokana Mahlangu
Building Government Complex, Nkangala or emailed to
dcsrnkangarecruit@mpg.gov.za
POST 21/291 : CLEANER REF NO: DCSR/30/2025
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Barberton Musuem
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET level 4 certificate (Grade 9). Knowledge of cleaning equipment to be
use. Knowledge of health and safety requirements. Basic understanding of
applying safety rules. Basic understanding of applying or using chemicals
correctly. Good communication interpersonal relations. Corporate cleaning
experience will be an advantage.
DUTIES : The provision of cleaning services. Keep and maintain cleaning materials and
equipment. Dusting, waxing, sweeping, disinfecting, scrubbing, and vacuuming
of floors and doors. Emptying and cleaning dirty bins. Collecting and removing
of waste paper. Freshening up office areas. Clean the general kitchen basins
wash and keep stock of kitchen utensils. Cleaning the library offices and
boardrooms. Report broken machines. Request cleaning materials. Assist with
other duties as and when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Nqobile Tshuma Tel No: (013) 766 5656
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand delivered at 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside
Park, Extension 2, Mbombela or emailed to recruitment@gcis.gov.za
192
ANNEXURE O
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTH WEST
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY SAFETY AND TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT
This Department is an Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Employer. It is our intention to promote
representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Department through the filling of these posts and
candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity will receive preference. An
indication in this regard will facilitate the processing of applications.
APPLICATIONS : The Head of Department, Department of Community Safety and Transport
Management, Private Bag X19, Mmabatho, 2735 Office No. 105, 1st Floor,
Tirelo Building, Cnr Albert Luthuli Drive and Dr. James Moroka Drive, for
Attention Kegomoditswe Makaota Tel No: (018) 200 8258 OR email to the
relevant e-mail address associated with the post applied for.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the improved Z83, approved to be utilized
with effect 01 January 2021, which must be completed in such a manner that
provides sufficient information about your candidature and the post applied for
by completing all relevant fields. The declaration must be signed and initials on
the second page are not mandatory. Should the applicant/s use incorrect
application form for employment (Z83), or not compliant to the notes, the
application/s will not be considered for selection purposes (disqualified). The
Z83 must be accompanied by detailed Curriculum Vitae with at least three (3)
names of referees with current contact details. Subjects of relevant
qualification/s should be mentioned in the CV. Completion of the Z83 form: Part
A: All fields must be fully completed. Parts B: All fields except date of birth and
ID number. Part C, D, E, F and G may be left blank, marked as not relevant,
and use dashes or N/A if they do not apply to you or the position applied for
and as long as the CV has been attached and provides the required
information, however question related to conditions that prevent re-
appointment under Part F is compulsory for applicants seeking re-employment
into the Public Service. Applicants do not have to submit
copies//proof/certificates/attachments/drivers licence/qualifications on
application, only shortlisted candidates for the post will be required to submit
certified documents on or before the day of the interviews. The employment
application form (Z83) is obtainable at any National or Provincial Department,
and it is accessible on the DPSA web-site, www.dpsa.gov.za Failure to submit
or comply with the requested documents will result in the application not being
considered. Should the applicant fail to submit or not comply with the requested
documents, or not meet minimum requirements of the job as per the post
advertised, this will result in the employment application not being considered.
Qualifications of shortlisted candidates will be verified with SAQA. Persons in
possession of a foreign qualification must furnish this Department with an
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA),
(Only when shortlisted). Candidates must indicate the number of the
post/reference number in their applications. Candidates requiring additional
information regarding an advertised post must direct their queries to the person
reflected as enquiries below the post applied for. Applications should be
forwarded in time to the department since applications received after the
closing date indicated below will as a rule not be accepted. It will be expected
of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a date, time and place
as determined by the Department. The Department reserves the right not to
make appointments and correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. Personnel suitability check records will be conducted.
Applicants must disclose if she/he is not a Director/Shareholder of a company
or conducting any business with organ of State. They must also disclose or
inform whether he/she is performing any additional remunerative work outside
his /her normal duties. All appointments are subjected to a positive
qualifications verification as well as security clearance. SMS appointments are
also subjected to SMS competency assessment as a DPSA requirement. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts and positions with requisite skills will be
subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job. Applicants who do not possess SMS Pre-Entry Certificate
shall be considered for shortlisting and interviews, but cannot be appointed
before they successfully obtain the certificate. (SMS Pre-Entry Programme) is
offered by the National School of government, information can be accessed via
193
this link: https://www.thensg.gov.za. The appointee to SMS post must be in
possession of such, prior to taking up the post.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 21/292 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: DISTRICT COORDINATION AND GOVERNMENT
FLEET REF NO: 06/2025/26
Chief Directorate: District Coordination and Government Fleet
This is a re-advertisement; candidates who previously applied are encouraged
to reapply)
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum. The inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund, medical
fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules. The successful
candidate must enter into a performance agreement and sign employee
contract.
CENTRE : Head Office- Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. A relevant (NQF level 7) qualification in Public
Administration/Administration /equivalent qualification at NQF 7 as recognised
by SAQA coupled with five (5) years’ experience at senior management level
within Administration. Computer Literacy. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge:
Broad knowledge of Public Financial Management Act and its Regulation. In
depth knowledge of Public Service Act. Broad knowledge of Public Service
Regulation and its Regulation. Broad knowledge of Infrastructure
Management. Knowledge of Technical Standards/Procedures. Knowledge of
South African Police Service Acts and also knowledge that governs Traffic
Operations. Knowledge of Managerial Functions. Skills: Ability to interact
professionally and effectively with diverse stakeholders. An innovative,
assertive and confident approach. Ample initiative and an independent work
ethic, self-motivated and reliable. Investigation, Excellent report writing,
research, analytical thinking, decision making and problem solving skills. Client
oriented and customer focus and results driven. High level communication and
presentation skills. Ability to interact at both strategic and operational level.
Ability to work under pressure. Competencies: Strategic Capability and
Leadership, People Management and Empowerment, Programme and Project
Management, Financial Management, Change Management, Knowledge
Management, Service delivery innovation, Problem Solving and analysis,
Client orientation, Customer Focus and Communication.
DUTIES : Oversee the monitoring and evaluation of effectiveness and ensure efficiency
to the Provincial Secretariat for Police Service. Ensure monitoring and control
of Transport Regulations. Ensure the efficiency of Transport Operations in the
District. Oversee the management of Government Motor Fleet. Coordinate
District Corporate Services function. Manage and control all the resources
within the Chief Directorate. Provide Strategic Leadership.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. H Kekana Tel No: (018) 200 8001
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment03@nwpg.gov.za
NOTE : Male candidates are encouraged to apply
POST 21/293 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: TRANSPORT OPERATIONS REF NO: 07/2025/26
Chief Directorate: Transport Operations
This is a re-advertisement; candidates who previously applied are encouraged
to reapply)
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum. The inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund, medical
fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules. The successful
candidate must enter into a performance agreement and sign employee
contract.
CENTRE : Head Office- Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. A relevant (NQF level 7) qualification in Transport
Management, Transport Economics or Transport Logistics/equivalent
qualification at NQF 7 as recognised by SAQA coupled with five (5) years’
experience at senior management level (SL13) within the Transport
Environment. Computer Literacy. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Broad
knowledge and understanding of Government Policies and other relevant
prescripts. In depth knowledge of legislative prescripts governing Transport
Sector. Ability to conceptualise policy and apply it successfully. Policy analysis
194
and interpretation. Skills: Ability to interact professionally and effectively with
diverse stakeholders. An innovative, assertive and confident approach. Ample
initiative and an independent work ethic, self-motivated and reliable, Excellent
report writing, analytical thinking, decision making and problem-solving skills.
Client oriented and customer focus and results driven. High level
communication and presentation skills. Ability to interact at both strategic and
operational level. Computer Literacy. Ability to work under pressure.
Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership, People Management and
Empowerment, Programme and Project Management, Financial Management,
Change Management, Knowledge Management, Service delivery innovation,
Problem Solving and analysis, Client orientation, Customer Focus and
Communication.
DUTIES : Oversee the development and maintenance of Transport policies, legislations,
information systems as well as the planning process thereof. Oversee the
management of Transport Operations within the province. Manage Public
Passenger and Leaner Transport Subsidized Contracts. Oversee the
implementation and maintenance of Provincial Aviation matters. Oversee the
management, monitoring and regulation of Public Transport in the province.
Ensure the successful empowerment, capacitation, and liaison with all Public
Transport Stakeholders. Manage and control all the resources within the Chief
Directorate. Provide Strategic Leadership.
ENQUIRIES : Dr H Kekana Tel No: (018) 200 8001
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: CSTMrecruitment04@nwpg.gov.za
NOTE : Female candidates are encouraged to apply
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND ROADS
This Department is an Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Employer. It is our intention to promote
representatively (race, gender and disability) e.g. White, Indian, Coloured and African, in terms of equity
plan preference will be given to Disabilities, Youth, Females in the Department through the filling of
posts. People with disability are encouraged to apply. The candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representatively will receive preference. An indication in
this regard will facilitate the processing of applications.
APPLICATIONS : All Applications must be submitted online, Or Hand delivered to Registry Office
no. 133, Ground Floor, East Wing - Old Parliament Building Complex, Modiri
Molema Road, Mmabatho, or addressed to: Human Resource Manager, Public
Works and Roads, Private Bag X2080, Mmabatho, 2735. Use the correct E-
mail: DPWRHORecruit@nwpg.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : HRM Recruitment - Mr. M.E Khauoe
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025 (posted/handed, e-mailed applications must have reached the
Department by 16h30 pm Walk-in and 00h00 Mid-night online will, as a rule not
be accepted).
NOTE : Please note: On the Subject Line of your E-mail, Indicate the Correct Job Title
and the Reference number of the post. All attachments for online submission
must include the Z83 Form and Curriculum Vitae only be in PDF format, as one
document. Failure to do so, your application will be disqualified. Compliance: It
is compulsory to fill all fields on the New Amended Z83 Form (81/971431) as
prescribed with effect 01 January 2021, is obtainable from any Public Service,
Departments or on the DPSA Website, www.dpsa.gov.za. Part A must be fully
completed by the applicant’s indicate correct advertised Post name and
Reference number, Centre, Notice period on the z83 form. Z83 form part of
declaration must be signed, dated and initialled only on the first page. The Z83
Form must be accompanied by a recently updated/ detailed Curriculum Vitae.
The personal details and the subjects of relevant qualification, should be
mentioned on the CV, also clearly indicating current positions held in sequential
period. Outline or provide the sufficient information about related experience
and key responsibilities with respective dates and include three (3) names
contactable referees. Part B, C and D must be fully completed, however B, C,
E on the space that indicate date of birth/ work permit, preferred language,
current study, may be left blank if not relevant to you. Part E, F and G do not
need to be completed if the CV has provided the required information. Part F
is compulsory to be completed for applicants seeking re- employment into
Public Service. Please note: It is a responsibility of a Person in possession of
a foreign qualification to furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate
from South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Only
shortlisted candidate(s) for post will be required to submit certified documents
on or before the day of the interview. Senior Management Pre-entry
195
Programme Certificate: No applicant shall be recommended for appointment
without producing a Certificate of completion (Nyukela) obtain via this link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za. Failure to submit the requested information will
result in your application not being considered. The e-mailed applications will
be accepted. Applications received after the closing date will, as a rule not be
accepted. It will be expected of candidates to be available for interview process
on a date, time and place as determined by the Department. Applicant’s
previous information as background/reference checks will be verified through
contactable referees. Shortlisted candidate(s) will be required to undergo
personnel suitability checks and will be subjected to security screening which
include, criminal records, citizenship, financial credits, asset records,
qualifications verification and vetting. The Department reserves the right not to
make any appointments to the advertised posts. The successful candidate will
enter into an annual performance agreement, and annually disclose his/her
financial interest. NB: Salary Level 1-12, all shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to practical exercise and integrity assessment test. All shortlisted
candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical competency exercise
that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job. Recommend
candidate(s) will be required to attend generic managerial competencies using
the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Applicant requiring
additional information regarding advertised post must direct their enquiries to
the relevant person indicated. NB: Communication and Correspondence will
be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not receive any response
from us within three months after closing date, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful.
MANGEMENT ECHELON
POST 21/294 : DIRECTOR: PLANNING AND INFORMATION REF NO: H/O 12/2025 (X1
POST)
Re-advert, applicants who previously applied are encouraged to apply.
SALARY : R1 216 824 per annum (Level 13), an all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus a Bachelor’s Degree (NQF
Level 7) in Financial Management/ Financial Accounting/ Auditing/ Cost
Management and Accounting/ Property Studies/ Town & Regional Planning/
Real Estate/ Property Valuation. Senior Management Pre-entry Programme
(Nyukela Certificate). Experience: Five (5) years’ of relevant experience at
middle/ senior managerial level. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge:
Knowledge of the North West Land Administration Act, Government Immovable
Asset Management Act (GIAMA), Public Service Regulation, Public Service
Act, Supply Chain Management Practices, Government procurement systems
and related legislation (e.g. PPPFA and PFMA), Treasury Regulations,
Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS) Act. Understanding of
building management legislation. Competencies in terms of the SMS
Competency Framework. Compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety
Act. Knowledge of labour intensive mode. Skills: Technical consulting skills.
Strategic capability and leadership skills. Programme and project management
skills. Financial Management. Change management. Service Delivery
Innovation. Problem solving and Analytical thinking. Client Orientation and
customer focus. Good communication and interpersonal relations. Ability to
work under pressure, willingness to travel and work beyond normal working
hours.
DUTIES : Manage the immovable asset management policies and strategies. Design and
maintain the Provincial Asset Register System. Co-ordinate vesting of
properties. Manage proclamations and inherent legislation. Manage financial
assets accounts and reporting. Manage the property payments. Manage the
administration of the Provincial Residential Housing Portfolio. Co-ordinate the
review and update of residential lease database. Co-ordinate tenants
verification process during and after allocation process. Develop policies and
procedures for the management of state owned residences. Ensure effective
co-ordination and administration of residential leases at District offices.
Manage land administration and administer town planning services. Manage
commercial lease and implement alternative acquisition strategies. Manage
the resources in the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. NMG Mfikwe Tel No: (018) 388 2426
196
ANNEXURE P
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference.
OTHER POSTS
POST 21/295 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (MEDICAL GENETICS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs).
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Medical Genetics. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Medical
Genetics. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in Medical Genetics. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
(or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign
qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Medical Genetics. Grade 3: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in
Medical Genetics. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy. Strong ethical
principles. Knowledge of relevant medico-legal matters. Leadership and
organisational skills. Interpersonal skills. Ability to initiate own research
projects and supervise research projects. Relevant clinical and counselling
skills. Experience of under- and postgraduate teaching in the health sciences.
Excellent written and verbal communication skills. It will be expected of the
successful candidate to participate in a system of remunerated commuted
overtime.
DUTIES : Provide comprehensive clinical care to patients with genetic defects or
congenital anomalies, including cascade testing. Examination of pregnancy
losses and arrange appropriate testing with view of future counselling. Provide
comprehensive genetic counselling. Provide advice to doctors and other health
professionals including pro-active education and guidance. Provide advice on
laboratory investigations and review laboratory results. Supervise and provide
training to registrars. Assist with training of under- and postgraduate students
across service platform. Develop, implement and supervise research projects.
Perform appropriate outreach screening and counselling services.
ENQUIRIES : Prof. S. Moosa Tel No: (021) 938-4217/9218
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
as Medical Specialist in Medical Genetics with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
197
POST 21/296 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (RADIOLOGY) (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs).
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital (X2 Posts)
Worcester Hospital (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Radiology. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Radiology. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Radiology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical
Specialist in Radiology. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist in Radiology. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence, willingness and ability to travel.
Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Ability to oversee and report on all
radiological studies and procedures. Preferred special interest in
musculoskeletal radiology. Work with a team of hospital clinicians to optimise
patient services. Knowledge and understanding of relevant legislation, hospital
procedures and policies. Excellent written and verbal communication skills. It
will be expected of the successful candidate to participate in a system of
remunerated commuted overtime and community outreach.
DUTIES : Clinical imaging service provision in reporting and of all imaging modalities.
Ensure maintenance of quality care standard in radiology services. Guide staff,
teaching, training and supervision of staff. Efficient use of resources, manage
assets, consumables and services effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Prof C Ackerman Tel No: (021) 938-5622
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
as Medical Specialist in Radiology with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/297 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (PSYCHIATRY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs).
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Psychiatry Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in
Psychiatry. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees) as Medical
Specialist in Psychiatry. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
198
employees) as Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Inherent requirements of the
job: Commuted overtime contract is compulsory, as well as ability to work after-
hours. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license, as well as willingness and ability to
travel. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Knowledge of a public health
approach to delivering integrated psychiatric services. Ability to work in
integrated multi-disciplinary teams across platforms. Clinical, leadership,
administrative, teaching and mentoring skills. Computer literacy (MS office:
Word, Excel, Outlook). Creativity to develop new ideas which can result in
positive changes to existing processes. Appropriate experience in Psychiatry
(all age groups). Ability and experience in teaching.
DUTIES : Specialist psychiatric care to patients (all age groups) at George Regional
Hospital and at selected major referral centers in the Garden Route & Central
Karoo districts (Rural East Ecosystem/REE). Support referral centers in the
REE by doing outreach visits and consultations on various communication
platforms. Participate in clinical governance of a growing integrated district
mental health service. Teaching and clinical supervision of junior and allied
mental health practitioners, generalists and medical students within a well-
established Rural Training Complex. Financial management by effective and
efficient use of resources. Adhere to requirements for all HR matters. Do
appropriate research to stay abreast of service and clinical developments.
ENQUIRIES : Dr BE Boon Tel No: (044) 802-4528, Email:
Bernice.Boon@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be subject to a practical test. Candidates, who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or
before the day of the interview. The concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (this includes individuals who must apply for change
in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/298 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (ANAESTHETICS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs).
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in
Anaesthesiology. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA
as Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
(or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign
qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Grade 3: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of foreign qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in
Anaesthesiology. Inherent requirements of the job: Commuted overtime is
compulsory. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Proven record of effective
leadership and organisational ability in clinical Anaesthesia and Perioperative
Medicine. Comprehensive skills and experience in leadership, administration
and management related to anaesthesia and peri-operative medicine.
Computer literacy, good communication, analytic and problem-solving skills.
Insight into challenges in Health Care in South Africa and Africa, and diversity,
transformation and equity. Ability to function well in a team environment and a
team player, with good inter-personal skills. Strong moral and ethical record in
anaesthetic practice. Strong educational or teaching experience background in
both the under and post-graduate domains. Willingness to participate in the
CMSA exams. MMed in Anaesthesia. Research experience.
199
DUTIES : The management of specialist anaesthetic patients within the Department and
at related hospitals to Groote Schuur, Red Cross War Memorial Children's,
New Somerset and Mowbray Maternity Hospitals. Provide comprehensive
clinical services. Provide academic leadership in the areas of under - and
postgraduate teaching, training and research. Build and maintain Departmental
team spirit and development. Organise and contribute to the anaesthetic skills
training courses. Contribute to the administration and management of the
department and provide outreach and support to referring institutions. Manage
and provide leadership to colleagues and contribute significantly to the
administrative duties of the combined department including, assessments and
performance management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Wyngaard Tel No: (021) 404-5004
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Please ensure that you attach an
updated CV.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/299 : ASSISTANT MANAGER: PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R1 093 611 per annum
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic qualification accredited with the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC
as a Pharmacist. Registration with a Professional Council: Current registration
with SAPC as a Pharmacist. Experience: A minimum of 3 years appropriate
experience after registration as a Pharmacist with the SAPC. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid driver’s licence (code B/BE) Prepared to register
as a tutor with SAPC as a pharmacist. Willingness to perform after hour
callouts. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in the Microsoft
Office Package. Appropriate experience in dispensing management, clinical
pharmacy and Pharmacy and Therapeutic Committee Management and
Human Resource management. Ability to work under pressure and maintain a
high standard of professionalism. Appropriate experience as a pharmacist in a
hospital environment. Appropriate supervisory experience as a pharmacist.
Knowledge of Pharmacy Act 53 of 1974 as amended, Medicines and Related
Substance Control Act 101 of 1965 as amended, GPP, Public Finance
Management Act and Supply Chain processes. Knowledge of and ability to
comply with an applicable legislation. Knowledge of Dispensing Management,
Clinical Pharmacy Management and Pharmacy and Therapeutic Committee
Management especially in the area of evidence-based medicine and
Pharmacovigilance. Good interpersonal, organisational and communication
skills.
DUTIES : Providing an effective Pharmaceutical Service, clinical and management
functions. Ensuring effective Pharmaceutical Service is being provided to
hospital patients by implementing and monitoring work procedures, policies
and guidelines. Facilitating a comprehensive dispensing process, including the
approval of items that are not on the provincial code list. Effective
implementation and monitoring of security measures to ensure the safekeeping
of all pharmaceuticals within the pharmacy complex and the hospital.
Conversing with clinicians, Head of Departments as well as Senior Hospital
Management. Monitoring and facilitating the Medicine Supply Management.
Monitor and report on medication errors/interventions in accordance with
Quality Assurance requirements. Facilitating and monitoring research. Monitor
and report on statistical data quality and maintain data integrity and liaise with
Finance and Supply Chain Management and Information Management to
assist with adherence to budgetary control and promote rational drug use.
Assisting with the development and implementation of Standard Operating
200
Procedures. Monitoring and facilitating the training and development of
pharmacy staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Silence Tel No: (021) 940 4402
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. assessment.
Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral
assessment. The pool of applicants for the post will be considered for other
similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services for a
period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/300 : PHARMACY SUPERVISOR GRADE 1
Metro Health Services
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs).
CENTRE : Du Noon CHC, Southern Western Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic qualification accredited with the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC
as a Pharmacist. Registration with a Professional Council: Current registration
with the SAPC as Pharmacist. Experience: A minimum of 3 years appropriate
experience after registration as a Pharmacist with the SAPC. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to register as a Responsible Pharmacist.
Willingness to tutor staff. Valid Driver’s License (Code B\EB or equivalent).
Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, Power
Point and Outlook). Sound Management, communication and conflict handling
skills. Ability to work accurately under pressure and maintain a high standard
of professionalism. Appropriate knowledge of National and Provincial Health
Policies and the Pharmacy Act 53 of 1974.
DUTIES : Manage and ensure effective medicine supply management (Procurement,
storage, control and distribution of pharmaceuticals) for all pharmaceuticals for
the facility and linked services in the community-based platform. Effective
monitoring of pharmaceutical expenditure, implementation and evaluation of
budgetary control measures. Manage the Chronic Dispensing Unit (CDU) and
Private Provider processes. Ensure adherence to minimum standards for
dispensing as well as accessibility to medication and pharmaceutical care to
patients. Human Resource Management which includes disciplinary
processes, performance management processes and staff development.
Promotion of rational medicine use by implementing provincial policies.
Update/ Adapt SOPs for own facilities. Represent the pharmacy department at
management level (meetings, strategic planning) and allocate pharmacy
resources for research when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Joseph Tel No: (021) 202-00981
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to do a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/301 : DEPUTY MANAGER NURSING (LEVEL 1 AND 2 HOSPITAL)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R1 028 091 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 (i.e. Degree/Diploma in
Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least 4
years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable
experience at management level. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to be on call and available in cases of
emergency. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Knowledge of the relevant
statutory and policy frameworks. Knowledge of quality assurance, infection
201
prevention control and occupational health and safety. Demonstratable
knowledge and experience of human resource and financial management.
Good organizational, interpersonal, leadership, research and creative problem-
solving skills. Ability to communicate (written and verbal) and the ability to work
on MS packages (Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook).
DUTIES : Provide guidance and leadership towards the realization of strategic goals and
objectives in participation with the executive management team. Provide
professional, technical and management support for the provision of high-
quality patient care through the management of nursing care programs.
Develop and monitor the implementation of nursing policies, programmes
regulations, practices, procedures and standards pertaining to nursing care.
Responsible for clinical governance for nursing services and advocate to
ensure the promotion of nursing ethos and professionalism. Ensure the
efficient financial planning, control, and effective use of resources in areas such
as procurement, budget control, assets and service prioritization.
Comprehensive human resource management, including staff development,
motivation and performance improvement. Utilizing technology and other
information systems to collect, monitor and analyse data to enhance service
delivery. Establish, maintain and participate in inter-professional and multi-
disciplinary teamwork to the benefit of holistic patient care. Able to apply
stakeholder engagement, change management and continuous improvement
principles to the benefit of the patients and staff of Paarl Hospital.
ENQUIRIES : Mr FM van der Watt Tel No: (021) 860 2508 or
Francois.vanderwatt@westerncape.gove.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Candidates may be subjected to a competency and practical test. No payment
of any kind is required when applying for this post. As directed by the
Department of Public Service and Administration, applicants must note that
further checks will be conducted once they are shortlisted and that their
appointment is subject to positive outcomes on these checks, which include
security clearance, qualification verification, criminal records and previous
employment.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/302 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs). (It will be expected of the successful candidate to participate
in a system of remunerated commuted overtime).
CENTRE : Lady Michaelis CDC, Southern Western Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA-qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign-qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform community
service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA- qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign-qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign- qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: A Valid driver’s
licence. Willingness to work within the Geographical area at various facilities.
202
Willingness to perform Commuted overtime at the 24-hour facilities as well as
ability to work after-hours. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and
management of general medical and surgical conditions as well as emergency
conditions at a PHC level. Experience working at a Primary Care level after
community service. Knowledge applicable to South African TB and HIV care
guidelines, mental health care and other chronic diseases, women and child
health care and management of emergencies and acute presentations.
Comprehensive, evidence based, direct patient-centred clinical service
provision at a primary care level. Computer literacy (MS Excel, Word, Outlook
etc.) and good interpersonal, organizational and teamwork skills. Ability and
willingness to perform outreach services within the Southern Western
substructure and to provide support and guidance to junior colleagues and
nurses.
DUTIES : Provide quality clinical care to outpatients and emergency clients presenting at
primary care facilities in Southern Western Substructure. This includes chronic
care, HIV and TB, women and child health, undifferentiated clients and
emergencies. Participate in skills transfer and training and development
activities. Active involvement in clinical governance activities at the facility and
in the substructure. Leadership and management at facility level.
ENQUIRIES : Dr K Murie Tel No: (021) 797-8451
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals
who must apply for change in registration status)”. Candidates will be subjected
to a practical/written and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/303 : CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R872 709 per annum
Grade 2: R1 014 705 per annum
Grade 3: R1 174 848 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Helderberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration as a Clinical Psychologist with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa (HPCSA). Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Clinical Psychologist. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as with the HPCSA as a Psychologist in respect of RSA qualified
employees. 1 Year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a
Psychologist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2:
A minimum of 8 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Psychologist in respect of RSA qualified employees. Minimum of 9 years
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 16
years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in
respect of RSA qualified employees. A minimum of 17 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Computer Literate. Willingness to travel in the
sub-district/ district to consult clients, attend and conduct meetings and training
sessions. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Knowledge and/or experience in
counselling, psychometric assessments, and identification of mental health
challenges. Work within your professional scope of practice and know when to
refer for more specialized mental health interventions, must be abreast of the
203
Mental Health Care Act and other laws and policies pertaining to the field and
have a sound knowledge of professional ethics. Computer literacy (i.e., MS
Word, PowerPoint and Excel). Good intra- and interpersonal skills aimed at
professional relational development, maintenance of good professional
relations and effective conflict resolution. Adaptable and innovative in a high-
pressured environment and to work independently and in different clinical
settings.
DUTIES : Provide high-quality clinical psychological services, including assessment,
diagnosis, and evidence-based psychotherapeutic interventions for individuals,
groups and families. Ensure the delivery of comprehensive mental health care
covering treatment, prevention, promotion and protection for mental health
care users and vulnerable groups, while upholding professional and ethical
standards. Establishing referral pathways, managing referrals, and
collaborating with multidisciplinary teams and other stakeholders. Contribute
toward rounds and programs, participate in service planning and evaluation,
and provide supervision, mentoring, and training to health workers, Registered
Counsellors, and junior doctors.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Lomas Tel No: (021) 850 4700
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This
concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the first
time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/304 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING AREA: GENERAL (NIGHT SHIFT DUTY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Service
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
Diploma/Degree in Nursing) or equivalent that allows for registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse with Psychiatry.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the South African
Nursing Council as a Professional Nurse and Psychiatry. Experience: A
minimum of 8 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration as Professional with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 3 years
of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience
at management level. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work
shifts, day/night, public holidays, weekends as required. Valid (Code B/EB)
drivers’ licence. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Computer literacy (MS
Word and Excel) and report writing skills. Demonstrate an in-depth knowledge
of nursing, public service legislation, human resources and financial
management. Good interpersonal, leadership, communication skills and a
strong sense of responsibility.
DUTIES : Overall coordination, implementation and monitoring of the strategic objectives
of nursing, the facility and the Department of Health. Effective management
and coordination of quality nursing care within set standards and within legal
and professional frameworks. Manage and facilitate both human resources
and financial aspects related to the area being managed. Management of
information systems through the collection and analysis of data, report writing
and development and implementation of relevant interventions. Policy
development and implementation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Njongonkulu Tel No: (021) 503-5077
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
204
POST 21/305 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (HEAD OF NURSING SERVICES)
West Coast District
SALARY : R693 096 per annum, (Plus, an 8% non-pensionable rural allowance of your
basic annual salary)
CENTRE : Citrusdal Hospital, Cederberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent that allows registration with South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 8 years
appropriate / recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. At least 3 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate / recognisable experience at
management level. Inherent requirements of the job: Must be prepared to work
overtime, day or night duty, when the need arises. Valid Driver’s license (Code
EB), and willingness to drive. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Ability to work
effectively and amicably at management level with people of diverse
backgrounds and beliefs. Computer literate (MS Word, Excel PowerPoint,
Outlook and Internet). Extensive knowledge and understanding of the District
Health System and Health implementation thereof as well as experience in
office administration, human resources, finance, supply chain management
and support services. Ability to accept accountability and responsibility and to
work independently and unsupervised.
DUTIES : Provide leadership and co-ordinate the nursing services within designated
levels of care. Manage human resources and financial resources. Manage
nursing research, nursing practice development and training programmes.
Clinical governance and realisation of strategic goals and objectives of the
Nursing Division. Manage nursing quality assurance programme and develop
nursing policies.
ENQUIRIES : Dr C Adams Tel No: (022) 482-2166
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/competency test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Cederberg Sub-district for a
period of three months.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/306 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING: SPECIALTY: PSYCHIATRY
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma /
degree in nursing) or equivalent that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse with Psychiatry. A post-basic
nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year accredited with the SANC
in Advanced Psychiatry Nursing Science in terms of R212. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse and
Psychiatry. Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification as mentioned above. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
driver’s licence (Code B/EB). Willingness to work shifts (day and night),
weekends and public holidays as required. Competencies (knowledge/ skills):
Demonstrate a good understanding of People Management, Financial and
material policies, protocols and practices. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, Outlook, Internet).
DUTIES : Provide leadership, management, supervision and good clinical governance of
nursing services. Provision of holistic and quality nursing care that is inclusive
of IPC\OHS compliances and patient centered within the parameters of
professional, legal and ethical practices as guided by SANC. Effective
management of human and financial resources and compliance to polices,
protocols and practices. Effective adherence to quality assurance requirements
and improvement strategies in the execution of quality nursing care and clinical
205
governance. Provide effective management support to nursing service,
hospital management including afterhours coverage and night duty.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Njongonkulu Tel No: (021) 503-5077
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for other similar posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/307 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING GRADE 1 (GENERAL)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Helderberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (diploma/degree
in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A minimum of 7 years’
appropriate / recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional nurse with the SANC in General nursing. Inherent requirements
of the job: Ability and willingness to assist with after-hours hospital cover
including weekends, public holidays and night duty relief and overtime should
the need arise. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Ability to work under
pressure and in a multi - disciplinary team context. Skilled nursing clinician able
to lead and manage the nursing unit with conflict management, problem solving
and decision-making skills; and the ability to facilitate training. Knowledge and
insight into legislation and policies, relevant to current nursing practice within
the Public Service. Basic computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and Power Point).
DUTIES : Provide leadership, supervision and direction for the provision of adequate and
efficient comprehensive holistic nursing care. Develop and implement practice
standards, protocols and indicators for quality improvement. Evaluate nursing
service practices and clinical outcomes. Resource planning and management
(human, health technology, financial and physical). Information management
and utilization of information technology. Data collection analysis and
interpretation. Facilitate effective unit management to achieve client’s
healthcare needs and service delivery targets as per Department, institution
and unit. Conduct health education and promotion. Promote and maintain
constructive working relationships with all stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Khumalo Tel No: (021) 850-4752
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment. The
pool of applicants will be considered for other similar posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/308 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING: GENERAL (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as a
Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 7 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirements
of the job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to work to work
shifts, day/ night duty, public holidays, weekends as required. Competencies
(knowledge/ skills): Good interpersonal, leadership, communication skills,
strong sense of responsibility. The ability to function independently in a
multidisciplinary team and the ability to direct the team to ensure good nursing
206
care. Demonstrate an in-depth knowledge of nursing and public service
legislation and knowledge of Human Resource and financial policies.
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook).
DUTIES : Provide leadership, management, governance and supervision of nursing
services. Ensure the provision of optimal, holistic nursing care within the
parameters of professional, legal and ethical practices. Effectively manage
human and financial resources with emphasis on compliance of policies,
practice and protocols. Ensure effective adherence to quality improvement
strategies in the execution of quality nursing care and clinical governance.
Provide effective management support to nursing services, hospital
management including afterhours coverage and night duty.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Njongonkulu Tel No: (021) 503 5077
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/309 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (GENERAL)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse and current registration (i.e. annual licencing receipt of
2025). Experience: A minimum of 7-years appropriate/recognisable experience
in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, overtime,
after hours hospital cover, weekends, and Public Holidays as required. Valid
Code B/EB driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Knowledge of
legal framework and regulations regarding nursing practice. Good leadership
and people management skills. Maintain constructive relationships with
members of the multidisciplinary teams. Computer literacy (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint and Outlook). Basic financial management skills. Good
communication (verbal and written) skills.
DUTIES : Supervise and ensure the provision of an effective and efficient patient care
through adequate nursing care. Coordinate and monitor the implementation of
nursing care plan and evaluation thereof. Provide relevant health information
to health care users to assist in achieving optimal health care and rehabilitation
of patients. Maintain constructive working relationships with nursing and other
stakeholders (i.e. inter-professional, inter-sectoral and multi-disciplinary
teamwork). Participate in the analysis, formulation and implementation of
nursing guidelines, practices, standards and procedures. Manage and monitor
proper utilization of human, financial and physical resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr I Plaatjies Tel No: (021) 360-4522
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of the
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a competency/practical and oral
assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/310 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING GRADE 1 (GENERAL UNIT: MIXED
WARD)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Knysna Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
207
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
midwife. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the South
African Nursing Council as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A
minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing.
Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Good managerial, supervisory, basic
computer (MS Office, Outlook and Teams) and decision-making skills. Ability
to function independently as well as part of a multi-disciplinary team.
Knowledge and insight of legislation and policies, relevant to current nursing
practice within the Public Service. Effective interpersonal, leadership, decision
making and conflict resolution skills.
DUTIES : Manage the clinical services and rostering of staff. Responsible for planning,
managing, coordinating and maintaining an optimal quality Nursing Service as
an Operational Manager in a Hospital setting. Participative management and
utilization of Human Resources to fulfil operational and developmental
functions in the area. Manage and monitor the Financial Resources,
consumables and equipment of the clinical area. Initiate and participate in
training, development and research within the nursing department. Deliver a
support service to the Nursing Service Department and the institution. Maintain
ethical standards and promote professional growth and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CG Wagener Tel No: (044) 302-8400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/311 : UNDERGRADUATE LECTURER NURSING GRADE 1 TO 2
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 (PN-D1) per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 (PN-D2) per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape College of Nursing Boland/Overberg
Southern Cape Karoo and Metro Campus
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification accredited with the
SANC (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse and Midwife with Psychiatry (where applicable). Post-basic qualification
in Nursing Education registered with SANC. Registration with a professional
council: Current registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as
Professional Nurse, Midwife and Psychiatry Nurse where applicable.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/ recognisable nursing
experience after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in General
Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable nursing
experience after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/
recognisable experience in Nursing Education after obtaining the 1- year post-
basic qualification in Nursing Education. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to travel. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Possess knowledge of relevant Legislation, Acts, Prescripts
and Policy frameworks informing the area of operation. Knowledge of nursing
education programmes and curriculum. Proficiency in teaching and
assessment in Nursing Education including evaluation approaches.
Knowledge of policy development, interpretation, implementation, monitoring,
and evaluation. Sound conflict management and decision making/problem
solving skills. Good research and analytical skills. Good managerial and
interpersonal skills. Computer literacy. Possess good communication (written
and verbal) and presentation skills.
DUTIES : Provide education and training to student nurses. Coordinate clinical learning
exposure to students between college and clinical areas Conduct clinical
accompaniment of students. Coordinate the teaching and learning of nursing
programmes. Develop and ensure implementation of quality assurance
programmes. Collaborate with other internal and external stakeholders and
build a sound relationship within the Department. Supervision of students.
Participate in the development and review of nursing curricula for
Undergraduate Diploma Programmes. Implements the new nursing
programmes in line with SANC and CHE regulations. Participate in the
provisioning of Continuous Professional Development (CPD) activities at the
208
Campus. Participate in all governance structures of the College. Support the
mission and promote the image of the College.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Magerman Tel No: (021) 684 1202, Dr S Mottian Tel No: (044) 813 1993
(Southern Cape/Karoo Campus)
Ms L Strauss Tel No: (023) 814 0090 (Boland/Overberg Campus)
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a competency test. No payment of any kind is
required when applying for this post. Candidates who are not in possession of
the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will
only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of
the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for
the first time for registration in a specific post-basic qualification with the South
African Nursing Council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). The pool of applicants will be considered for similar posts
within the Western Cape College of Nursing for a period of 3 months from date
of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/312 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: OPERATING
THEATRE) (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Service
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. A
post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least one year in Medical
and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating theatre technique, which allows
registration with SANC. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A
minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least
10 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable
experience in Operating Theatre after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification in the relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty, weekends, and public holidays
to meet the operational requirements. Must be prepared to assist in all
departments according to operational requirements. Competencies
(knowledge/ skills): Good communication, interpersonal relationships,
exceptional leadership and conflict resolution skills. Ability to function/make
decisions independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Practical
knowledge and experience in the operating theatre. Basic computer skills in
MS Word, Excel, Outlook. Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of the
Department of Health Western Cape. Knowledge of Major Incident Disaster
Plan.
DUTIES : Provide safe and comprehensive care delivered to patients in theatre.
Provision of optimal, holistic specialised care with set standards within
professional/legal framework. Ensure adherence to the principles of IPC
practices in the theatre. Ensure accurate record keeping for statistical and legal
purposes. Support and supervise students and subordinates in theatre.
Effective utilization of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Basardien Tel No: (021) 402-6485
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the required qualification will be
appointed into the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the
necessary qualification within a predetermined period of time. Candidates who
209
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating Theatre
Nursing. The pool of applicants will be considered for other posts within the
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services for a period of 3 months from date of
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/313 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 SPECIALTY: PSYCHIATRY
(CLINICAL NURSE TRAINER)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
degree/diploma in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse with
Psychiatry. A post basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least one year
accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatry Nursing Science.
Registration with a Professional Council: Current registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse and Psychiatry. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of this
period must be appropriate/ recognizable experience in the Psychiatry after
obtaining the relevant 1 year post basic qualification required for Psychiatry.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to provide relief duties on
weekends and public holidays or when required. Valid Drivers’ licence (Code
B/EB). Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Computer literacy. Knowledge of
relevant legislation and policy related to Nursing training and skills
development. Ability to promote quality patient care through the setting,
implementation and monitoring of standards. Good organisational skills and
the ability to function under pressure. Ability to function independently as well
as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Appropriate and recognisable experience
in training of nurses.
DUTIES : Facilitate and teach all training in relation to mental health and development
programmes of the nursing and support personnel in the Nursing Component
as well as other departments as required. Facilitate all induction and
mentorship programmes in conjunction with HRD. Facilitate in-service training,
skills update and competencies and skills of nursing personnel in mental health
services. Facilitate developmental research in nursing science with specific
interest in mental health nursing science. Facilitate student education and
training with accredited service providers and tertiary institutions as well as
placement to ensure achievement and maintenance of competence. Deliver a
support service to the Nursing Services and the institution. Maintain ethical
standards and promote professional growth and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Njongonkulu Tel No: (021) 503 5077
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be considered for
other similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
210
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/314 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: MENTAL HEALTH)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : PHC Support & Outreach George Sub-District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
Diploma/Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse with
Psychiatry. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year
accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse and Psychiatry. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in
Psychiatry after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as mentioned
above. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid driver’s licence and willingness
to travel within the Sub District. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Good
psychosocial- and health assessment skills. Knowledge of Mental Health
Legislation and Psychopharmacology. Good problem-solving, communication,
interpersonal, planning and organisational skills. Knowledge in the use of
clinical equipment and control of budget levels.
DUTIES : Actively participate as a specialist nurse in the provision of acute and chronic
mental health care to clients of all age groups at Primary Health Care facilities
in the George Sub District. Make bio-psychosocial health assessments that are
culturally sensitive. Design and implement treatment plans and critically
evaluate outcomes. Engage in case management activities such as organising,
accessing, negotiating, coordinating and integrating services. Promote and
maintain mental health and manage the effects of mental illness through
education, counselling and psycho-social rehabilitation. Participate in the
training and clinical supervision of other health care providers.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MJF Marthinus Tel No: (044) 814 - 1100
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: in Advanced
Psychiatric Nursing Science with the South African Nursing Council. The pool
of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Garden
Route District for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/315 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING:
THEATRE) (X17 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic
nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year accredited with the SANC
in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating Theatre Nursing.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14
211
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period
referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in Operating
Theatre after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant
specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Will be required to work shifts,
weekends and public holidays. -Willingness to rotate through various theatres
if and when required. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Basic computer
literacy. Good written and verbal communication skills. Knowledge of relevant
legislation and policy related to the nursing speciality. Strong leadership and
interpersonal skills. Good organisational skills and the ability to function under
pressure.
DUTIES : Ensure quality patient care regarding the identification of nursing care needs,
the planning and implementation of nursing care plans and the education of
the nursing personnel as a Professional Nurse in the specific speciality clinical
area. Render and supervise specialised clinical nursing care and support
clinical staff with procedures within the specific clinical speciality unit. Utilize
human, material ad physical resources and development of self and others.
Display core values of the Department of Health and Wellness (WCG) on the
execution of duties while practicing within the legislation, regulations and
protocols applicable to the public service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Baartman Tel No: (021) 938 4055
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the required qualification will be appointed into the
general stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary qualification
within the predetermined period of time. Candidates who are not in possession
of stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will
only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who
apply for the first time for registration in the post-basic qualification in Medical
and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating Theatre Nursing.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/316 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: THEATRE)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Mossel Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A
post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year accredited with
the SANC in Operating Theatre. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A
minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/ recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least
10 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable
experience in the specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification as mentioned above. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to work after-hours overtime and
perform standby duties. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Good
communication skills. Demonstrate an in-depth understanding of nursing
legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices and how this impact
on service delivery. Effective interpersonal, leadership, organisational, decision
making and conflict resolution skills. Computer literacy (i.e. MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint and Outlook).
DUTIES : Provide comprehensive specialized nursing care provided within a professional
/ legal framework. Participate with the multi-disciplinary team to provide holistic
health care, provide good documentation, care, planning and health education.
To support and participate in clinical practice development initiatives,
212
educational activities, and research. Effective utilization of human and financial
resources. Provide support services to Supervisor and Nursing division.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JA Mahlangu Tel No: (044) 604 6104
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be required to undergo a practical assessment. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Operating Theatre. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Garden Route District for a period of
3 months from date.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/317 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING:
CLINICAL NURSE TRAINING)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 (PN-B1) per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 (PN-B2) per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital, Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Post-basic qualification with duration of at least 1 year accredited with
the SANC in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science. Registration
with a Professional Council: Registration with the South African Nursing
Council as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A
minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least
10 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable
experience in the specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification in the relevant specialty. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Good
written and verbal communication skills. Knowledge of procedures and
processes related to nurse training and education. Knowledge and
understanding of nursing code of ethics and professional practice of the SANC.
Knowledge of PMTCT, IMCI, RTHB, MBFI, PPFP, PPFC, HCT, Post Natal care
and Presentation skills desirable. Ability to function independently as well as
part of a multidisciplinary team. Computer literacy essential (Ms Word,
PowerPoint, Excel and Outlook). Willingness to work after hours. Appropriate
and recognisable experience in training of nurses.
DUTIES : Facilitate and teach the clinical programs developed for the Maternal and Child
Health Stream. Facilitate the in-service training/updating of skills and
competencies as well as the orientation programme for nurses Evaluate /
assess the competencies and skills of nursing personnel in the Maternal and
Child Health stream to ensure safe and competent nurses. Assist with effective
management and utilisation of physical, material and financial resources within
the nurse training department. Maintain ethical standards and promote
professional growth and self – development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Bennett Tel No: (021) 360 4345
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the required qualification will be appointed into
the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary
qualification within a predetermined period of time. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
213
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science with
the South African Nursing Council. The pool of applicants will be considered
for similar vacant posts within Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services for a
period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a
written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/318 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Albertinia Clinic, Hessequa Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and midwife.
Post-Basic nursing qualification with duration of at least one-year Diploma in
Clinical Nurse Science, Health Assessment, Treatment and Care (R48)
accredited with the SANC. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience:
Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing
after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification in the specific speciality. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to work overtime when necessary
and to work at other clinics/Mobiles in the Sub-district. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication skills (verbal and written). Problem
solving, report writing, liaison and facilitation skills. NIMART training or
experience. Basic computer skills in (i.e. MS Word, Excel, Outlook).
DUTIES : Assist with the management of the Burden of disease according to the
comprehensive health programmes. Quality of service Plan and implement
Health Promotion and Prevention activities in facility and Community. Link to
the community structures and NPO’s. Collect data and submit reports. Provide
PHC services to the surrounding communities. Assist with the management of
Human Resources, Finance, SCM, Strategy and Health support and
Infrastructure and equipment management under supervision.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Braaf Tel No: (028) 713-8644
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification: Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science, Health Assessment,
Treatment Care (R48). The pool of applicants will be considered for similar
vacant posts within the Garden Route District for a period of 3 months from
date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a practical/ oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/319 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Delft Community Health Centre (X1 Post)
Ruyterwacht Community Day Centre (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
214
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. A post-basic qualification with a duration of at least 1-year Diploma in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care, accredited
with SANC (R48). Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A
Minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
2: A Minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least
10 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable
experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as mentioned
above. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid driver’s licence and willingness
to travel. Willingness to work after hours. Competencies (knowledge/ skills):
NIMART training or experience. Knowledge and understanding of nursing
Code of Ethics and Professional Practice of the SANC of nursing Standard of
Practice and scope of practice. Computer literate in MS Office (Excel, Word
and Power point) and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : Treatment of patients on Primary Health Care level with regards to Curative
Services, Communicable Diseases, Mental Health and Chronic Diseases
within the scope of practice. Render effective child and school health services,
including the integration of nutritional services, within the scope of practice.
Render effective Women’s Health including Antenatal services within the scope
of practice. Assist with management and execution of all relevant HAST
Programmes (TB, STI and HIV/AIDS). Work as part of the multi-disciplinary
team to ensure quality, promotive, preventive and curative Primary Health Care
delivery. To be an advocate for patients to ensure the provision of quality Health
Care necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. R Rula Tel No: (021) 954 2237 - Delft CHC and Mr. R Arendse Tel No:
(021) 810 7899 – Ruyterwacht CDC.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in the post basic qualification: Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science,
Health Assessment, Treatment Care. The pool of applicants will be considered
for other vacant similar posts within the Chief Director Metro Health Services,
for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a
written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/320 : CHIEF LANGUAGE PRACTITIONER
Directorate: Communications
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year degree in
Translation and Editing with English- Afrikaans language combination.
Experience: Appropriate experience in translation, editing, proofreading and
project management in a public sector communication context. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid (EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to travel and
work after hours. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Proven ability to manage
the delivery of language services, including translation, editing and
proofreading. Excellent verbal and written communication skills in English and
Afrikaans. Sound knowledge of language policy implementation within the
public service. People management and workflow coordination abilities.
Analytical and problem-solving skills. Fluency in English and Afrikaans. High
levels of computer literacy (MS Office / Office365; Adobe InDesign
advantageous). Strong interpersonal and project management skills. Ability to
work under pressure and manage competing priorities. Excellent attention to
detail.
DUTIES : Manage the translation, editing and proofreading services of the Language
Unit. Oversee project management and workflow for language services.
Supervise and support language practitioners within the unit. Ensure alignment
215
with the language policy of the Western Cape Government. Maintain quality
standards across all language outputs. Provide strategic support to the DD:
Strategic Communication.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Evans Tel No: (021) 483- 3080
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/321 : DIAGNOSTIC RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Rural Health services
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Radiographer in Diagnostic Radiography. Inherent requirements of the job:
Render a 24-hour service as determined by the department. Willingness to
rotate between the different radiology modalities in the department.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as a
Radiographer in Diagnostic Radiography. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with the HPCSA as Radiographer in Diagnostic Radiography in
respect of RSA qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable) in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Radiographer
in Diagnostic Radiography in respect of SA qualified employees. A Minimum of
11 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant
profession (where applicable) in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South
Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years relevant experience after registration
with the HPCSA as Radiographer in Diagnostic Radiography in respect of SA
qualified employees. A minimum of 21 years relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable) in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Competencies (knowledge/
skills): Knowledge of protocols, radiation protection, quality assurance and
equipment safety. Good interpersonal skills and perform effectively as part of
a multidisciplinary team. Knowledge and experience in mammography with
breast ultrasound HPCSA accreditation. Knowledge and experience in CT.
Knowledge of Patient Archiving and Communication Systems and Radiology
Information Systems.
DUTIES : Produce radiographs of optimum quality with good patient care. Maintain IER
of Equipment and perform QC tests. Participate in an after-hour service of the
department. Safe use and care of equipment. Assist with administrative duties
in radiology, support supervisor and participate in teambuilding. Assist with
training of community service radiographers and students. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development and participate in
continuing professional development activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms EM Dreyden Tel No: (023) 348-1129
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Worcester Regional Hospital for a
period of 3 months from date of advert.
216
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/322 : PHYSIOTHERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape Rehabilitation Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Physiotherapist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa as a Physiotherapist. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in
respect of RSA qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in respect of SA qualified
employees. A Minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South
Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration
with the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 21 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
a Physiotherapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/ skills): Appropriate experience working with persons with
disabilities as a physiotherapist in a healthcare setting. Basic to intermediate
therapeutic knowledge and skills in the management of clients with
neurological deficits. Ability to be flexible and innovative in response to differing
client needs and work within the MDT. Knowledge and optimal utilization of
community resources. Knowledge and correct application of internal and
external procedures and prescripts, DOH ethical codes and HPCSA standards
of professional practice. Ability to guide and supervise students.
DUTIES : Provision of Physiotherapy services in the specialist field of rehabilitation at
WCRC and associated facilities. Provision of specialised seating and/or
mobility assistive devices and/or assistive devices. Clinical management of
clients including facilitation of re-integration into the community. Support of
Supervisory structures / persons including resource management and
adherence to HR pre-scripts. Participation in training and development
including guidance of students.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A.M. Visser Tel No: (021) 370-2351
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
“Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.”
This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for a change in registration status)”. The
pool of applicants will be considered for other similar posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/323 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT
West Coast District
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Radie Kotze Hospital, Bergirver Sub-district
217
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year national diploma or
degree. Experience: Appropriate Human Resource Administration, supervisory
and PERSAL experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Sound
practical knowledge and experience of the PERSAL system, knowledge of the
Public Service Act and regulations, various OSD’s, Human Resource Policies,
Resolutions and Agreements. Ability to ensure compliance and identify
irregularities in the application of human resource policies and practices by
means of analytical and innovative thinking. Good verbal, as well as written
communication skills to ensure effective report-writing. Computer skills (MS
Office, Word, Excel and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Adherence to and correct application of all transversal personnel practices,
policies and procedures, including all employment practices, Conditions of
Service and Terminations, SPMS, Establishment Administration and
Recruitment and Selection. Render a support and advisory service with
regards to Human Resource Administration and Management. Monitor
compliance to HR policies. Manage and supervise the general staff office
including the development of HR Officials. Identify training areas and
implement training programmes and information sessions on existing and new
policies. Ensure HR compliance and rectification of Auditor-General reports,
Internal Auditors reports, as well as HRM Advisory Services Compliance
Reports. Co-ordinate Labour relations and People Development (HRD)
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Julius Tel No: (022) 913-1337
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/324 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE/ADMIN (HOSPITAL FEES AND
ADMISSIONS
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Brackengate Transitional Care Facility
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
a Hospital Fees/Patient Administration environment. Inherent requirements of
the job: Valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB). Willingness to rotate within the
Hospital fees department when necessary. Willingness to work scheduled
hours according to operational needs. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of Clinicom, Accounts Receivable, UPFS Billing, Cashiers
functions and EDI (Electronic Data Interchange). Knowledge of Medical
Records & Case Management. Sound knowledge of applicable policies
(Treasury Regulations and Financial/PFMA Financial Instructions, UPFS,
Memorandum Chapter 18, AO System, delegations and Procedures). Sound
knowledge of applicable policies and prescripts re Revenue Generation,
Billing, Reception and Medical Records. Computer literacy- (MS Word/MS
Excel, Outlook & Internet). The ability to function independently as well as part
of a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Supervise the Hospital Fees, Patient Administration and Medical Records
Divisions. Authorising/Release of journals on BAS, Clinicom and Accounts
Receivable transactions. Authorise/Do Deposit Day Ends and Confirmation of
monies banked. Reporting to Region and Head Office on Hospital fees related
transactions, In Year Monitoring, Revenue Action Plan and BAS Recon.
Manage the Institutions Revenue collection Budget and follow up. Render
Administrative support to the Case Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Matthee Tel No: (021) 370-2303
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Short listed
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The
pool of applicants will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the
218
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/325 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT SCM
(CONTRACT MANAGEMENT/ TRANSPORT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha Eastern Sub Structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Support service, Supply chain management, reporting and transport
management and Contract Management Inherent requirements of the job:
Valid (Code B/EB) drivers’ licence. Competencies (knowledge/ skills):
Computer literacy and thorough knowledge of computer systems (LOGIS,
BAS, and MS Office). Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, Departmental
delegations, AO System and financial reporting. The ability to interpret and
apply financial policies, procedures and prescripts. Knowledge of GMT
prescripts and policies.
DUTIES : Responsible for effective support service of supply chain management,
contract management and transport services with the Khayelitsa/Eastern Sub-
structure, including Hospitals. Ensure timeous and accurate reporting of
financial transactions pertaining to accounting and supply chain management
including transport and contract management reporting. Effective supervision
on GG fleet vehicles and maintenance within Sub-structure. Assist with the
procurement of goods and services on behalf of the Sub-Structure Office.
Supervision and support services within the component, including the Human
Resource Management (HRM) function, discipline, and grievances.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Lee Tel No: (021) 360-4649
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant within the Chief Directorate:
Metro District Health Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
Candidates may be subjected to a pre-entry test/practical assessment and
formal interview.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/326 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING) (NURSE
TRAINING RELIEF) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
(Contract post until 31 January 2026)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
degree/diploma in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with SANC as
a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent
requirements of the job: Ability to work shifts during the day and night,
weekends and public holidays and overtime when required by supervisor.
Willingness to rotate within different Functional Business Units. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): The ability to function independently in a multi-disciplinary
team and the ability to direct the team to ensure quality nursing care. Good
problem solving, motivational and leadership skills.
219
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice or patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria, and
indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and health
care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health
care. Maintain constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human, material, and physical resources efficiently and
effectively. Ensure accurate collection and recording of data. Render support
to the supervisor and colleagues.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Bruiners Tel No: (023) 348-1104
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. assessment.
Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Worcester Regional Hospital for a
period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/327 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Prince Albert Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willing to work shifts, including weekend, public
holidays and night shift. Willingness to rotate to other departments within the
hospital when needed. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Basic skills in MS
Word. The ability to function independently under pressure. Knowledge of
Nursing Practice, Infection Prevention Control, control measures and
practices. Excellent communication skills (both written and verbal).
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice or patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria, and
indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and health
care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health
care. Maintain constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human, material, and physical resources efficiently and
effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Viljoen Tel No: (023) 814-2982
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
220
considered for similar vacant posts within Central Karoo District for a period of
3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a practical/written
assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/328 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Mossel Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425(Degree/Diploma in nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with SANC as Professional
Nurse and Midwife. Registration with a Professional Council: Current
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in General
Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate / recognizable
experience after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in General
Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ appropriate / recognizable
experience after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in General
Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job: Willing to work shifts, including
weekend, public holidays and night shift. Willingness to rotate to other
departments within the hospital when needed. Competencies (knowledge/
skills): The ability to function independently under pressure. Excellent
communication skills (both written and verbal). Basic skills in MS Word.
Knowledge of Nursing Practice, Infection Prevention Control, control measures
and practices.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice or patient care). Practice nursing and health care in
accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health care.
Maintain constructive working relationship with nursing and other stakeholders.
Utilize human, material, and physical resources efficiently and effectively.
Implement standards, practices, criteria, and indicators for quality nursing
(quality of practice).
ENQUIRIES : Ms JA Mahlangu Tel No: (044) 604 6104
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Garden Route District for a period of
3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a practical/written
assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/329 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING: MIXED
WARD)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Helderberg Hospital, Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade
221
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, night duty, public holiday,
and be on call. Willingness to rotate to different wards according to operational
requirements. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Knowledge of Nursing Care
processes and procedures Nursing Act. Problem solving, decision-making,
good interpersonal skills. Report writing skills. Health promotion and team
building.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(Clinical practice/quality patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria,
and indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and
health care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and
health care. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human, material, and physical resources efficiently and
effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Sr T Khumalo Tel No: (021) 850-4752
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.” Candidates,
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before of the interview. This concession is only applicable on
health professionals who must apply for the first time for registration in a
specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be
considered for other vacant Professional Nurse General posts within the Chief
Director: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/330 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING: VARIOUS
WARDS) (X14 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the
job: Willingness to work shifts, day & night duty, weekends and public holidays
to meet the operational requirements. Willingness to rotate to other
departments if required. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Ability to function/
make decisions independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good
communication, interpersonal, leadership and conflict resolution skills.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(Clinical practice/ quality patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria
and indicators quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and health
care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health
care. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs. F Baartman Tel No: (021) 938-4055
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
222
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status). Shortlisted candidates may be subjected to a
compulsory competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/331 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPORT (FACILITY ADMINISTRATION)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate proven experience in dealing with parking
administration, access control administration and data capturing. Knowledge
of revenue generation audit compliance, handling of revenue, receipt value
books and safe Knowledge of Access control systems preferably Softcon,
knowledge of parking administration within a government facility. Knowledge of
SCM processes. Be physically fit to walk and monitor access and parking
enquiries on the estate when required. Must be able to deal with high volume
telephone and walk-in enquiries. Inherent requirements of the job: Required to
Start At 6am In the Morning. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of
Access control systems preferably Softcon, knowledge of parking
administration within a government facility. Knowledge of SCM processes. Be
physically fit to walk and monitor access and parking enquiries on the estate
when required. Must be able to deal with high volume telephone and walk-in
enquiries.
DUTIES : Daily monitoring and reporting on parking and access status on the estate.
Attend to applications for parking and access, Manufacture and issuing of
access and ID cards. Ensure that monthly payments for parking are submitted
and verified. Ensure that all spreadsheets are updated and delivered on due
dates. Set up meetings with stakeholders with regards to parking and access.
Assist with adhoc duties within Facility Management in relation to disaster
management and driving.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K. Oliver Tel No: (021) 404-232
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a competency test on the day of interview.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/332 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (STORES)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Supply Chain Management and Warehouse environment. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of/skills in SYSPRO. Organisational skills.
Good interpersonal and communication skills.
DUTIES : Ensure the effective running of the store/warehouse. Stock Counts: To verify
stock holding and identify slow moving stock. Record Management: Proper
filing and updating electronic system. Vendor Management: Communicate and
manage suppliers. Communication and Liaison: Proper resolution of queries
and provide assistance when needed.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Mohamed Tel No: (021) 404-5180
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates may be required to attend a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/333 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS (PATIENT ADMIN)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
223
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post Experience: Appropriate experience in
Patient Administration. Inherent requirements of the job: Must work 12-hour
shifts (day and night), weekends, and public holidays. Comply with internal
rotation schedules within the component. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Must be able to work independently or in a team and under supervision.
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Knowledge in Clinicom,
UPFS, Hospital Memorandum Chapter 18, PFMA.
DUTIES : Handling of state monies. Ensure accurate assessment of patients according
to the means test and billing of patient accounts, raising and releasing of
invoices and debiting of charge entries to invoices as per UPFS manual,
Clinicom and Hospital Memorandum Chapter 18. Responsible for sound cash
management. Registration of new patients. Telephone enquiries. Ensure all
appointments are captured and admitted daily. Filling and drawing of folders,
as well as retrieving and archiving of folders. Ad-hoc admin duties. Support to
supervisor and staff members.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Gobeni Tel No: (023) 348-1254
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Worcester Regional Hospital for a
period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/334 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
(PROCUREMENT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Supply Chain Management with specific focus in the Procurement Process.
Appropriate experience of Supply Chain Management systems and processes.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work overtime when required
to do so. Ability to work in a physically demanding environment. Physical ability
to move goods within the Transit Area/Stores, when required to do so.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer Literacy in the Microsoft Package.
Good communication and interpersonal skills. Knowledge and exposure to the
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Regulations and Financial
Instructions and legislations pertaining to Supply Chain Management.
Experience of Supply Chain Management Systems and Supply Chain
Management Functions. The ability to work independently and as part of a
team.
DUTIES : Perform functions related to the Demand and Acquisitioning of Goods and
Services for all FBU’s of New Somerset Hospital. Ensure that requests are
processed via the Institutional Quotation Committee for approval and that the
correct sourcing method is applied. Check and verify correctness of
specifications before advertising on the procurement system for non-contract
items. Place orders based on the relevant procurement processes completed
with service providers & suppliers for goods and services timeously.
Communication and feedback between suppliers and end-users in terms of
lead times and contract management aspects. Ensure compliance to
Prescripts are maintained to all procurement transactions. Provide
administrative support to various internal stakeholders of New Somerset
Hospital.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Isaacs Tel No: (021) 402-6217
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the Chief
224
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/335 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE/ADMIN (FEES/REVENUE
DEPARTMENT)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
mathematics and/or accountancy as a passed subject and/or a Senior
Certificate (or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the
Key Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate
experience in a Fees/Revenue related environment. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy. Knowledge of Hospital Fees
Memorandum 18, UPFS, HIS (Clinicom and AR Systems), Finance
Instructions, PFMA and Treasury Instructions. Good communication skills and
interpersonal abilities. Strong sense of confidentiality.
DUTIES : Fees revenue and follow-up administration functions according to PWGC
policies and procedures. Handling and Banking of State Money. Collect
revenue on outstanding hospital accounts. Provide debt relief. Perform main
cashier, general fees administration and account related duties. File, compile
stats and perform relief duties. Liaise with patients, all categories of staff and
external bodies. Covering for colleagues in areas.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S. Gcwabe Tel No: (023) 348-6458
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Worcester Regional Hospital for a
period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/336 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS
Garden Route District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Riversdale Hospital, Hessequa Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in electronic patient administration.
Inherent requirements of the job: Must be prepared to work 12-hour shifts (i.e.
night duty, weekends, public holidays) and work overtime on short notice. Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication skills, with internal and external clients (verbal and written),
numerical skills and the ability to maintain confidentiality. Computer literacy in
Microsoft (Word, Excel and Outlook), attach proof or mention in CV. Ability to
accept accountability and responsibility and to work independently and
unsupervised.
DUTIES : Assessment of patients according to the means test when admitting patients,
update patient information, maintain patient appointments and schedule
appointments for patients in accordance with Hospital Memorandum 18, UPFS
Manuel, Clinicom and Accounts Receivable System. Responsible for sound
cash management for revenue control which includes the receipt of money,
issue of accounts, receipt and safekeeping of money. Open and maintain
patient folders and loan of patient folders to relevant departments on the
Clinicom system. Debtor assessment of patients and data capturing of patient
information on the Clinicom system. Drawing of folders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr H Crous Tel No: (028) 713-8642
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
225
POST 21/337 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: REGISTRY (MEDICAL RECORDS/ARCHIVES)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent)
Experience: Appropriate Medical Records and Archive experience. Appropriate
Clinicom experience. inherent requirements of the job: Work 12-hour shifts
(day and night), weekends and public holidays. Work overtime when needed
to meet operational requirements. Competencies (knowledge/ skills):
Knowledge of filing / archiving and disposal of medical records in a Healthcare
Environment. Ability to accept accountability and responsibility with good
interpersonal and communication skills. Computer literacy, Clinicom, MS Word
and Excel. Knowledge of the Records Management Policy, The National
Archive and Records Services of South Africa Act and Promotion of Access to
Information Act. Ability to work independently with good organizing skills.
DUTIES : Render an administrative support service to patients, public, supervisor and
staff. Perform Clinicom system transaction to ensure efficient and effective
case note tracking. Accurately retrieve, file and sort medical folders on culling
list according to relevant acts prescripts. Maintain ab effective archiving /
disposal system by repairing / listing and scrutinizing case notes due for
retention and destruction. Keep accurate record of destruction certificates and
lists of medical folders that was send to the repository for retention. Maintain
the Disaster and Downtime Folder Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Gobeni Tel No: (023) 348-1254
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Worcester Regional Hospital for a
period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/338 : PERSONNEL OFFICER (HUMAN RESOURCES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate Human Resources Management and PERSAL
experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work overtime
when required. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Good communication skills.
Computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Basic
understanding of Human Resource Policies and Practices. Basic analytical
skills and interpersonal skills. Organising & planning skills. Professionalism and
maintaining confidentiality. Knowledge of OSD prescripts.
DUTIES : Perform all administrative duties pertaining to personnel administration, e.g.
appointments, service terminations, transfers, pension administration, salary
administration, leave, housing, injury on duty, distribution of payslips, debt
management, grade progressions, and RWOEE Assisting with the SPMS
administration for the institution. Responsible for checking documents for
compliance and capturing transactions on PERSAL. Responsible for
Recruitment and Selection processes, including the verifications of documents
and qualifications. Responsible for effective record-keeping, including auditing
of personnel and leave records, maintenance and safekeeping of Personnel
files, updating registers. Application of general office administration, handling
of all personnel enquiries (written and verbal), supervisor support and
implementation and application of People Management policies. Assist with
labour and grievance statistics and monitoring of processes with regards to
Labour Relations. Assist with the informal in-service training of employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Levy Tel No: (021) 902-8077
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
226
POST 21/339 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Patient Reception Services. Inherent
requirements of the job: Must be willing to work 12-hour shifts. Comply with
internal rotation schedules within the component to ensure continued
development and growth for future opportunities. Competencies (knowledge/
skills): Computer literacy in terms of collating, interpreting and inserting data
into a spreadsheet. Computer Literacy (Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel,
CLINICOM). Good communication skills (written and verbal). Ability to work
under pressure with set deadlines. Excellent interpersonal skills / Client care
skills. Ability to execute duties accurately and thoroughly. Must be able to work
independently or in a team and under supervision.
DUTIES : Handling of state monies. Perform all duties associated with collating data onto
CLINICOM and rendering of an invoice. Ensure correctness of patient invoices.
All reception, clinic, ward duties as well as special offices. Working knowledge
of CLINICOM. Collection of valid documents in order to classify patients into
correct tariff category. Ensuring all appointments are captured and admitted
daily. Maintaining correct filing system.
ENQUIRIES : Mr RE Domingo Tel No: (021) 938-4550
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. All shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/340 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Prince Albert Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Human Resource Management.
Appropriate practical experience in PERSAL. Inherent requirements of the job:
A valid (code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Good
communication skills (verbal and written). Computer literacy (MS Office: Word,
Excel, PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Perform all administrative duties pertaining to the personnel administration
section e.g. appointments, service terminations, transfers, pension
administration, salary administration, leave, housing, injury on duty, distribution
of monthly pay slips, debt management, verify documents, qualifications, etc.
Responsible for capturing transactions on PERSAL. Handle all personnel
enquiries and correspondence (written and verbal). File personnel data,
policies, regulations and circulars and maintain registers, i.e. PILIR, RWOPS,
Appointments, Service Terminations and audit personnel/leave records. Assist
with recruitment and selection process. Assist staff, supervisor, management
and members of the Public with regard to Human Resource and Personnel
matters and effective support service to Supervisor, i.e. relief duties, attending
meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Martins Tel No: (023) 814-2994
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/341 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (ACUTE OVERNIGHT WARD)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Staff Nurse. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse Experience:
227
Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work shifts, public holidays, after-hours, night duty and weekend.
Willingness to rotate between departments. Competencies (knowledge/ skills):
Good interpersonal and communication skills both written and verbally. Ability
to work independently, but also as part of a team.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care plans. Provide basic
clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development. Effective functioning in a multi-
disciplinary team.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Fortuin Tel No: (021) 918-1276
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be
subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/342 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT
Metro Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: NQF 3 (Grade 10 or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s license. Perform standby duties and work overtime when
required. Must be physically fit to perform duties, to lift and load heavy items,
and be of sober habits. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Conversant with the
Machinery and Occupational Health and Safety Act. Computer literacy and
good communication skills. Competent with hands–on practical work
experience. Ability to lean quickly and adapt to new tasks. Strong attention to
detail and committed to deliver quality work.
DUTIES : All repairs and general maintenance of equipment and buildings in the hospital.
Maintain equipment and work areas in a clean and safe condition. Assist
Artisans with maintenance, repairs, planning and installation of projects.
Complete and return repair requisitions and further keep a record of all repairs.
Assist in ordering and controlling the materials and workshop tools. Train and
develop staff, and clean areas where work has been carried out.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Scholtz Tel No: (021) 902 8061
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant within the Chief Directorate:
Metro District Health Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
Candidates may be subjected to a pre-entry test/practical assessment and
formal interview.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/343 : FOOD SERVICES SUPERVISOR
Garden Route District
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Alan Blyth Hospital, Kannaland Sub District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training certificate
(GETC) / Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate Food Service Experience
in an Industrial Food Services Unit, within a hospital environment. Appropriate
228
supervisory experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code B/EB
driver’s licence Willingness to work shifts (weekends and public holidays).
Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Good communication skills (read, speak
and write) and numerical skills. Knowledge and skills with regards to the
operational procedures in an Industrial Food Services Unit. Appropriate
knowledge of WCHD Food Service Policy and monitoring process, hygiene,
occupational health, HACCP and safety principles and the incumbent must be
able to work according to rules and standards and meet deadlines. Computer
literate in Microsoft Office (Excel, Word and Outlook), (Attach proof or mention
it in the CV). Ability to effectively multi-task, function independently and under
pressure.
DUTIES : Implement standard menu, production planning and correct procedures for
receipt, storage, preparation, portioning and distribution of food. Implement,
maintain and effectively supervise safety and security measures as well as
hygiene and infection control. Implement and maintain and effective food
services financial management system to ensure that food expenditure
remains within the budget. HR relative matters which include, compiling of duty
rosters, keeping of statistics, leave planning, disciplinary process, allocating
tasks, coordinating work schedules and SPMS.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. E Adcock Tel No: (028) 551-1010
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written assessment. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Garden Route District for a period of
3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/344 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Clanwilliam Hospital, Cederberg Sub-District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Registration
with a Professional Council: Registration with the South African Nursing
Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2:
A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience after registration
with the SANC as Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’
appropriate/ recognisable experience after registration with the SANC as
Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirements of the job: Must be prepared to work
shifts, weekends, and public holidays. Competencies (knowledge/ skills):
Computer literate (MS Word and Excel) and knowledge of recordkeeping
procedures. Ability to accept accountability and responsibility and to work
independently.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living (physical care). Provide elementary
clinical nursing care. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development. Effective functioning within multi-disciplinary team. Effective
utilisation of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Goeieman Tel No: (022) 482-2166
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Cederberg Sub-District for a
period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
229
POST 21/345 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3
Central Karoo District
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Prince Albert Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Nursing Assistant with the SANC. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Nursing Assistant with the SANC. Inherent requirements of the
job: Willing to work shifts, day and night duty and overtime. Willingness to rotate
to other wards within the hospital when needed. Competencies (knowledge/
skills): Good communication skills. Self- discipline and motivation.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living which include patient hygiene,
nutritional status, mobility and elimination needs. Provide elementary clinical
nursing care. Provide basic nursing care. Maintain professional growth, ethical
standards and self-development. Record keeping.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Viljoen Tel No: (023) 8142982
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Central Karoo District for a period
of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
POST 21/346 : TRADESMAN AID (BUILDING: CARPENTRY)
Directorate: Engineering and Technical Support Services
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town, (Bellville Mobile Workshop)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate experience within the respective fields below. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to travel throughout the Western Cape
Province. Physically fit to do manual labour. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to handle tools. Good interpersonal skills. Good communication skills.
Sound Knowledge of mainly in Building related trades, like: (Carpentry,
Plumbing, Painting and Building). Basic sound knowledge of the SANS 10 -
400 Building Regulation. Be conversant with the requirements of the Machinery
and Occupational Health and Safety Act. Must have knowledgeable experience
in Building trades.
DUTIES : Carry out minor maintenance tasks. Assist with the installation equipment and
alterations. Ensure that tools and material are available when needed. Ensure
areas in workshop /s and working environment is clear of obstructions and
cleaned daily. Control over tools and materials. Maintenance and repairs by
painting, glazing, skimming installations of Drywalls, ceilings and spray-
painting of equipment at Hospital buildings. Repairs and Service of
infrastructure equipment at Facilities, according to standards and relevant
regulations. Support in Carpentry Plumbing Painting and Building Departments
when required. Assist the Artisan Foreman / Artisan in certain duties assigned.
Emergency breakdowns (including after-hour repairs).
ENQUIRIES : Mr JP Louw Tel No: (021) 830-3771
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post.
230
CLOSING DATE : 04 July 2025
231