PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 29 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 15 AUGUST 2025
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the
advertisements of vacant posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the
Department is not responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an
advertisement must be addressed to the relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies,
knowledge and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the
department in which the vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST
PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries
to the department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration
must not be approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the
applicable closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies.
Potential candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies
and attending where applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15
(affirmative action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998
should be applied. Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote
representativeness through the filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose
transfer/appointment will promote representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to
employment in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding
the course please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENTS : JUDICIAL INSPECTORATE FOR CORRECTIONAL SERVICES: Kindly note
that the following post was advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 28
dated 08 August 2025: Applicants for the post of Administration Clerk in the
Western Cape Management Region with Reference IJ: 127/2025 must use the
following link to apply: https://forms.gle/jsHBTnm9s4GGYK2DA The closing
date will remain 29 August 2025.
1
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE: Kindly note
that the following post was advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 28
dated 08 August 2025 with the closing date of 22 August 2025, (1) Chief
Engineer (Geologist), Scientific Manager with Ref No: 2025/60 with email:
recruitment25-32@dpw.gov.za, Centre: Head Office (Pretoria), erroneously
advertised with the incorrect OSD salary of all-inclusive R1 099 488 per
annum. The correct OSD salary is all-inclusive R1 266 450 per annum.
2
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
BASIC EDUCATION A 04
COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE B 05
DEFENCE C 06 - 07
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR D 08 - 09
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING E 10 - 11
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT F 12 - 22
NATIONAL TREASURY G 23 - 24
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE H 25 - 27
TOURISM I 28 - 29
TRANSPORT J 30 - 34
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
FREE STATE K 35 - 48
KWAZULU NATAL L 49 - 53
MPUMALANGA M 54 - 66
NORTHERN CAPE N 67 - 68
WESTERN CAPE O 69 - 140
3
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF BASIC EDUCATION
The Department of Basic Education is committed to providing equal opportunities and practicing
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote equity through the filling of all numeric
targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication
of race, gender and disability status is required. Preference will be given to underrepresented groups as
per the DBE Employment Equity Targets. Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Submitted via post to: Private Bag X895, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-deliver to: The
Department of Basic Education, 222 Struben Street, Pretoria or you can email
your application at Recruitment@dbe.gov.za /HR@dbe.gov.za. Please visit the
Department of Education’s website at www.education.gov.za or the
Department of Public Service and Administration vacancy circulars at
www.dpsa.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms M Matidza/ Ms T Sekgapola
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the most recently approved Z83 Application
for Employment Form, obtainable from the DBE Website or any Public Service
Department/Webpage. Use of the old Z83 Form will result in disqualification.
The Z83 must be completed in full and page 2 duly signed. A clear indication
of the post and reference number that is being applied for must be indicated
on your Z83. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 with a
detailed Curriculum Vitae (only). Certified copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents will be requested from shortlisted candidates on or before
the day of the interview. Correspondence will be entered into with shortlisted
candidates.
INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (2025/2026 AND 2027/2028)
OTHER POST
POST 29/01 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME REF NO: DBE/01/2025
Fixed 24 Months Contract
STIPEND : Graduate Internship: R7 860.39
National Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or equivalent: R5 639.64
CENTRE : Department of Basic Education (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applications are invited from candidates in the following fields of study:
National Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or equivalent, Data capture, Office
Management, Human Resource Management, Public Management and
Administration, Financial Management, Cost Accounting, Accounting Science,
Information Technology. Information Science Research, VB Programming,
SQL database/GIS Knowledge, Information and Records Management, Data
management and Analysis, Public Relations / Social media or Communication,
Journalism, Graphic Designed, Videography, Events Management, Marketing,
Arts and culture, Librarian, legal qualification/law, International Relations, Asset
Management, Security Management (with PSIRA Grades), Customer Service,
Health and Safety management, Public Private Partnership., Bachelor of Arts
in Education, Bachelor of Education Specialising in English, Curriculum, ICT in
Education, Early Childhood Development, Internal Audit, Economics, Logistical
Service, Transport Management, Sport Management, Content Development,
Project Management, Food Services, Health Science/promotion, Civil
Engineering and Quantity Survey, Business Analyst and IT/IS Architectural
Design, Psychology/Social Work, Application Development/Programme.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Matidza Tel No: (012) 357 4508/ Ms T Sekgapola Tel No: (012) 357 3296
NOTE : People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
4
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE
The vision of the Department of Cooperative Governance is one of having a well co-ordinated system of
Government consisting of National, Provincial and Local spheres working together to achieve
sustainable development and service delivery. The Department intends to invest in human capital,
increase integrated technical capacity directed at service delivery and promote representivity in the
Department through the filling of this post. The candidature of persons whose
appointment/transfer/promotion will promote representivity will therefore receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
Recruitment03@cogta.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
NOTE : Applicants are advised that a new application for employment (Z83) has been
in effect since 1 January 2021. The new application for employment form can
be downloaded at http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applications
submitted using the old Z83 form will not be accepted. Applications must be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV, with specific starting and ending dates
in all relevant positions and clarity on the levels and ranks pertaining to
experience, as well as current remuneration package, as well as at least 2
contactable references. Only shortlisted candidates will be requested to submit
certified documents/ copies on or before the interviews. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Incomplete applications or applications
received after the closing date will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to a technical exercise (or exercises/follow-up
engagements/second round interviews/or any other method) that intends to
test relevant technical elements of the job. The successful candidate will be
appointed subject to positive results of a pre-employment screening process
which includes criminal, credit, citizenship checks and verification of
educational qualification certificates. The successful candidate will be
appointed on probation for a period of 12 months and will be required to sign a
performance agreement. It is important to note that it is the applicant’s
responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments in support of the
application are submitted by the due date. Correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application has been unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right to make
an appointment. The below post is not a senior management post. Persons
with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
OTHER POST
POST 29/02 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT REF NO: DCOG-SSA
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Finance or equivalent qualification
at NQF 6/7 as recognized by SAQA. At least 2 to 3 years’ experience in
Finance. Proficiency in MS Excel, MS Word, LOGIS, BAS and Safety-web.
Generic Competencies: Quality of Work. Initiative. Interpersonal Relations.
Planning and Execution. Reliability. Communication. Teamwork. Technical
Competencies: Public sector financial budgeting arrangements and processes.
Principles of public finance, cost accounting, fiscal policy and public
administration. Public sector accounting practices and procedures. Financial
analysis to support service delivery requirement. Transversal systems of
Government (BAS, LOGIS and Safety web). Added advantage: Management
functions (supervisor).
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Final authorizing of
payments and journals on BAS and LOGIS. Clearing and reporting on
suspense accounts. Administer revenue and authorizing Department’s
receipts. Creditors and grants transfers reconciliation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Ndou Tel No: (012) 334 0594
5
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Defence Policy Strategy and Planning, Director
Strategy and Planning, Private Bag X910, Pretoria, 0001 or may be hand
delivered to Defence Headquarters (Reception), Armscor Building, Corner of
Nossob and Boeing Streets, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria 0001 or email to
Pragasen.Ramsing@dod.mil.za
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025 at 16h00, (Applications received after the closing date and
faxed copies will not be considered).
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed form Z83 (obtainable from
any Public Service Department office i.e effective 01 January 2021 or on the
DPSA web site link: https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/. Should an
application be received using incorrect application employment form Z83, it will
be disqualified, which must be originally signed and dated by the applicant, and
which must be accompanied by a detailed CV only (with full particulars of the
applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge & experience).
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
which should not be older than six months. Failure to comply with the above
instructions will result in applications being disqualified. Applicants applying for
more than one post must submit a separate form Z83 (as well as the
documentation mentioned above) in respect of each post being applied for. If
an applicant wishes to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing.
Should an application be received where an applicant applies for more than
one post on the same applications form, the application will only be considered
for the first post indicated on the application and not for any of the other posts.
Under no circumstances will photostat copies or faxed copies of application
documents be accepted. The successful candidates will be subjected to
Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset
record checks and qualification and employment verification). Successful
candidates will also be subjected to security clearance processes. The level of
appointments is dependent upon, qualifications, relevant experience and
research output. The shortlisted candidates will be subjected to two (2) pre-
entry assessments (practical and ethical exercise) which will determine the
candidate’s suitability. Applicants who do not receive confirmation or feedback
within 3 (three) months after the closing date, please consider your application
unsuccessful. Due to the large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of
applications will not be acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. For more information on the job description(s)
please contact the person indicated in the post details. Successful candidates
will be appointed on probation for the period of twelve (12) months in terms of
the prescribed rules.
OTHER POST
POST 29/03 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DEFENCE STRATEGY REF NO: DPSP/25/29/25
Defence Policy, Strategy & Planning Division
Chief Directorate: Strategic Management
Directorate: Strategy and Plan
This post is re-advertised in the DOD and Broader public service. All applicants
who previously applied are encouraged to re-apply
SALARY : R582 444 – R686 091 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Defence Headquarters, Armscor Building, Corner of Nossob and Boeing
Streets, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent and National Diploma or Advanced
certificate (NQF Level 6) qualification related to management science and
strategic studies. A minimum of three (3) years relevant work experience in
strategic management environment. Special requirements (Skills needed):
Understanding and interpretation of relevant Regulatory Frameworks and
Policies. Sound understanding of strategy development, implementation,
monitoring and evaluation. Excellent in research, analytical, report writing
6
(preferably Conventions of Service Writing), communication and project
management skills. Excellent end user computer skills in MS Word, MS Excel,
MS PowerPoint. Must be able to function under pressure and meet deadlines.
Must be able to comply with the security clearance processes of the
Department of Defence.
DUTIES : Assist in compiling the Department of Defence (DOD) Strategising policy.
Update and align DOD Strategising Functional Guidelines to National and
Departmental Imperatives. Provide the Strategic DOD Mandate through
evaluation of the external and internal environment of the DOD. Provide and
manage DOD Business Strategy. Coordinate and attending strategising
forums. Provide assistance in the internal management of the sub-directorate.
Assist with the DOD Environmental Scan, which encapsulate the identification
and management of strategic issues in the department. Assist with the
development of departmental policies, strategies and plans which entails
conducting research into best practices or benchmarking in respect of specific
strategic issues that impact the DOD.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P. Ramsing Tel No: (012) 355-5967
NOTE : The Defence policy, strategy & planning division, (Directorate strategy and
planning) has intention to promote representatively (race, gender and
disability).
7
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at: Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 00:00 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the correct
job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your email.
Use the correct email address associated with the post. JPEG
(picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Failure to do so, your
application will be disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference
number must be submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your
information will be used solely for the purpose of this promotion and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. If you
have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below
advertised post(s). The successful candidate will be required to enter into an
employment contract and a performance agreement. The Department is an
equal opportunity affirmative action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of
the Department shall inform the employment decision. It is the Department’s
intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of
this post(s)
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the registration with HPCSA as Psychometrist
/Registered Counsellor (Independent Practices) is required for the advertised
post of Psychometrist/Registered Counsellor Ref No: HR4/4/07/30 for
Provincial Office: Mmabatho. The post was advertised on Public Service
Vacancy Circular 26 dated 25 July 2025 with a closing date 08 August 2025.
The closing date is extended to 29 August 2025; the rest of the requirements
8
remains the same. Apology for inconvenience. enquiries contact: Ms N
Nkiwane Tel No: (018) 387 8100
OTHER POSTS
POST 29/04 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR FINANCE: COID REF NO: HR4/4/07/02
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Mmabatho Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) as recognised by SAQA in Public
Finance Management/ Costs and Management Accounting/ Management
Accounting/ Financial Accounting/ Financial Information System/ Internal
Auditing/ Bcom Accounting. 4 years’ functional experience in Finance of which
2 years at a Senior State Accountant level/ Senior Practitioner Level.
Knowledge: Digital Acumen (Financial Systems, Tools). Policy and compliance
management. Compensation Fund policies, procedures, processes. Fund
Governance and Risk Management. Budgeting and Financial Management.
Batho-Pele Principles (Customer services). Relevant stakeholders. Generally
Recognised Accounting Principles (GRAP). Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles (GAAP). Public Service Act. Legislative Requirements: Public
Service Finance Management Act. National Treasury Regulations. Skills:
Fraud identification. Data analytics and reporting. Stakeholder development
and relations. GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and king IV Requirements.
GRAP (Local Reporting Standards). Analysing & Interpreting Information
(Analytical Thinking, Forecasting & Projections). Visualising, Facilitation and
Presentation. Coaching and Mentoring. Conflict Management. Critical and
Innovative Thinking. Inspire Commitment. People Management. Performance
and oversight. Quality Assurance. Risk Management. Service Delivery
Innovation. Stakeholder Development & Relations. Programme/ Project
Planning & Management. Monitoring and assurance. Research and
Development.
DUTIES : Coordinate the verification of compensation of employee costs, shared goods
and services cost to ensure the correct implementation of the percentage split.
Provide Supply Chain Management services for all CF operations in the
province. Coordinate budget planning and expenditure performance
monitoring for all CF operations in the provinces. Provide Financial Accounting
on benefits payable services for all the CF related operations. Coordinate and
facilitate the implementation of the action plan for all CF related operations.
Manage all resources in the section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. T. Esiang Tel No: (018) 387 8100
APPLICATIONS : Email: Jobs-NW@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 29/05 : OFFICE AID REF NO: HR4/4/07/29
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Mmabatho Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 8/10. Knowledge: Cleaning practices. Catering. Office Practice. Skills:
Communication, Interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Ensure a clean office environment at all times. Provide Food Service Aid. Assist
in distributing stock. Assist with messenger functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Modikoe Tel No: (018) 387 8100
APPLICATIONS : Email: Jobs-NW5@LABOUR.gov.za
9
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(False Bay TVET College)
False Bay Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) College is inviting applications from
suitably qualified candidates to fill the following vacancies
APPLICATIONS : Apply online at https://falsebayz83.ngnscan.co.za/
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025. Applications received after the closing date will not be
considered.
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit any copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents on application but must submit a fully signed Z83 form and
detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents will be submitted by shortlisted candidates. Applications received
after the closing date and those that do not comply with the requirements will
not be considered. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications and national certificates (where applicable) evaluated by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The Department reserves the
right not to fill the posts. The successful candidate will be subjected to
personnel suitability checks and other vetting procedures. Applicants are
respectfully informed that correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If notification of an interview is not received within three (3)
months after the closing date, candidates may regard their application as
unsuccessful. The Department will not be liable where applicants use
incorrect/no reference number(s) on their applications.
OTHER POSTS
POST 29/06 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TVET MIS REF NO: ASDTVETMIS/CO/29/04/2025
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : False Bay TVET College, Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade12/Matric National Diploma (NQF6)/bachelor’s degree (NQF7) in
Information management, Computing or equivalent qualification.3-5 years
working experience in information technology or relevant of which a minimum
of 3 years must be supervisory experience. Knowledge of policies and
governance environment of TVET colleges including knowledge of TVET MIS
system, annual reporting requirements by the Higher Education institutions.
Knowledge and understanding of Information and Data management.
Knowledge understanding application and interpretation of office management,
Academia data warehouse and IT prescripts. Advance excel skills and valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : Responsible for managing capturing and data extraction for the college.
Compile reports as required and ensure the integrity of all data. Coordinate the
implementation of data processes. Compile and submit ad-hoc reports as
required by stakeholders (internally and externally). Responsible for
coordination of the strategic planning process and annual report, Management
of human, physical and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : S Baboo Tel No: (021) 787 0800
POST 29/07 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MARKETING & COMMUNICATION REF NO:
ASDMCOM/23/06/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : False Bay TVET College, Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade12/ Matric. Recognized National Diploma/Bachelor’s Degre in
communication/ Marketing or equivalent. 3-5 years proven working experience
in communications and a marketing environment at a supervisory level.
Knowledge of policies and governance environment of TVET Colleges
including knowledge of the annual reporting requirements by the Higher
Education Institutions. Knowledge and understanding of the monitoring of
performance management development system. Knowledge and
understanding of the TVET Administration. Knowledge and understanding of
the Higher Education sector, the policies and relevant legislation. A valid
driver’s license. Computer Literate (MS Office).
DUTIES : Responsible for managing and coordinating marketing, promotions and
branding for the college. Digital Marketing. Managing public relations and
10
media liaison services. Coordinating College events and provide
communication administrative support. Internal and External Communication.
Management of all the Human, Financial and other resources of the unit.
ENQUIRIES : S Baboo Tel No: (021) 787 0800
11
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development’s mandate is to ensure that there is
accessible justice system in our vibrant and evolving constitutional democracy. It is responsible,
amongst others, to enable Access to Justice for all, promote Constitutionalism, Rule of Law, Respect for
Human Rights; and to coordinate the State Litigation and Legal Advisory Services. The Department is
therefore presenting an opportunity to dynamic individuals with relevant competencies to join a dynamic
team in its quest to fulfill its mandate and deliver justice services to the people of South Africa.
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post.
CLOSING DATE : 01 September 2025
NOTE : The application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that do
not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for
submission. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications.
All shortlisted candidates for posts will be subjected to a technical and/or
competency assessment. A pre-entry certificate obtained from National School
of Government (NSG) is required before appointment for all SMS positions.
Candidate will complete a financial disclosure form and also be required to
undergo a security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must
provide the Police Clearance certificate from country of origin only when
shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of
vacant posts the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South
Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant
Human Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Reasonable accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities
including where driver’s license is a requirement. Correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not hear from us within 3
months of this advertisement, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Target.
ERRATUM: The post of Senior Family Advocate: LP9 (X2 Posts) advertised in
the Public Service Vacancy Circular 27 dated 01 August 2025 with Ref No:
2025/63/GP, Centre/ Office was omitted it should be Family Advocate; Pretoria.
Court Interpreter, Magistrate Office: Mamelodi, advertised in the Public Service
Vacancy Circular 27 dated 01 August 2025 with Ref No: 2025/41/GP Language
requirements should read as follows: English, IsiXhosa and IsiZulu or
Setswana
Deputy Director: Area Court Manager, advertised in the Public Service Vacancy
Circular 28, dated 08 August 2025 with Ref No: 05/25/LMP was advertised with
the incorrect salary notch, the correct Salary notch is as follows: R896 436 -R1
055 958 per annum.
Administration Clerk; Magistrate Office: Nebo advertised in the Public Service
Vacancy Circular 28 dated 08 August 2025 with Ref No: 37/25/LMP (Cash Hall)
(X4 Posts) the address was omitted. Applicants should direct their Application
Quoting the relevant reference number to: Postal address: The Court Manager,
Department of Justice & Constitutional Development, Private Bag X102,
NEBO, 1059. Tel No: (013) 264 8209 OR Physical address /Reception area
Magistrate Office, NEBO or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
12
OTHER POSTS
POST 29/08 : SENIOR FAMILY ADVOCATE (LP9) REF NO: 103/25EC
SALARY : R1 195 110 – R1 859 814 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Family Advocate: Port Elizabeth
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree or recognised 4 year legal qualification; At least eight (8) years
appropriate post qualification litigation experience; Admission as an Advocate;
A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge of applicable Standard Operation
Procedures (SOP’s); Knowledge of Foundations of South African law, South
African private law, Constitutional law, Criminal law, Intellectual property,
Evidence and African Customary Law, Muslim Personal Law, Private
International Law, Children’s Act, The Hague Convention of the Civil Aspects
of International Child Abduction, Maintenance Act, reciprocal enforcement of
Maintenance Orders Act, Child Care Act, Extensive knowledge of all local and
international Legislation that regulates protection of children; Knowledge of the
South African legal system, legal practices and related spheres with specific
reference to civil litigation and the law of contract; Knowledge of the
Constitution, the Institution of Legal Proceedings Against Certain Organs of
State Act, State Attorney Act, the Public Finance Management Act, the
Treasury Regulations. Knowledge and experience in office administration;
Proven track record of previous managerial experience in a legal environment.
Skills and Competencies: Good communication (written and verbal) skills;
Research, investigation, presentation, monitoring and evaluation; Attention to
detail; Diversity Management; Dispute and Conflict resolution skills;
Operational and People management; Financial management; Computer
literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage the implementation and monitoring of the
delivery of multi-disciplinary Family Advocate services for children; Manage
and monitor the provisioning of forensic and risk social work services; Manage,
monitor and implement the provisions of the Hague Convention on Civil
aspects of International Child Abduction; Manage and monitor provision of
Forensic Social Work services; Monitor and support organizational
performance of the Family Advocate services. Provide effective people
Management in the office.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Hattingh Tel No: (043) 702 7000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or hand deliver at the
Provincial Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park
complex, East London OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 29/09 : FAMILY ADVOCATE (LP7 – LP8) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R932 904 – R1 539 321 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with
determination of OSD). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Family Advocate, Port Elizabeth Ref No: 104/25EC (X1 Post)
Family Advocate, Mthatha Ref No: 105/25EC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree or recognised 4-year legal qualification; Admission as an
Advocate; Five (5) years appropriate post qualification litigation experience;
Knowledge of Foundations of South African law, South African private law,
Constitutional law, Criminal law, Intellectual property, Evidence and African
Customary Law, Muslim Personal Law, Private International Law, Children’s
Act, The Hague Convention of the Civil Aspects of International Child
Abduction, Maintenance Act, reciprocal enforcement of Maintenance Orders
Act, Child Care Act, Extensive knowledge of all local and international
Legislation that regulates protection of children; Knowledge of the South
African legal system, legal practices and related spheres with specific
reference to civil litigation and the law of contract; Knowledge of the
Constitution, the Institution of Legal Proceedings Against Certain Organs of
State Act, State Attorney Act, the Public Finance Management Act, the
Treasury Regulations. Knowledge and experience in office administration; A
valid driver’s licence. Skills and Competencies: Good communication skills,
both verbal and writing; Litigation and Advocacy skills; Research, investigation,
monitoring, evaluation and report writing skills with intention to detail; Diversity
13
management; Dispute and Conflict resolution skills; Computer literacy; Case
Flow Management.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Perform all functions and duties of the Family
Advocate in accordance with relevant legislation; Monitor the provisioning of
forensic and risk social work services; Monitor and implement the provisions of
the Hague Convention on Civil aspects of International Child Abduction;
Manage and implement the provision of Forensic Social Work Social Work
services; Manage and provide administrative support services; Attend to all
relevant circuit courts within the Province.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs. L de Kock Tel No: (043) 702 7000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or hand deliver at the
Provincial Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park
complex, East London OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 29/10 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FLEET AND LOGISTICS REF NO: 25/88/FMS
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification in Financial Management/ Public Administration/
Supply Chain Management/ Business Administration/ Purchasing
Management/ Logistics Management/ Transport Management as recognized
by SAQA; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in fleet and logistics environment
at a supervisory (Assistant Director) level; Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act, Budget Management; Knowledge of Public Service
Regulations, Public Service Acts and Treasury Regulations. Skills and
Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership; Programme and project
management; Financial management; Change management; Knowledge
management; Service delivery innovation (SDI); People management and
empowerment; Client orientation and customer focus; Communication skills;
Managing interpersonal conflict and resolving problems; Honesty and integrity;
Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage the provision of fleet management services;
Manage the logistics management services; Manage the administration of
stores services; Monitor and manage the provision of cellphones and data
services; Manage human, finance and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Van Ross Tel No: (012) 315 1094
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address:
Application Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Street, Pretoria 0001 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 29/11 : OFFICE MANAGER (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : State Attorney, Port Elizabeth Ref No: 100/25EC (X1 Post)
State Attorney, Mthatha Ref No: 101/25EC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A 3 years National Diploma/Degree in Public Administration/ Human
Resources Management/ Administration or Business Administration at NQF-
Level 6; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in administration environment;
Knowledge of HR matters and its policies, framework; Procurement directives
and procedures, Knowledge and understanding of the Constitution and the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Skills and Competencies;
Applied Strategic thinking, Applying technology; Budgeting and financial
management; Communication and information Management; Continuous
Improvement; Citizen focus and responsiveness; Developing others; Impact
and influence; Problem solving and analysis; Planning and Organising;
Decision Making; Project Management; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage procurement and Finance of goods and
services; Manage documents for registry support services; Undertake policy or
line function tasks as required Coordinate external strategic alliances between
14
the office and other stakeholders; Manage general support and resources
services; Manage human resource services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Jilana Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7010
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or hand deliver at the
Provincial Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park
complex, East London OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 29/12 : COURT INTERMEDIARY REF NO: 107/25EC
(Re-advertisement)
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Peddie
REQUIREMENTS : A three year Bachelor Degree/ National Diploma academic qualification in one
of the following fields; Teaching, Social Work/ Family Counselling, Child Care
and youth development, Paediatrics, Psychiatry, Clinical counselling,
Educational Psychologist; Applicants must be duly registered with the relevant
professional/ scientific organization/body in their field of specialization;
Minimum of three years working experience in the applicable field; Experience
in working with different types of disabilities, exposure to court procedure, court
etiquette, legal terms and terminology and functions of courts will be added
advantages; Knowledge of the relevant legal and regulatory framework.
(Constitution of RSA, 1996; Criminal Procedure Act, 1977 (Act No 51 of 1977),
particularly sections 153, 158 and 170A of the Act; Criminal Law (Sexual
Offences and Related Matters) Amendment Act, 2007 (Act No 32 of 2007);
Children’s Act, 2005 (Act No 38 of 2005); Domestic Violence Act (Act No 116
of 1998). A valid driver’s license; Knowledge of any foreign languages will be
an added an advantage. Skills and Competencies: Communication and
empathetic listening skills (with children, persons with mental disabilities and
other traumatized witnesses), Trauma and basic counselling skills;
Interpersonal skills; Customer focus and responsiveness; Administrative skills;
Computer literacy (Ms Word, PowerPoint, Outlook, Excel); Problem-solving
and decision-making skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide intermediary services to children, persons
with mental disabilities and other traumatized witnesses; Provide specialized
child language and disability services; Maintain intermediary room by ensuring
that the equipment of the private testifying room is always in good order;
Provide support services to witnesses and make appropriate referrals, where
necessary; Render administration support services in court; Assist children to
testify with the aid of anatomically-detailed dolls.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Ndamase Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7129
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or hand deliver at the Provincial
Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park complex,
East London.
POST 29/13 : ASSISTANT STATE ATTORNEY (LP3-LP4) REF NO: 99/25EC
SALARY : R377 523 – R1 032 906 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : State Attorney: East London
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB or 4 year recognized legal qualification; Admission as an Attorney; At
least 2 years’ appropriate post qualification legal/litigation experience; A
thorough knowledge of legal practice, office management, accounting system
and trust accounts; Knowledge of the government prescripts and
transformation objective as well as the Constitution of South Africa; Knowledge
of legal proceedings, personal injuries claims, contracts, labour cases and
criminal cases; A valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: Computer
literacy; Legal research and drafting; Dispute resolution; Case flow
management; Strategic and conceptual orientation; Communication skills
(written and verbal).
15
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Handle litigation and appeals in the High Courts,
Magistrate’s Court, Labour Courts, Land Claims Court and Commission for
Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA), Draft and/or settle all types of
agreements on behalf of the various clients; Render legal opinions and advice;
Handle all forms of arbitration, including inter-departmental arbitration and debt
collection.
ENQUIRIES Mrs. L de Kock Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7130
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or e-mail to the
address provided on the DPSA advert or hand deliver at the Provincial Office,
Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park complex, East
London OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 29/14 : FAMILY COUNSELLOR/SOCIAL WORKER (GR1 – GR4) (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 200 – R725 754 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Family Advocate: Vosman Ref No: 2025/29/MP (X1 Post)
Office of the family advocate: Polokwane Ref No: 16/25/LMP (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree in Social Workers or equivalent qualification, Appropriate
experience in Social Worker after registration as Social Worker with the
SACSSP. Registration with SA Council for Social Service Profession
(SACSSP), Knowledge and experience in Mediating, Court experience in
rendering expert evidence; Knowledge and application of Family Law, including
Mediation in certain Divorce Matters Act. Children’s Act, Maintenance Act and
Domestic Act (inclusive of Hague Convention on International Child Abduction);
A valid driver’s license and willing to travel extensively within the province.
Skills and Competencies: Communication (written and verbal) skills, Computer
literacy (MS Word), Mediation and interviewing skills; Conflict resolution,
evaluation and report writing skills; Diversity and attention to details.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Conduct inquiries to ascertain the best interest of the
minor children involved by means of mediation and /or evaluation as per
relevant legislation; Evaluate information and compile forensic court reports;
Act as expert witness for the Family Advocate in Court; Ensure proper case
flow administration, Travel to townships and rural areas to conduct enquires,
interview parties and source references in Family Law disputes.
ENQUIRIES : Mpumalanga: Ms KN Zwane at 060 532 2006
Limpopo: Mr L Mapelane Tel No: (015) 287 2035/ Mr MP Mongwe Tel No: (015)
287 2034.
APPLICATIONS : Mpumalanga: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank
centre, 4th floor building, Nelspruit, 1200 or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Limpopo: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X9526, Polokwane, 0700 OR Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Provincial Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0699 or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Candidates whose name appears on Part B of the Child Protection Register as
mandated by the Section 123 (5) of the Children’s Act, 2005 need not to apply.
Applicants are required to attach proof of registration with SACSSP. Separate
application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant reference
number.
POST 29/15 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : State Attorney, Mthatha Ref No: 102/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Kempton Park Ref No: 2025/67/GP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Waterval Ref No: 20/25/LMP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: TIyani; Ref No: 21/25/LMP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Tzaneen Ref No: 22/25/LMP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Nkowankowa Ref No: 23/25/LMP (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent; Three (3) years’ experience in
Administration; Understanding of the legislative framework governing the
16
Public Service; knowledge of Public Finance Management Act, Treasury
Regulations; Departmental Financial Instructions (DFI), Public Service Act and
other relevant legislation. Skills and Competencies: Communication (written
and verbal) skills; Computer Literacy (MS Office); Planning and Organizing
skill; Ability to work under pressure; Problem solving skills; Customer service;
Document management and filing; Numerical skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Supervise and render clerical support services;
Supervise and provide Supply Chain clerical services within the component;
Supervise and provide personnel administration clerical support services within
the component; Supervise and provide financial administration support
services in the component; Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape: Mr Ndamase Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7129
Gauteng: Ms T Maphoto Tel No: (011) 332 9000
Limpopo: Ms M.R Phalane Tel No: (015) 287 2036 or Ms M.F Mathosa Tel No:
(015) 287 2035
APPLICATIONS : Eastern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or hand deliver at the Provincial
Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park complex,
East London
Gauteng: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Office, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 OR Physical
address: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development; 7th floor
Schreiner Chambers, 94 Pritchard Street; Johannesburg or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Limpopo Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X 9526, Polokwane 0700 OR Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Provincial Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0699
OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 29/16 : SENIOR COURT INTERPRETER REF NO: 24/25/LMP
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Giyani
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 4/ Grade 12 and National Diploma in Legal Interpreting or
equivalent qualification in the field of languages and A Minimum of three years
practical experience in court interpreting; OR Grade 12 with 10 year’s practical
experience in court interpreting; Proficiency in English and two or more
indigenous languages; Language requirements: Venda, Tsonga and Shona:
Skills and Competencies: Communication skills (verbal and written); Computer
literacy (Ms Word and Excel); Administrative and organizational skills; Sound
interpersonal relations; Ability to work under pressure; Time management;
Problem solving; Analytical thinking; Accuracy and attention to detail.
DUTIES : Render interpreting services; Translate legal documents and exhibits; Record
cases in criminal record book; Draw case records on request of Magistrate
/Prosecutors; Make arrangements for foreign language interpreters in
consultation with the prosecutors; Perform specific line and administrative
support functions; Assist with capturing on ICMS; Supervise Court Interpreters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MP Mongalo Tel No: (015) 287 2037 OR Ms MF Mathosa Tel No: (015) 287
2036
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X9526, Polokwane, 0700 or Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Provincial Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0699
OR Recruitment portal: https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Applicants will be subjected to a language test.
POST 29/17 : MAINTENANCE INVESTIGATOR REF NO: 2025/68/GP
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Krugersdorp
17
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent qualification; Relevant Administrative
experience in Family Law Matters; Knowledge of the Maintenance Act (Act of
99 of 1989). Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Office); Good
communication skills (verbal and written); Planning and organizing; Good
interpersonal relations; Time management; Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Serve Maintenance Summons, Warrants and
Garnishee Orders for the District in terms of the Maintenance Act; Locate
whereabouts of Persons; Give Testimony in Court under oath; Render
administrative support to the Office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. V Shiburi Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Provincial
Office-Gauteng, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 or Physical Address:
Provincial Office–Gauteng; Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; 7th floor Schreiner chambers, 94 Pritchard, Johannesburg or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 29/18 : ASSISTANT MASTER (MR1 – MR5) (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R252 855 – R1 111 323 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Master of The High Court, Kimberley Ref No: 27/25/NC/MAS-KIM (X1 Post)
Master of The High Court, Bisho Ref No: 92/25EC (X1 Post)
Master of The High Court, Port Elizabeth Ref No: 93/25EC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : LLB Degree or four years’ recognized legal qualification; Knowledge of the
Administration of Estates Act, Compliance Act, Mental Health Act, Insolvency
Act, Companies Act, Close Corporations Act, Trust Property Control Act and
other relevant legislation; Experience in the functional field and services
provided by Master of the High Court. Skills and Competencies: Planning and
organizing; Dispute resolution; Time management; Communication skills;
Ability to work under pressure and independently in a highly pressurized
environment; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage the administration of Deceased Estates,
Insolvent Estates, Trust and Curatorship; Provide strategic direction to the
office; Monitor the implementation of departmental policy, procedures and
legislations; Manage the operations regarding the Guardian’s Funds and
resources in the office; Ensure continuous quality improvement of processes
and policies.
ENQUIRIES : Northern Cape: Mr X. Jama Tel No: (053) 8311 942
Eastern Cape: Ms Msimang Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7136
APPLICATIONS : Northern Cape Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: Postal address: The Provincial Head: Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X6106, Kimberley, 8300. or hand delivers at the
New Public Buildings, (Magistrates Court) of Knight and Stead Streets, 7th
floor, Kimberley, 8301. Applicants who wish to post their application forms are
encouraged to utilize courier services in light of the current postal service
challenges or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Eastern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or hand deliver
at the Provincial Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley
Park complex, East London OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 29/19 : MAINTENANCE OFFICER (MR1-MR5) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R252 855 – R1 111 323 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Thabazimbi Ref No: 25/25/LMP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Soshanguve Ref No: 2025/34/GP (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree or a four (4) year recognized legal qualification; Appropriate
post qualification legal experience. Knowledge of maintenance system,
Maintenance Act and family law matters; Understanding of all services and
procedures in the area of Maintenance; A valid driver’s licence. Language
requirements (Soshanguve): English, Xitsonga and Setswana; Skills and
Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Office); Good communication skills
18
(verbal and written); Numeracy skills; Good interpersonal relations; Problem
solving skills; Report writing and time management skills; Accuracy and
attention to details.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Perform the powers, duties or functions of a
Maintenance Officer in terms of the Maintenance Act; Obtain financial
information for maintenance enquiries; Guide Maintenance investigators in the
performance of their functions; Implement Bench orders; Provide reports and
compile statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Limpopo: Ms MF Mathosa Tel No: (015) 287 2035/ Mr P Mongwe Tel No: (015)
287 2034
Gauteng: Ms. V Shiburi Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Limpopo: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X9526, Polokwane, 0700 OR Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Provincial Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0699
OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Gauteng Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Provincial Office-Gauteng, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 OR Physical
Address: Provincial Office–Gauteng; Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; 7th floor Schreiner chambers, 94 Pritchard, Johannesburg OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 29/20 : LEGAL SECRETARY (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : State Attorney: Port Elizabeth Ref No: 106/25EC (X1 Post)
Office of the State Attorney: Cape Town Ref No: 54/2025/SA/WC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS Grade 12 (with typing as subject or Secretarial Certificate or relevant
training/qualification that will enable the person to perform the work
satisfactorily). Knowledge of the relevant policies and prescripts Skills and
Competencies: Computer literacy; Communication skills (verbal and written);
Planning and organizing skills; Interpersonal skills; Attention to detail; Integrity
and loyalty; Good telephone etiquette; Sound organizing skills; High level of
reliability. Attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide secretarial and administrative support;
Render administrative support for meetings, functions and conferences;
Provide general clerical office administration; Prepare documents for account
payment processing.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape: Mr Ndamase Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7129
Western Cape: Mr M Koopman Tel No: (021) 462 5471
APPLICATIONS : Western Cape: Please forward your application to: Provincial Head: Private
Bag X9171, Cape Town, 8000 or physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th Floor
Norton Rose House, Cape Town or to: https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Eastern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or hand deliver
at the Provincial Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley
Park complex, East London or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 29/21 : SECRETARY: SUB-CLUSTER HEAD REF NO: 64/25/LMP
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (with typing as subject or Secretarial Certificate or any other
training/qualification that will enable the person to perform the work
satisfactorily). Skills and Competencies: Planning and organizing; Computer
literacy (Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Internet); Good
communication (verbal and written) skills; Presentation skills; Problem solving;
Good interpersonal relations; Proper usage of presentation equipment; Ability
to correctly interpret relevant documentation; Numeracy; Intermediate typing
skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provides a Secretarial/receptionist support services
to the manager; Provides clerical support service to the manager; Provides
support to manager regarding meetings.
19
ENQUIRIES : Mr MC Rapetsoa Tel No: (015) 294 6000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Court Manager, Magistrate Polokwane Private Bag X9320,
Polokwane, 0700 or Physical address: Reception area Magistrate Polokwane,
Reception area or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 29/22 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X10 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Family Advocate: Nelspruit Ref No: 2025/25/MP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Emgwenya Office: Ref No: 2025/07/MP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Krugersdorp Ref No: 2025/69/GP (X1 Post)
Master of The High Court: Bisho Ref No: 96/25EC (X1 Post)
Family Advocate: Port Elizabeth Ref No: 97/25EC (X1 Post)
State Attorney: Port Elizabeth Ref No: 98/25EC (X1 Post)
Master of The High Court: Thohoyandou Ref No: 36/25/LMP (X4 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render general clerical support services; Provide
supply chain clerical support services within the component; Provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component; Provide financial
administration support services in the component. Skills and Competencies:
Excellent communication (written and verbal skills}; Computer Literacy (MS
Office); Administrative and organization skill; Ability to work under pressure;
Customer service; Document management and filing; Numerical skills.
ENQUIRIES : Mpumalanga: Mr TV Mavundla at 078 802 0741 or Mr LT Mndebele at 078 802
0880
Gauteng: Ms V Shiburi Tel No: (011) 332 9000
Eastern Cape: Mr Ndamase Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7129
Limpopo: Mr L Mapelane Tel No: (015) 287 2035 or Mr MI Modiba Tel No: (015)
287 2034
APPLICATIONS : Mpumalanga: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank centre
,4th floor building, Nelspruit 1200 or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Gauteng: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Office, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 OR Physical
address: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development; 7th floor
Schreiner Chambers, 94 Pritchard Street; Johannesburg or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
: Eastern Cape Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or hand deliver
at the Provincial Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley
Park complex, East London or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Limpopo: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X9526, Polokwane 0700 or Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Provincial Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0699
OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 29/23 : TELECOM OPERATOR REF NO: 79/25EC
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Motherwel
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Skills and Competencies: Communication
(written and verbal); Computer literacy (MS Office); Good interpersonal skills;
Good public relations skills; Ability to work under pressure; Customer service
and document management.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Handle incoming and outgoing calls, transfer calls,
take and convey messages; Ensure that the switchboard is manned at all
times; Attend to all other duties that may be required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Williams Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7131
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or hand deliver at the
20
Provincial Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park
complex, East London OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
POST 29/24 : MESSENGER (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Alexandria Ref No: 75/25EC (X1 Post))
Magistrate Office: Aliwal North Ref No: 76/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Flagstaff Ref No: 77/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Mthatha Ref No 78/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Namakgale Ref No: 65/23/LMP (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10/Abet level 4; A valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies:
Interpersonal skills; Creative thinking; Customer service orientation; Problem
analysis; Self-management; Ability to work in a team; Technical proficiency.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render driver/ messenger support services; Collect
correspondence, distribute mail and parcels to the various office; Collect
documents from respective government institutions; Transport officials to
various destinations; Render clerical support services.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape: Ms C Williams Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7131
Limpopo: Ms M.J Mawela Tel No: (015) 769 1424
APPLICATIONS : Eastern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or hand deliver
at the Provincial Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley
Park complex, East London OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Limpopo: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal Address: The Court Manager, Magistrate Namakgale, Private Bag
X11007, Namakgale, 1391 or Physical address: Reception Area, Magistrate
Namakgale OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 29/25 : SECURITY OFFICER (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: East London Ref No: 89/25EC (X2 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Alice Ref No: 90/25EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Polokwane Ref No: 66/25/LMP (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12; Knowledge of Physical Security procedures and processes, Safety
and Security Legislative Frameworks, PSIRA Grade C. Skills and
Competencies: Communication skills (verbal and written); Problem solving;
Good interpersonal relations; Planning and organizing skills; Computer
literacy; Ability to operate security equipment; Understanding of confidentiality
in Government.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide access control; Improve safety in the building
or premises; Prohibit unauthorized items from entering or leaving the building
or premises; Watch CCTV cameras; Enroll staff on bio-metric system; Provide
access to staff coming to the premises over weekends.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape: Mr Nofemela Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7135
Limpopo: Mr M.C Rapetsoa Tel No: (015) 294 6000
APPLICATIONS : Eastern Cape Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or hand deliver
at the Provincial Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley
Park complex, East London OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Limpopo: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal address: The Court Manager: Magistrate Polokwane, Department of
Justice and Constitutional Development, Private Bag X9320, Polokwane 0700
OR hand deliver at Reception Area, Magistrate Polokwane opposite
Polokwane Municipality. OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE Separate application must be made per centre and quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 29/26 : CLEANER REF NO: 108/25EC
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
21
CENTRE : Magistrate, Mdantsane
REQUIREMENTS Grade 10/ ABET level 4. Skills and Competencies: Concern for others; Creative
thinking; Citizen service orientation; Decision making; Diversity citizenship;
Communication skills (verbal and written); Problem analysis; Self-
management; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide cleaning services; Keeping and maintaining
of cleaning material and equipment; Perform general assistant work; Perform
any other relevant duties that may arise.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Nofemela Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7135
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or hand deliver at the
Provincial Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park
complex, East London, or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
22
ANNEXURE G
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 01 September 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success and the National
Treasury ICT unit was unable to assist. The applicant’s profile on the e-
Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83 and it is the responsibility
of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or their applications
will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note. Certain documentation
will still be required to be uploaded on the system such as copies of all
qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric certificate, ID, etc.,
however these documents need not be certified at point of application, however
certification will be required prior to attending the interview. Please note: All
shortlisted candidates will be subjected to two assessments. The first
assessment will be a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job, while the second assessment will be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment, the logistics of which will be communicated by the
Department. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-
entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government,
available as an online course on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to finalisation of appointment, is a
requirement for all SMS positions. For SMS positions certain candidates may
be required to undergo additional Psychometric Assessments. All
qualifications, criminal and SA citizenship checks will be conducted on all short-
listed candidates and, where applicable, additional checks will be conducted in
line with the new DPSA Directive effective 01 April 2024. By submitting your
application, it also means you consent to the National Treasury processing your
information for Human Resources Management purposes. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level
certificates) evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at
your own expense. Upon appointment, successful candidates will be required
to sign a Performance Agreement within 3 months from date of appointment
and for candidates whose appointment exceeds 12 calendar months will be
appointed on probation for the period of twelve (12) calendar months excluding
leave taken as prescribed by Public Service Regulation 68. The status of your
application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system. However, if you have
not received feedback from the National Treasury within 3 months of the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful NB: The National
Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned posts, withdraw or
to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. All queries must be
submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment Support
Team on Recruitment.Enquiries@treasury.gov.za .The National Treasury is
compliant with the requirements of POPIA.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 29/27 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL BUDGET ANALYSIS REF NO: S027/2025
Division: Intergovernmental Relations Division (IGR)
Purpose: To strategically monitor the implementation of provincial government
budgets processes and oversee the smooth running of in-year budget reporting
and provincial performance management practices
SALARY : R1 494 900 - R1 787 328 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
23
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum Bachelor’s degree (equivalent
to NQF level 7) in Economics or Accounting or Public Finance, A minimum 5
years’ experience at a senior managerial level obtained in budgeting
preparation and allocations, Knowledge and experience of budgetary systems
within the provincial environment, Knowledge and experience of financial
analysis, Knowledge and experience of policy development and
implementation, Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service Senior
Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Budget preparation: Coordinate budget preparation process for the Provincial
governments, Primarily monitor and assess provincial government budgets
and ensure alignment with broad national priorities, Lead and participate in
annual budget provincial MTEC hearings. Budget implementation and
Monitoring: Oversee Provincial government in-year monitoring and reporting
system, Monitor trends in municipal budgets and expenditure, Facilitate the
publication of quarterly provincial Section 32 information, including conditional
grants, Plan and coordinate annual provincial visits and formulate reports,
Monitor and maintain database to monitor provincial government.
Intergovernmental coordination Coordinate the collection of budgetary and
financial data for the annual IGFR, MTBPS and Budget Review, Sectoral
responsibilities for Education, Health, Social Development, Housing and
Infrastructure, Roads Transport and Works, Participate in technical meetings
and play supporting role to concurrent functions in managing these forums.
Financial Management and Budget Reform: Promote effective financial
management in the Provincial government, Provide support, guidance and
monitor implementation of the PFMA at Provincial government level, Oversee
provincial government budget reform and new budget formats, including
SDBIP and annual reports. Intergovernmental Grants: Monitor implementation
of intergovernmental grant system, Contribute towards drafting of annual
Division of Revenue Bill, Determine, maintain and monitor the implementation
of annual provincial government payment schedules in terms of the Division of
Revenue Act.
ENQUIRIES : Only enquiries (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
24
ANNEXURE H
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office (Midrand): Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Director: Human Resources, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand deliver applications to the Office
of the Chief Justice, Human Resource Management, 188, 14th Road,
Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685.
Western Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Postal Address: Private
Bag X9020, Cape Town, 8000, or hand deliver applications to the Office of the
Chief Justice, Provincial Service Centre 30 Queen Victoria Street, Cape Town
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. Each application form must
be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both pages by the applicant.
The application must indicate the correct job title, the office where the position
is advertised and the reference number as stated in the advert. Failure by the
applicant to fully complete, sign and initial the application form will lead to 40
disqualification of the application during the selection process. Applications on
the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you be in a possession
of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate
from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Dual citizenship holders
must provide the Police Clearance certificate from the country of origin (when
shortlisted all non - SA Citizens will be required to submit a copy of proof of
South African permanent residence). Applications that do not comply with the
above-mentioned requirements will not be considered. Suitable candidates will
be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, financial checks,
qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference checks and employment
verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will
be expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo
a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The Office the Chief
Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA), Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided
to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose
of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application
was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal
information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your application
null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the security and
confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment process
25
OTHER POSTS
POST 29/28 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS REF NO:
2025/208/OCJ
SALARY : R397 116 - R468 790 per annum (Level 08). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. A minimum of three (3) year’s National Diploma in Labour Relations/
Human Resource management/Law/ equivalent qualification (NQF Level 6) as
recognized by SAQA. A valid Driver License and Willingness to travel. A
minimum of Two (2) years’ experience in Labour Relations environment.
Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Public Service
Regulations (PSR). Public Service Act (PSA). Labour Relations Act (LRA).
Employment Equity Act (EEA). PSCBC Resolutions and CCMA Procedure.
Skills and Competencies: Decision making skill; Problem solving skill
Planning, Organizing and Time Management; Excellent verbal and written
communication including negotiation and diplomacy; Policy analysis and
development; Research and analytical skills; Report writing and editing skills;
Excellent communication skills (written and verbal); Understanding of the
Constitution and relevant legislation; Computer literacy (MS Word, Outlook and
Internet); Ability to access and utilize computer, Ability to work under pressure
and people’s management; In depth knowledge and understanding of all
relevant Human Resources Legislative Framework, Regulations and
Prescripts. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Facilitate compliance with the disciplinary code and grievance procedure.
Facilitate awareness programmes on management of discipline, the Code of
Conduct. Maintain sound relations with all stakeholders. Provide administrative
services in the sub-directorate. Supervise and develop staff. Competently
representing the Department at external disputes resolution forums. Assist in
the management of strike action within the department. Develop and manage
the information and records off all the activities in the Employment Relations
Unit and capture cases on PERSAL. Accurately update the Case management
system. Coordinate and handle all misconduct cases within the Department
promptly and effectively. Finalise all grievances and complaints received from
employees in the Department timeously. Assist in the Coordination of the
effective collective bargaining within the department by ensuring healthy
working relationships and engagement with the relevant recognized trade
unions.
ENQUIRIES : Technical related enquiries: Mr T Mashele Tel No: (010 493 2530
HR related enquiries: Ms S Tshidino Tel No: (010) 493 2500/ 8774
APPLICATIONS : can be sent via email at 2025/208/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 29/29 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2025/209/OCJ (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Western Cape Division of The High Court, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. A minimum of two (2) years secretarial experience. Experience in a
legal/ court environment will serve as an added advantage. An LLB Degree,
Bachelor of Law Degree or a minimum of 20 modules completed towards an
LLB, BA or Bachelor of Law Degree will serve as an advantage. A valid driver’s
license will serve as an added advantage. Shortlisted candidates will be
required to pass a typing test. Skills and Competencies: Proficiency in English;
Good communication skills (verbal and written); Administration and
organizational skills; Exceptional interpersonal skills; Ability to meet strict
deadlines and to work under pressure; Attention to detail; Customer care
service skills; Excellent typing skills; Confidentiality; Time management;
Computer literacy (MS Office); Ability to provide support services to a Judge in
the office and in a court setting; Attend and provide support services including
court administration services for a Judge at circuit courts around the Western
Cape.
26
DUTIES : Provide general legal secretarial/ legal administrative duties to the Judge.
Typing (or formatting) of draft memorandums, directions, opinions, letters for
or by the Judge. Manage and type correspondence, judgments and orders for
the Judge (including Dictaphone typing). Arrange and diarize appointments,
meetings, official visits, make travel and accommodation arrangements for
circuit, meetings etc with the relevant administration unit at the court. Store,
keep and safeguard all case files and update the case files with postponements
and/or orders made by the Judge. Update files with documents received.
Update exhibit and witness list in criminal matters. Perform digital recordings
of court proceedings on urgent court cases after hours or on circuit court and
ensure the integrity of recordings. Accompany the Judge to court and keep a
record of times (start and end times daily, including adjournments). Compile
court statistics daily and ensure accurate updates on the statistical tools.
Management of the Judge’s vehicle, logbook and servicing thereof. Compile
data and prepare reports and documents for assigned Judges as necessary,
including expense reports, continuing legal hours, financial disclosure
statements and case management. Arrange refreshments for the Judge and
his or her visitors and attend to their needs. Manage the Judge’s library and
the updating of loose-leaf publications. Attend to and execute requests from
the judiciary in connection with cases and case-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Enquiries: Ms N Chwethiso Tel No: (021) 480 2411
HR Related Enquires: Mr SD Hlongwane Tel No: (021) 469 4032
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/209/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
27
ANNEXURE I
DEPARTMENT OF TOURISM
The Department of Tourism is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Department through the filling of these posts.
APPLICATIONS : Applications, quoting the relevant reference number must be forwarded to the
attention of Chief Director: HR Management and Development at Department
of Tourism, Private Bag X424, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at Tourism House,
17 Trevenna Road, Sunnyside, Pretoria or by email as provided. Email
Application: Recruitment12@tourism.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025, 16:30 (Late applications will not be considered)
NOTE : Application must include a Z83 form and CV only. The electronic application
must be in PDF format and made up of a single document file, indicating the
correct job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your
email. Failure to do so, your application being disqualified. Applications quoting
the relevant reference number must be submitted on the new form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect application
for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each advertised post must be
accompanied by its own application form for employment and must be fully
completed, initialled, and signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure
to fully complete, initial, and sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the
application during the selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C, and D of
the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on
the Z83, it is acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached.
However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under
Part “F” must be answered, and declaration signed. Only an updated
comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience, if any) and a completed
and signed new Z83 application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other related
documents on or before the day of the interview, following the communication
from Human Resources, and such qualifications (s) and other related
documents (s) will be in line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA
Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned instructions/
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a (1) practical exercise as part of the assessment
method to determine the candidate’s suitability based on the posts’ technical
and generic requirements, and (2) an ethical conduct test. Candidates will
further be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification, and employment
verification). Some of the interviewed candidates for Senior Management level
vacancies may be subjected to a 2-day competency assessment that will test
generic competencies. Appointment will be subject to the signing of the
performance agreement, employment contract, and annual financial
disclosure, and must attain a security clearance applicable to the post. The
Department reserves the right not to make an appointment. You are consenting
to the Department of Tourism processing your personal information, subject to
POPIA, by applying for this post.
OTHER POST
POST 29/30 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CONTENT WRITER AND EDITOR REF NO:
DT12/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma (NQF 6) or Bachelor’s degree (NQF 7) in Language
Practice/ Linguistics/ Indigenous Languages/ Communications or Journalism.
Minimum of five years’ working experience in language, editorial services and
protocol, of which three years must be at supervisory level. Experience in
published and electronic content. In-depth understanding of South African
government strategies/plans, processes, programmes and communications.
28
Knowledge of the use of Official Languages Act. Good understanding of
government priorities and programmes. Knowledge of government’s language
policy. Understanding of the tourism sector. Understanding of protocol.
Understanding of South African government processes and programmes.
Knowledge of the media landscape and South Africa’s communication
environment. Good leadership skills. Good project management skills. Good
presentation skills. Interpersonal skills. Excellent writing skills in regard to
opinion pieces, articles, messaging, scripts, media statements and speeches.
Excellent editing and proof-reading skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for coordinating the development
and review of the departmental language policy and ensuring alignment with
the Use of Official Languages Act and its amendments; facilitating the
implementation of the language policy through departmental presentations and
awareness campaigns; representing the department on National Language
Forums and workshops related to language policy implementation by the
Department of Sports, Arts and Culture and Pan South African Language
Board (PanSALB); managing and overseeing the translation of documents
of/by the department into relevant official languages; advising on the
development of specifications for SCM processes on sign languages and
braille; organising South African Sign Language interpreting for departmental
activities; ensuring that there are sign language interpreters in flagship
departmental events; writing articles, speeches, forewords and opinion pieces
for departmental, governmental and external publications that are strategically
informed; writing media messages and key messages on departmental
programmes which are aligned to governmental and departmental strategic
documents; liaising with stakeholders to develop webpages, social media
messages, posters and infographic messages for departmental programmes;
providing guidance and supporting on the development of content for
stakeholders including tourism signage, brochures, reports, newsletters and
speaking notes; writing media statements related to government policies and
departmental events and programmes that are aligned to governmental and
departmental strategic documents; writing content for community outreach and
engagement activities including town hall meetings, public forums and surveys;
conducting desktop research, monitoring trends and identifying strategic
issues to guide the development of content and key messages; providing
guidance to departmental employees on the development of articles and
opinion pieces for internal and external publications; editing content of high-
level publications intended for external stakeholders; editing and proofreading
content for departmental publications; editing policy documents, white papers
and other confidential and non-confidential documents; ensuring adherence to
the GCIS editorial style guide; conducting workshops on the GCIS editorial
style guide.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S de Bruin Tel No: (012) 444 6605
NOTE : EE Requirements: White Male, Coloured Male and Asian Male Candidates are
encouraged to apply.
29
ANNEXURE J
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT
Department of Transport is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer with clear employment
equity targets. Department of Transport is an equal opportunity employer and these posts will be filled in
accordance with employment equity targets of the department.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Transport, Private Bag X193, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at
the 159 Forum Building, Cnr Struben and Bosman Street, Pretoria for attention
Recruitment Unit. Room 4034 or email to: Recruitment@dot.gov.za. Note:
email applications must be sent as one attachment to avoid non-delivery of the
email and only quotes the name of the post you are applying for on the Subject
Line as directed on the post note.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
NOTE : Applications must be accompanied by a completed new Z83 form, obtainable
from any Public Service Department, (or obtainable at). Applicants must fill in
full new Z83 form part A, B, C, and D. A recent updated comprehensive CV
(previous experience must be comprehensively detailed, i.e. positions held and
dates). Applicants will submit certified copies of all qualifications and ID
document on the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). The Department reserves the right not to fill the post. All shortlisted
candidates for will be subjected to undertake a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job; the logistics will be communicated
to candidates prior to the interviews. Recommended candidates will also be
required to attend a generic managerial competency assessment after the
interviews also take a note that National School of Governance (NGS) has
introduce compulsory SMS pre-entry certificate with effect from 01 April 2020
as Minimum Entry Requirements for Senior Management Services (submitted
prior to appointment) and can be accessed through the following link:
http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The
successful candidate must disclose to the Director-General particulars of all
registrable financial interests, sign a performance agreement and employment
contract with the Director-General within three months from the date of
assumption of duty. The successful candidate must be willing to sign an oath
of secrecy with the Department. Applicants will be expected to be available for
selection interviews and assessments at a time, date and place as determined
by the Department. An offer letter will only be issued to the successful
candidate once the following has been verified educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. Please
note: Correspondence will only be entered into with short-listed candidates.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 29/31 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO:
DOT/HRM/2025/12
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), of which 30% can be
structured according to individual’s needs.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF 8 as recognised by SAQA in Human Resources
Management / Human Resources Development / Public Management /
Administration / Business Management / Law as recognized by SAQA with 8
years’ experience within corporate services environment. 8 years of experience
at a senior management level. Certificate of Successful completion of the
National School of Government’s Senior Management Service; Pre-Entry
Programme. Knowledge and skills: High level ability to analyse and synthesise
information and to formulate policy and strategy, analytical abilities, excellent
liaison skills, sound knowledge of government protocol and processes, sound
knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations,
and Medium-Term process; compilation of management reports;
Communication; Financial Management; Strategic capability & leadership;
Project/Programme Management; Training and development; Change
Management.
30
DUTIES : Oversee the effective implementation of overall human resource systems
processes and procedures and development strategies. Oversee HR planning
and administration services, oversee the development and improvement of
departmental and transport sector capacity, Monitor the implementation of
Training and Development interventions in support of HR strategies, oversee
organizational Development, Change Management, and employee health and
wellness in order to improve the overall performance and effectiveness of the
organisation. Oversee the effective and efficient implementation of corporate
service value-added processes, oversee the provision of effective secretariat
services to the departmental strategic engagements, oversee the effective
implementation of security policies and strategies and manage the
performance of internal and external security personnel, oversee and monitor
the provision of effective travel and facilities management services and
oversee the effective management and administration of the government motor
transport process and government fleet contracts. Oversee the effective overall
coordination and management of international relations and engagements and
facilitate effective transport regional integration, oversee and monitor the
management and facilitation of sound bilateral relations and engagements
across the transport sector and oversee the management of multilateral
relations and engagements across the transport sector. Provide monitoring
oversight of professional legal services to the Minister, Department and its
Agencies, lead and provide effective corporate legal services to the
Department, Minister, and the domestic and international Air Service councils,
oversee the development of an appropriate legislation in support of
departmental policies, oversee the provision of effective governance structures
and processes to the public entities. Provide strategic direction in the provision
of internal and external communications services, Oversee the effective
management of internal communication, lead the effective management of
media relations, monitoring and analysis of media, manage and maintain
strategic stakeholder relations of the organisation through the implementation
of stakeholder management strategy, monitor and control content development
and publication services and monitor the implementation of the communication
strategy. Ensure effective and efficient provisioning of information and
communication technology (ICT) management services to support
organizational objectives, Monitor the provision of effective and efficient (IT)
infrastructure, establish and manage effective integrated information systems
for the Department and its entities, oversee the effective provision of
management information services and ensure effective ICT governance,
enterprise architecture and information technology security for the department
and its entities. Effectively manage the resources of the Branch, provide
guidance and adequate support for and development of the staff of the branch,
ensure compliance with all administrative requirements, regulations, rules, and
instructions pertaining to the branch, establish and maintain governance and
administrative systems continuity within the work of the branch, Develop
financial reports for forecasting, trending and results analysis, Evaluate
infrastructure spending plans, monitor expenditure against budget allocations
and attend to budget variances, Monitor quality control of work, ensure the
compilation of annual report and strategic plan of the branch, authorize
expenses aligned to approved budget, monitor the planning, organizing6, and
delegation of work and ensure monitoring and evaluation is carried out in all
areas of the branch.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M. Mokonyama Tel No: (012) 309 3172
NOTE : Candidates must quote name of the post for the above-mentioned position on
the subject line when applying i.e. “Deputy Director-General: Corporate
Services”
POST 29/32 : CHIEF AUDIT EXECUTIVE REF NO: DOT/HRM/2025/13
Branch: Office of the Director General
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), of which 30% can be
structured according to individual’s needs.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate NQF level 7 qualification as recognised by SAQA in Internal
Auditing/ Accounting/ Risk Management with 6 years’ experience in the Internal
Auditing and Fraud Investigations of which 5 years must be at a senior
management level. A Certification as a Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) will be
an added advantage. Membership of the Institute of Internal Auditors South
31
Africa (IIASA)/ Association for Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE) will be an
added advantage. Certificate of Successful completion of the National School
of Government’s Senior Management Service Pre-Entry Programme.
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge and understanding of internal Audit
Management concepts, frameworks and methodologies, knowledge of Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations and Public Service
Regulatory Framework on Internal Auditing, knowledge of the Public Service
Anti-Corruption Strategy and measures, knowledge of the National Treasury
Risk Management Framework, knowledge and understanding of Risk Maturity
Model, knowledge and understanding of Risk management policies,
procedures, principles and practice, compilation of management reports;
Communication; Financial Management; Strategic Capability & leadership;
People Management & Empowerment; Project/Programme Management;
Training.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of internal, performance and IT audit services, provide
leadership and direction to the internal Audit department and manage all
internal audit activities, set the strategy for Internal Audit in alignment with the
department’s priorities and strategy, develop a 3-year rolling Internal Audit Plan
and Internal Audit Strategy for the department, establish auditing policies,
programmes and procedures in line with ||A standards which enables Internal
Audit to efficiently accomplish complete and factual reviews, provide leadership
in the development of and effective implementation of audit plans, procedures
and programs to evaluate the adequacy of the department’s internal control
environment in line with Risk Based Internal Audit Plan, support the
accomplishment of strategic objectives and help ensure that established
financial, operational and compliance practices, and the related controls, are
designed and operating effectively, facilitate the monitoring of quality by both
continuous and periodic, internal and external quality assurance initiatives and
addresses performance gaps through monitored action plans, develop and
maintain strong relationships and communications with the Audit Committee
and other stakeholders to ensure concerns are addressed and expectations
met, develop and maintain strong working relationship with external auditors to
ensure effectiveness of service delivery and appropriate resolution of
findings/issues identified, develop institutional think-tanks pertaining to internal
audit with regard to Financial Regularity, Performance, IT, Compliance, and
operational audits to achieve the audit objectives, provide technical
guidance/assurance on search and rescue inspections on periodical and
rotational basis. Manage departmental investigations and forensics, lead and
coordinate actions to manage fraud and corruption risks in the department,
ensure coordination with relevant stakeholders including SAPS and regulators
to ensure compliance with local statutes, provide support in building capacity
for fraud risk management, fraud prevention and forensic investigations, liaise
with the AGSA and other assurance providers as part of combined assurance
initiatives, manage all aspects of departmental investigations and forensics.
Create and foster an anti-fraud and anti-corruption culture/environment in the
department. Participate in project teams to achieve a multi-disciplinary
approach to meet set objectives of the department, manage the planning and
or implementation of projects, develop the definition of the project missions,
goals, tasks and resources requirements, develop methods to monitor projects
or area progress and provide corrective solutions if necessary, manage
projects resources, project budget and resource allocation, work cross-
functionally to solve problems and implement changes, oversee project
progress reporting. Manage the resources of the Chief Directorate, ensure
compliance with all administrative requirements, regulations, rules and
instructions pertaining to the chief directorate, establish and maintain
governance and administrative system’s continuity within the work of the
branch, ensure the submission of the strategic plan and annual report, prepare
and submit implementation plans, monitor quality control of work, ensure the
compilation of the annual report and strategic plan of the chief directorate,
monitor the planning, organising and delegation of work, ensure compliance to
the performance management system, ensure monitoring & evaluation is
carried out in all areas of the chief directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Mokonyama Tel No: (012) 309 3172
NOTE : Candidates must quote name of the post for the above-mentioned position on
the subject line when applying i.e., “Chief Audit Executive: Office of the Director
General”
32
OTHER POSTS
POST 29/33 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: DOT/ HRM/2025/14
Branch: Corporate Service
Chief Directorate: Human Resource Management and Development
Director: Human Resource Management and Administration
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Recognised NQF level 6/7 in Labour Relations/ Employee Relations and/or
Law coupled with five (5) years of experience of which three (3) years must be
at Assistant Director level dealing with individual Labour Law matters
representing employer at Disciplinary hearings, Conciliations & Arbitrations.
Knowledge and Skills: government policies and procedures applicable to
labour relations. Knowledge and understanding of Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Computer literacy. Thorough understanding of
applicable prescripts. Project management. Negotiation. Knowledge of Public
Service Collective Agreements.
DUTIES : Manage and advice on all internal labour relations matters of the department.
Develop departmental strategies and systems relating to dispute resolution
mechanisms including policies, procedures and processes. Create and
manage a case management database on all Labour-related matters. Manage
grievances in accordance with the prescribed procedures. Finalise all
grievances and complaints received from employees in the department.
Promote sound employee relations processes including effective management
of dispute settlement grievances and discipline. Facilitate collective Bargaining
in the Departmental Bargaining Council. Provide support in terms of
representing the department at the department Bargaining Chamber (DBC).
Develop and implement departmental labour relations policies and
programmes. Facilitate and assist internal stakeholders with the development
and implementation of employee relations strategies, operational policies that
comply with prescribed Labour Relations statutes. Provide expert labour
relations advice to managers and employees. Conduct labour relations
workshops in the department. Maintain awareness of and communicate to the
department any relevant changes in all labour legislations. Coordinate and
facilitate capacity building and advocacy relating to Labour Relations matters
in the department. Manage the sub-directorate. Create an environment that
provides for uninterrupted service delivery from the section. Evaluate the
performance of staff against the best practices for the provision of the support
in respect of the section and identity of the areas where training is required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Phutha Mohlala Tel No: (012) 309 3542
NOTE : Candidates must quote the name of the post as follows; “DD Labour Relations”
on the subject line when applying using an Email. Department of Transport is
an equal opportunity employer and this post will be filled in accordance with
employment equity targets of the department.
POST 29/34 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: DOT/
HRM/2025/15
Branch: Corporate Service
Chief Directorate: Human Resource Management and Development
Director: Human Resource Management and Administration
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Recognised NQF level 6/7 in Labour Relations/ Employee Relations and/or
Law coupled with five (5) years of experience dealing with individual Labour
Law matters representing the employer at Disciplinary hearings, Conciliations
& Arbitrations. Three (3) years Supervisory experience. Basic knowledge of
PERSAL and PERSAL introduction Certificate will be an added advantage.
Knowledge and Skills: government policies and procedures applicable to
labour relations. Knowledge and understanding of Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Computer literacy. Thorough understanding of
applicable prescripts. Project management. Negotiation. Knowledge of Public
Service Collective Agreements.
DUTIES : Manage and advice on all internal labour relations matters of the department.
Assist with the creation of case management database on all Labour-related
matters. Ensure the implementation and compliance with Collective
33
agreements, policies and legislations. Manage grievances in accordance with
the prescribed procedures. Assist in the finalisation of all grievances and
complaints received from employees in the department timeously and within
the prescribed timeframes. Facilitate the appointment of Investigation Officers
to investigate grievances. Facilitate collective Bargaining in the Departmental
Bargaining Council and represent the department at the department
Bargaining Chamber (DBC). Develop and implement departmental labour
relations policies and programmes. Facilitate and assist internal stakeholders
with the development and implementation of employee relations strategies,
operational policies that comply with prescribed Labour Relations statutes.
Provide expert labour relations advice to managers and employees. Conduct
labour relations workshops in the department. Maintain awareness and
communicate to the department any relevant changes in all labour legislations.
Coordinate and facilitate capacity building and advocacy relating to Labour
Relations matters in the department. Manage the sub-directorate. Create an
environment that provides for uninterrupted service delivery from the section.
Evaluate the performance of staff against the best practices for the provision
of the support in respect of the section and identity of the areas where training
is required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Phutha Mohlala Tel No: (012) 309 3542
NOTE : Candidates must quote the name of the post as follows; “ASD Labour
Relations” on the subject line when applying using an Email. Department of
Transport is an equal opportunity employer and this post will be filled in
accordance with employment equity targets of the department
34
ANNEXURE K
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC, SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, TOURISM AND ENVIRONMENTAL
AFFAIRS
Free State Provincial Government is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer. We intend to
promote representativity (race, gender, and disability) in the province through the filling of these posts,
and candidates whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote representativity will receive
preference.
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the reference number, applications must be forwarded to the Head of
Department: Economic, Small Business Development, Tourism, and
Environmental Affairs, Private Bag X20801, Bloemfontein, 9300, or delivered
by Hand at the Ground Floor Security Entrance, 113 St Andrews Building, St
Andrew Street, Bloemfontein.
FOR ATTENTION : Mesdames. M Parkies/ K Majafa/N. Ramaebebe/ Mr. T. Chaka
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : Directions to applicants: Applications must be submitted on a new Z.83 form
(applications submitted on the old Z83 forms will not be considered), obtainable
from any Public Service Department or on the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za-
vacancies and must be accompanied by a recently updated comprehensive
CV only (separate application for every vacancy). Applicants are requested to
complete the Z83 form properly and in full. Applications received after the
closing date and those that do not comply with these instructions will not be
considered. The onus is on the applicants to ensure that their applications are
posted or hand delivered timeously. Candidates who possess foreign
qualifications and/or short course certificates must take it upon themselves to
have their qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA), and proof of the level of their qualifications after evaluation will be
required when shortlisted. No e-mailed or faxed applications will be considered.
Applicants are respectfully informed that if no notification of appointment is
received within 4 months of the closing date, they must accept that their
applications were unsuccessful. Please take note that communication will only
be limited to short-listed candidates. The Department reserves the right not to
appoint. Note: Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms of the Directive
on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training Days & Minimum
Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April 2015, a
requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is successful
completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as endorsed by
the National School of Government (NSG). The course is available at the NSG
under the name certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be
obtained by following the below link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entryprogramme/. The successful candidate will be required to
provide proof of completion of the NSG Public Service Senior Management
Leadership Programme Certificate for entry into the SMS. Furthermore, all
shortlisted candidates including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an
integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessments. All short-listed candidates will be
subjected to screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for
employment, as well as qualification verification. Successful candidate will be
expected to enter into a performance agreement. Successful candidates will
be appointed on a probation period of 12 months. Following the interview and
the technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates who
were shortlisted for SMS posts to attend a generic managerial competency
assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of
competency-based assessments. Note: Only shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified copies of their qualifications. Emailed applications
should not exceed 4 MB. Failure to do so will result in your application being
disqualified.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 29/35 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: INTEGRATED ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
DESTEA 05/08/25
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (an all-inclusive salary package). The total
package includes a 70% basic salary, a state contribution to the Government
35
Employee Pension Fund, and a flexible portion that may be structured in terms
of the applicable guidelines.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree as recognised by SAQA (NQF 7) in
Economics or related field. 5 years of experience at a senior managerial level.
7 years or more experience in the economic development environment.
Knowledge of the relevant prescripts and legal framework in the Public Service.
Computer literacy. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Support and promote industrial and sectoral development through
collaboration with industrial stakeholders. Facilitate the development of
industries in the Free State in collaboration with the Free State Development
Corporation and the Maluti a Phofung Special Economic Zone (MAP-SEZ).
Ensure coordination of sector-specific development funding. Facilitate the
implementation of strategies and projects that improve the competitiveness of
identified priority sectors in the Free State provincial plans. Management of
resources of the Chief Directorate, i.e., human, asset, and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. M. Nokwequ at (076) 940 6670
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment1@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying.
POST 29/36 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DESTEA
06/08/25
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (an all-inclusive salary package). The total
package includes a 70 % basic salary, a state contribution to the Government
Employee Pension Fund, and a flexible portion that may be structured in terms
of the applicable guidelines.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree as recognised by SAQA (NQF 7) in
Economics / Business Administration or related field. 5 years of experience at
a senior managerial level. 7 years or more experience in the economic
development environment. Knowledge of the relevant prescripts and legal
framework in the Public Service. Computer literacy. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage Service Centers. Promote and coordinate enterprise development and
support within the province. Facilitate the route and access to markets for
micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSME) and cooperatives. Provide
oversight on ensuring access to enterprise and supplier development
programmes in collaboration with private sector partners. Creation of an
enabling environment for micro, small, and medium enterprises to access
business development support services. Develop and implement policies that
would ensure that micro, small, and medium enterprises benefit from state
procurement. Ensure the development of the Strategic Plan and APP of the
Chief Directorate. Management of resources of the Chief Directorate, i.e.,
human, asset, and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. M. Nokwequ at (076) 940 6670
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment1@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying.
POST 29/37 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CORPORATE AFFAIRS REF NO: DESTEA 07/08/25
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (an all-inclusive salary package). The total
package includes a 70% basic salary, a state contribution to the Government
Employee Pension Fund, and a flexible portion that may be structured in terms
of the applicable guidelines.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s degree as recognised by SAQA (NQF 7) in
Corporate Communication/ Communication Sciences/ Information Technology
or related field. 5 years of experience at a senior managerial level. 7 years or
more experience in Communication and/ Information Technology environment.
Strong business orientation with broad experience in managing information
management and information technology, communication, legal services and
proficiency with communications technologies and understanding of
copywriting, graphic design, layout and publishing. Knowledge of Government
processes and relevant legislation. Computer literacy. A valid driver’s license.
36
DUTIES : Develop and manage effective corporate communication, marketing and public
relations programmes in the department. Provide legal opinion and advice to
the department on legal matters. Manage information technology, systems and
ensue institutional memory (knowledge management) in the department.
Provide strategic direction for the Chief Directorate and also ensuring the
development of the Annual Performance Plan and report thereof. Management
of resources of the Chief Directorate, i.e., human, asset, and financial
resources.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. M. Nokwequ at (076) 940 6670
APPLICATION : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment1@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying.
POST 29/38 : DIRECTOR: BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT & CONSERVATION REF NO:
DESTEA 08/08/25
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive salary package). The total
package includes 70% basic salary, a state contribution to the Government
Employee Pension Fund, and a flexible portion that may be structured in terms
of the applicable guidelines.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree as recognised by SAQA (NQF 7) in Natural
Sciences with majors in Botany/ Zoology or related field. Postgraduate
Qualification in Botany or Zoology will be an added advantage. 5 years of
experience at a middle/senior managerial level. 7 years or more experience in
Biodiversity planning and research. Good knowledge of appropriate legislation
governing Biodiversity and Protected Areas at the National, Provincial, and
Local levels. Knowledge of Project Management will be an added advantage
for the candidate to be selected. Computer literacy. A valid driver’s license. The
following will be an add advantage: Knowledge of Project Management will be
an added advantage.
DUTIES : Lead a team that provides Scientific Support to Protected Areas managed by
the department. Manage a team of Biodiversity Experts employed by the
department. Represent the Department in National and International Scientific
Bodies. Support the Biodiversity Permit Office. Research Priority Biodiversity
Projects. Management of resources of the Directorate, i.e. human, asset, and
financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. M. Nokwequ at (076) 940 6670
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment1@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying.
POST 29/39 : DIRECTOR: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: DESTEA
09/08/25
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive salary package). The total
package includes 70% basic salary, a state contribution to the Government
Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion that may be structured in terms of
the applicable guidelines.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree as recognised by SAQA (NQF 7) in Natural
Science, Environmental Science, Environmental Management or related field.
5 years of experience at a middle/senior managerial level. A good knowledge
of appropriate legislation governing Waste Management and pollution control,
Environmental Impact Assessments, Environmental Compliance and
Enforcement activities at National, Provincial and Local level. Computer
literacy and a valid driver’s license. Registration with EAPASA as a Registered
EAP. Minimum of 5 years experience dealing with Environmental Impact
Assessments. The following will be an add advantage: Knowledge of Project
Management will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Ensure effective environmental impact management. Ensure compliance with
environmental legislation. Prevent environmental degradation by ensuring
implementation of, amongst others air quality and waste management
legislation and policies. Prevent pollution and ensure waste management
policies and legislation are implemented. Management of resource of the
Directorate, i.e., human, asset and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. NM Nkoe at 082 040 4195
37
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment1@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying.
POST 29/40 : DIRECTOR: REGULATORY SYSTEMS AND STAKEHOLDER
MANAGEMENT REF NO: DESTEA 10/08/25
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive salary package). The total
package includes 70% basic salary, a state contribution to the Government
Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion that may be structured in terms of
the applicable guidelines.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree as recognised by SAQA (NQF 7) in
Economics or Business Management 5 years of experience at a middle/senior
managerial level. 7 years experience with a role focus on coordination of sector
stakeholders and in-depth understanding of the business regulatory
management environment. Experience in managing catalytic projects,
including developing project plans, allocating resources, and monitoring
progress. Understanding of investment promotion and facilitation.
Understanding of financial implications related to regulatory compliance and
stakeholder management. Computer literacy. A valid driver’s license. The
following will be an add advantage: Good knowledge of appropriate legislation
governing Sector Management. Knowledge of Project Management will be an
added advantage.
DUTIES : Provide support to fast track and reduce government red tape for the effective
implementation of investment project plans. Cultivate and strengthen lasting
stakeholder relations for both the department and the province. Facilitate and
promote Investment Value Chain in relation to investment projects. Oversee
implementation of private sector catalytic projects in the province. Implement
departmental programmes arising from Executive Council Resolutions, Budget
Bote Injunctions meetings with institutions such as the Department of Trade,
Industry and Competition (the dtic) and relevant Public Entities. Contribute to
the development of Strategic documents for the Department. Manage resource
of the Directorate, i.e., human, asset and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. M. Nokwequ at (076) 940 6670
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment1@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying.
OTHER POSTS
POST 29/41 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE PROVISIONING REF NO:
DESTEA 11/08/25
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive salary package). The total
package includes 75% or 70% basic salary, a state contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund, and a flexible portion that may be
structured in terms of the applicable guidelines.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree as recognised by SAQA in Human Resource
Management/ Public Management or related field. 7 years and more
experience in Human Resource Management of which 5 years should be at
the junior management level. Excellent knowledge of all public service statutory
and regulatory requirements w.r.t Human Resource Management. Good
knowledge of recruitment, PERSAL, and HR Administration. Ability to interpret
and apply Acts, Regulations and Directives and Policies. Experience in
developing and executing comprehensive HR Policies. Good communication
skills and strong presentation skills. Ability to manage HR data and provide
rigorous analysis of that data. Experience in planning, organizing, and
monitoring a large volume of HR activities and managing a team with a high-
volume workload. Computer literacy. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Develop, implement, and maintain Human Resource Provisioning
(Recruitment and Selection, transfers, promotions, terminations, and staff
establishment) policies and strategies. Quality assurance of all documents,
statistics, and PERSAL transactions before sign-off. Authorise and approve all
PERSAL transactions. Ensure that PERSAL systems and processes are in
place to enable HR support on employee benefits. Effective management of
38
compensation framework and records management. Manage the leave
reconciliation every quarter (leave in general), housing, injury on duty, and
resettlement. Oversee the PILIR administration process. Oversee Human
Resource Records Management System in line with the National Archives Act
(HR registry and messenger services). Ensure the effective implementation
and maintenance of the file plan process. Manage the preparation and
provision of responses to audit queries related to HR document management.
Manage the process of recruitment and selection. Provide expert advice to the
panel during the interviews. Ensure that the panel approval is obtained for the
interview process. Manage the process of employment screening in terms of
verification of qualifications, criminal records, etc. Oversee the coordination of
competency assessments for Senior Managers. Oversee the submission of
/recommended candidates are submitted to the relevant authority in line with
the approved delegations of authority. Monitor the reference checks for
approved candidates relating to appointments. Monitor the reference checks
or approved candidates relating to appointments. Develop and monitor the
system of Employee Exit (Termination) within the Department. Monitor the
implementation of an effective system of receiving, and recording processing
of Employee Exit. Prepare Employee Exit reports. Monitor the communication
of revised national resolutions and directives regulating the interpretations and
implementation of Employee Exit. Prepare and respond to questions and audit
queries on the administration of Employee Exit. Manage the Operational Plan
of the Unit. Management of resources of the Sub-directorate, i.e., human,
asset, and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. MP Tlale at (082) 379 3412
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment1@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying.
POST 29/42 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DESTEA
12/08/25
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive salary package). The total
package includes 75% or 70% basic salary, a state contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund, and a flexible portion that may be
structured in terms of the applicable guidelines
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree as recognised by SAQA in Economics/
Finance/ Business Administration or Public Management with majors in Public
Finance/ Public Sector Economics. 5 years or more experience in Economic
Development with focus on Industrialization development, special economic
zones and Industrial Parks of which 3 years should be at the junior
management level. Knowledge of relevant legislation and regulations.
Computer literacy. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Support long-term industrial and economic development. Develop new special
economic zones/industrial regions/parks and strengths existing ones. Create
an appropriate environment for foreign direct and domestic investment. Ensure
the formulation of policies and a clear framework for the development,
operation, and management of SEZ. Build-up and downstream linkages in
strategic value chains. Manage the resources of the sub-directorate which
includes the budget personnel and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Nqgeza at (076) 884 9556
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment1@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying.
POST 29/43 : RESERVE MANAGERS: TUSSEN DIE RIVIERE NATURE RESERVE
CALEDON NATURE RESERVE MARIA MOROKA NATURE RESERVE
SALARY : R612 480 per annum, (OSD). Appropriate salary will be determined by the
relevant experience according to the regulatory framework based on OSD.
CENTRE : Tussen Die Riviere NR, Ref No: DESTEA 13/08/25
Caledon NR, Ref No: DESTEA 14/08/25
Maria Moroka NR, Ref No: DESTEA 15/08/25
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree as recognised by SAQA in Conservation /
Wildlife / Environmental Management/ Environmental Sciences. A minimum 5
years’ experience in Nature Conservation. Knowledge of relevant legislation,
39
such as the National Environmental Management: Biodiversity Act, 2004
(NEMBA) and other relevant government policies regulating biodiversity
conservation, including the sustainable use of natural resources and protected
species. Computer literacy. Computer literacy. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage the infrastructure to ensure the functional utilization, maintenance and
development of the Protected Areas. Preserve the biodiversity of the Reserve
to ensure the continued livelihood thereof. Manage risks and security aspects
on the Reserve. Manage internal and external relationship with all interested
and affected stakeholders to the Reserve. Perform and manage administrative
and related functions. Manage resource of the Reserve, i.e., human, asset and
financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. K. Mocwaledi at (060) 968 3186
NOTE : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment2@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying
POST 29/44 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER CONTROL GRADE A: CLIMATE CHANGE
REF NO: DESTEA 16/08/25
SALARY : R612 480 – R700 620 per annum, (OSD). Appropriate salary will be determined
according to the regulatory framework based on OSD.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree as recognised by SAQA in Natural or
Environmental Science/ Environmental Management/ Geography/ Climate
Change/ Renewable Energy Studies. A minimum 5 years post-qualification
experience in Climate Change environment or related field. Knowledge of
relevant government regulations and Environmental legislation, Frameworks,
Policies and Strategies, including the Climate Change Act. Knowledge of Policy
development processes and implementation. Well-developed communication
and reporting skills; planning and coordination skills; good interpersonal
relations. Computer literacy. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide support on development and implementation of climate change related
policies, strategies and plans. Implement climate change response
programmes. Update, monitor, and report on climate change action
programmes. Provide support to municipal and sector departments on their
climate change response programmes. Coordinate climate change forum
sessions, follow-up on stakeholder commitments and climate response action
in the province. Facilitate development of Just transition plans and energy
projects with various stakeholders. Liaise and form partnerships with public and
private sectors to address climate change impacts. Ensure capacity building,
training, and awareness of climate change at municipal and community levels.
Manage the resources of the Division, i.e. human, asset, and financial
resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. NM Nkoe at (082) 040 4195
NOTE : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment2@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying
POST 29/45 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SERVICE CENTRES AND LED (MANGAUNG)
REF NO: DESTEA 17/08/25
SALARY : R468 459 per annum. (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mangaung
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree as recognised by SAQA in Economics/
Business Economics/ Business Administration. A minimum 5 experience within
small enterprise development sector. Computer literacy. A valid driver’s license.
The following will be an add advantage: Good understanding and knowledge
of the prescripts governing the enterprise development sector. The successful
candidate to demonstrate the following competencies/skills; customer oriented,
project Management, financial and business acumen, team player and have
good interpersonal skills, attention to detail.
DUTIES : Coordinate and facilitate the implementation of small business support
initiatives/project plans; provide inputs into the development of the
implementation plan and implement it, coordinate the resources for the
implementation of small business initiatives/project, monitor and evaluate the
progress of the initiatives/projects, provide the feedback report, conduct
research and site visits. Support appropriate environment for Micro, Small, and
40
Medium Enterprises (MSME) and Cooperatives; provide advice on appropriate
business models, provide advice on suitable operational models, facilitate
retention and expansion of existing small enterprises through access to
funding, provide the feedback reports/ monitoring reports on the developments
and performance of the enterprises after intervention. Provide inputs in the
development of departmental small business support programme policies,
review departmental small business support programme policies, gather
information relevant to the policy development, link MSME with relevant
stakeholders according to the process flow and handover to Sector and
Industrial Development. Manage the resources of the Centre, i.e. human, asset
and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Sehularo at (082) 202 4376
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment2@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying
POST 29/46 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SERVICE CENTRES AND LED (XHARIEP) REF
NO: DESTEA 18/08/25
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Xhariep
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree as recognised by SAQA in Economics/
Business Economics/ Business Administration. A minimum 5 experience within
small enterprise development sector. Computer literacy. A valid driver’s license.
The following will be an add advantage: Good understanding and knowledge
of the prescripts governing the enterprise development sector. The successful
candidate to demonstrate the following competencies/skills; customer oriented,
project Management, financial and business acumen, team player and have
good interpersonal skills, attention to detail.
DUTIES : Coordinate and facilitate the implementation of small business support
initiatives/project plans; provide inputs into the development of the
implementation plan and implement it, coordinate the resources for the
implementation of small business initiatives/project, monitor and evaluate the
progress of the initiatives/projects, provide the feedback report, conduct
research and site visits. Support appropriate environment for Micro, Small, and
Medium Enterprises (MSME) and Cooperatives; provide advice on appropriate
business models, provide advice on suitable operational models, facilitate
retention and expansion of existing small enterprises through access to
funding, provide the feedback reports/ monitoring reports on the developments
and performance of the enterprises after intervention. Provide inputs in the
development of departmental small business support programme policies,
review departmental small business support programme policies, gather
information relevant to the policy development, link MSME with relevant
stakeholders according to the process flow and handover to Sector and
Industrial Development. Manage the resources of the Centre, i.e. human, asset
and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Sehularo at (082) 202 4376
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment2@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying
POST 29/47 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING REF NO: DESTEA
19/08/25
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree as recognised by SAQA in Public
Management or related field. 3 – 5 years’ experience in strategic planning.
Knowledge of the relevant prescripts and legal framework in the Public Service.
Computer literacy. Project Management a Supervision of officials and other
resources within the division. and management information system
administration experience. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Develop, maintain and/or facilitate the successful implementation of the
Department’s strategic planning policy and/or implementation strategy.
Facilitate strategic planning workshops in the Department towards the
development and/or review of the Department’s 5-Year Strategic Plan, 3-Year
Annual Performance Plan and Annual Operational Plans in line with the
41
provisions of Treasury Regulations and/or national and/or provincial formats.
Improve the capacity of the Department on matters related to strategic and
operational planning. Facilitate the implementation of the Departmental
Strategic Plan and Annual Performance Plan. Represent the Department in
national and/or provincial meetings on matters related to strategic and
operational planning.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Hagen at (071) 624 65 31
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment2@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying
POST 29/48 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ICT SUPPORT REF NO: DESTEA 20/08/25
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree as recognised by SAQA in Information
Technology/ Computer Science/ Information Technology Management and
Computer Engineering/ Informatics/ Business Applications. A minimum 5 years’
experience within ICT environment. Knowledge of government micro policies
relating to ICT. Computer literacy. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Identify the business needs, costs and benefits of implementing a computing
solutions. Diverse and document business requirements based on the clients’
s anticipated requirements. Develop a quality management programme to
identify whether the client’s specification are met. Provide inputs on the
development of the IT Strategy and business plan. Provide project
management service which include the management of service providers.
Prepare and provide systems documentation (user manuals for the training)
and provide post-delivery support to the users. Manage the resources of the
division, i.e. human, asset and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M. Mphapang at (072)-274 1734
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment2@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying.
POST 29/49 : RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTITIONER REF NO: DESTEA 21/08/25
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree in Risk Management / Internal Audit or
related field. 3 – 5 years’ experience in Risk Management processes.
Computer literacy. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Assist with the development and implementation of the following on the
departmental risk management: Risk Management Strategy, Management
Policy and Plan. Assist with the development of Risk Management processes
to ensure compliance to the Risk Management Framework. Maintain and
update risk registers to determine the effectiveness of progress concerning
Risk Management in the department. Assist with the promotion of a risk
management culture and capacity in the department. Assist with the review of
the implementation of Risk Management processes to ensure compliance in
the department. Coordinate Risk Committee meetings and drafting quarterly
Risk Committee reports. Implement Risk Management processes to ensure
compliance to the Risk Management Plan.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Mahlaba at (076) 093 1822
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment2@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying.
POST 29/50 : PLANNING ADVISOR: ECONOMIC STRATEGIC PLANNING REF NO:
DESTEA 22/08/25
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree as recognised by SAQA in Economics/
Business Economics. A minimum 5 years’ experience within Economic
Planning environment. Computer literacy. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Align economic policies to the Provincial priorities; Align the Local Economic
Development Strategies with the Free State Growth and Development Strategy
42
(FSGDS), Ensure implementation of the Free State Economic Reconstruction
and Recovery Plan at local municipalities. Ensure that interventions
programmes are adaptive to economic changes; facilitate capacity building
interventions through District and Provincial Local (LED) Forums, provide
support to municipalities on developing Ease of Doing business plans to local
municipalities. Develop and maintain intersectoral liaison strategies; facilitate
LED strategy reviews at local municipalities, Provide guidance to municipalities
on Integrated Development Plans (IDPs). Contribute to the development of the
policies; manage allocated expenditure in line with the budget, manage
allocated assets and resources in line with the policies. Manage the resources
of the Division, i.e. human, asset and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T. Lekutle at (071) 604 9048
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment2@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying
POST 29/51 : BIODIVERSITY OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A: BIODIVERSITY
COMPLIANCE AND MONITORING (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R343 842 per annum, (OSD). Appropriate salary will be determined according
to the regulatory framework based on OSD.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Ref No: DESTEA 23/08/25
Thabo-Mofutsanyana Ref No: DESTEA 24/08/25
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s degree/ National Diploma as recognised by SAQA
in Conservation/ Wildlife/ Environmental Management/ Environmental
Sciences/ Law. Knowledge of relevant legislation, such as the National
Environmental Management: Biodiversity Act, 2004 (NEMBA) and other
relevant government policies regulating biodiversity conservation, including the
sustainable use of natural resources and protected species. Computer literacy.
A valid driver’s license. The following will be an add advantage: Experience in
investigations.
DUTIES : Render proactive Compliance Monitoring which would include the following;
verify adherence to environmental requirements, review of conditions
contained in the permit, conduct site inspections, prepare report/submission of
finding and determine further actions required. Conduct proactive Sector
Compliance Inspections. Provide inputs on compliance checklists,
policies/guidelines/frameworks and operational manuals. Render reactive
Compliance Monitoring which would include the following: attend to reactive
inspections (when illegal activity/breach of conditions have been identified),
respond to complaints and investigate incidents, consult with relevant
environmental experts and legal representatives of transgressors, gather
information, analyse and make recommendations. Conduct Compliance
Enforcement operations which would include the following: (prosecutions)
administrative enforcement; assist with the drafting of pre-directives,
compliance notices and guilt fines, civil and / criminal enforcement; apply for
court interdict (in consultation with legal services / State Attorney), compile a
docket and refer the matter to the Department of Public Prosecutions, drafting
of affidavit, provide evidence in court when required, advocate cooperative
governance in dealing with enforcement issues (SAPS, NPA, DWAF,
Municipalities etc), provide inputs on comments on appeal/submissions
received in terms of compliance notices. Participate in Compliance Promotion
/ Awareness which would include the following: Promoting environmental rights
and justice (participation in sector specific forums), liaison with stakeholders,
NGO’s and civil society, review of information and data, provide
information/support to the Advisory component in conducting compliance
awareness workshops, facilitate in-house training. Perform all administrative
and related functions which would include the following: contribute to the
compilation of reports as required, control assets allocated to projects, provide
inputs into manuals and guidelines and comply with the Public Service
prescripts. Manage resource of the Directorate, i.e. asset and financial
resource.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L. Garekoe at (082) 656 1917
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment3@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying.
NOTE : NB: The successful candidate will be expected to work long hours and travel
extensively.
43
POST 29/52 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A: WASTE
MANAGEMENT REF NO: DESTEA 25/08/25
SALARY : R343 842 per annum, (OSD). Appropriate salary will be determined according
to the regulatory framework based on OSD.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelors’ Degree in Natural/ Physical Science/ Environmental
Management or related field. Minimum of 1 year experience within the waste
management and pollution control environment. Knowledge of NEM:WA and
environmental legislation. Good communication and report writing skills are
essential. Computer literacy. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Contribute towards the implementation of environmental policies, legislation,
protocols, regulations and guidelines. Ensure the responsible management of
waste in the province. Promote, facilitate and implement strategies for cleaner
production technology. Administer, implement and enforce statutory obligations
with regards to waste, storage, treatment and disposal facility permitting.
Preform all administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. NM Nkoe at (082) 040 4195
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment3@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying.
NOTE : NB: The successful candidate will be expected to work long hours and travel
extensively.
POST 29/53 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GR A: COMPLIANCE
MONITORING REF NO: DESTEA 26/08/25 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R343 842 per annum, (OSD). Appropriate salary will be determined according
to the regulatory framework based on OSD.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelors’ Degree as recognised by SAQA in Environmental
Science/ Management or Geography or related field. Minimum 1 year
experience in environmental management. Knowledge of relevant government
regulations. Computer literacy. A valid driver’s license. Experience in handling
a Sec 24G application, an EIA application and registered at least as a EAP
Candidate with EAPASA will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Plan, coordinate, and render compliance monitoring which would include
planning for inspection and audits, ensuring the implementation of monitoring
activities and verifications of reports, and determining further actions to be
taken. Participate and assist in compliance and enforcement activities which
may include, amongst others, undertaking investigations of complaints and/or
transgressions, a compilation of administrative notices and directives, etc.
Assist in determining further actions to be taken regarding administrative/
criminal prosecution; determine what type of enforcement measures to be
applied - administrative/ civil/ criminal; advocate cooperative governance in
dealing with enforcement issues (National Prosecuting Authority [NPA], South
African Police Services (SAPS), Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS),
Municipalities, etc.) and participate in law enforcement operations, subject to
Environmental Management Inspector (EMI) designation. Plan and participate
in compliance promotion/ awareness/ workshops which amongst others would
include the promotion of environmental rights and justice etc. Render support
to the Environmental Education and Awareness component in conducting
compliance awareness workshops, and the Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) component at the Environmental Management Committee for decision-
making. Attend to all assigned emergency cases reported to the Department
within legislated time frames.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Nkoe at (082) 974 3839
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment3@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying.
NOTE : NB: The successful candidate will be expected to work long hours and travel
extensively
44
POST 29/54 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A: ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA) REF NO: DESTEA 27/08/25
SALARY : R343 842 per annum, (OSD). Appropriate salary will be determined according
to the regulatory framework based on OSD.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelors’ Degree as recognised by SAQA in Natural/ Physical
Science/ Environmental Science/Management or related field. Minimum 1
years’ experience in environmental management good communication and
report writing skills are essential. Computer literacy. A valid driver’s license.
The following will be an add advantage: At least having handled a minimum of
2 EIA applications. Registered at least as a EAP Candidate with EAPASA.
DUTIES : Handle EIA application(s). Provide technical and procedural advice to
stakeholders and applicants. Attend Environmental Management Committee
(EMC) meetings as required for project presentations and technical advice.
Develop environmental advice notes to relevant stakeholders as and when
required. Conduct site inspections, draft and recommend environmental
authorization for submission and decision-making by the relevant delegated
authority, etc. Provide technical/procedural advice which would include gather/
compile/disseminate relevant information on State of the Environment
reporting, provide information to internal clients to enable effective and efficient
cross-functioning of integrated environmental management, etc. Perform all
administrative and procedure required for the effective and efficient operation
Impact Assessment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. NM Nkoe at (082)040 4195
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment3@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying.
POST 29/55 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A: EDUCATION AND
AWARENESS: FEZILE DABI REF NO: DESTEA 28/08/25
SALARY : R343 842 per annum, (OSD). Appropriate salary will be determined according
to the regulatory framework based on OSD.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s degree as recognised by SAQA in Environmental
Management or Natural Science or related field. Computer literacy. A valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : Promotion of Environmental Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) by
amongst others Implementing environmental education programs to assist with
the integration of Environmental Education in formal education structures
(schools, SETA, ABET, higher education etc). Identify and implement
environmental capacity building programs for the general public and relevant
stakeholders (informal). Develop and implement community based natural
resource management and environmental action projects for sustainable
development. To initiate, implement and monitor Environmental school
Programs & projects and where the programs or initiatives are on-going,
provide the technical support. Promote and implement community
environmental awareness and Education programs, liaise with both external
and internal stakeholders and build sectoral/professional network in your area
of responsibility. Perform all administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. NM Nkoe at (082)040 4195
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment3@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying.
POST 29/56 : OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY PRACTITIONER REF NO: DESTEA
29/08/25
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s degree/ Diploma as recognised by SAQA in
Occupational Health and Safety Occupational Hygiene/ Safety Management/
Environmental Health. SAMTRAC Certificate is essential. Atleast two years’
experience in dealing with SHERQ Management under employee Health and
Wellness Programme (EHWP) is essential. Registration with EAPA-SA
Professional Association. Knowledge of the EHWP Strategic Framework. In-
45
depth knowledge of OHS legislation and regulations, particularly the
Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHSA) in South Africa. Computer literacy.
A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Develop and ensure implementation of the requirements of the SHERQ
Management Pillar that is inclusive of Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act
85 of 1993 and other OHS related policies. Administer the implementation of
the ISO Assessment Series Certification process, which include OHSAS
18001. Hazard identification and risk management. Incident investigations.
Conduct health and safety inspections and ensure compliance with OHS
standards. Communicate all safety related matters to employees and related
stakeholders. Ensure availability of Occupational Health and Safety equipment
and maintenance thereof. Develop and put in place plans to deal with natural
perils and disaster i.e Contingency Plans, Emergency Procedures, Evacuation
Procedures and Fire Drills. Identify SHE hazards and risks trends within the
department and provide mitigation measures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. B. Molefe at (072)-5942857
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment3@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying.
POST 29/57 : ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER REF NO: DESTEA
30/08/25
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/ Diploma as recognised by SAQA in
Organizational Development Management /Work-Study Management/
Management Services/ HRM. Good management skills (Presentation &
interviewing skills). Computer literacy. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Develop and maintain organogram in line with the strategic plan. Conduct
business process re-engineering investigations. Undertake efficiency
promotion. Evaluate jobs in the Department/ Province. Provide and assist in
the development of job descriptions. Undertake administrative functions
required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T Selemela at (082) 449 4690
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment4@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying.
POST 29/58 : TRADE OFFICER: SERVICE CENTRES AND LED (PHUTHADITJHABA)
REF NO: DESTEA 31/08/25
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Qwaqwa
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree as recognised by SAQA in Economics/
Business Management/ Management. Computer literacy. A valid driver’s
license. The following will be an add advantage: Good understanding and
knowledge of the prescripts governing the enterprise development sector. The
successful candidate to demonstrate the following competencies/skills;
customer oriented, project Management, financial and business acumen, team
player and have good interpersonal skills, attention to detail.
DUTIES : Identify the areas that require intervention for the department and externally.
Provide relevant strategic direction and business advisory services to existing
small and medium enterprises. Provide support to small business with regard
to linking them with markets, financial institutions and business development
service providers (BDS’s for capacity building). Monitor and evaluate the
improvement of business position. Contribute to the development or
amendment of policies that will address the needs and concerns identified
during the company visits. Compile reports on businesses that were linked with
markets, financial institutions and business development service providers and
advice thereof. Business Development Support.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. R. Booi at (082) 454 0131
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment4@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying.
46
POST 29/59 : ASSET MANAGEMENT PRACTITIONER REF NO: DESTEA 32/08/25
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/ Diploma as recognised by SAQA in
Accounting, Finance, Auditing or related field. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Computer Literacy (Microsoft Excel and Microsoft Word).
Good interpersonal skills. A valid driver’s license. The following will be an add
advantage: Knowledge of LOGIS system and relevant legislations governing
Supply Chain Management.
DUTIES : Execute periodic asset spot-checks to update manual and electronic asset
records of the allocated chief-users as per the attached list. Mark all the
Departmental assets with bar-code. Conduct thorough investigations on all
discrepancies identified after reconciliation of physical asset verification.
Accurately complete and capture log 4 to update asset records on LOGIS.
Facilitate that LOG 11 forms before any asset movements are done are duly
completed to update asset records. Open and safely keep asset files according
to approved filing systems. Be actively involved during stocktaking process
especially at chief-users allocated. Ensure that asset records of all allocated
chief-users are always updated. Be fully capacitated to use all relevant LOGIS
selections to update asset records on LOGIS.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J Motsetse at (079) 525 5111
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered or sent via email to
recruitment4@destea.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying.
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SETTLEMENTS
Free State Provincial Government is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer. It is our intention
to promote representatively (race, gender and disability) in the province through the filling of these posts
and candidates whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote representatively will receive
preference.
APPLICATIONS : Head: Human Settlements, Human Resource Management Directorate. P.O
Box 247, Bloemfontein, 9300 OR Applications that are hand delivered must be
brought to the foyer of OR Tambo House where they must be placed in the
appropriately marked box at: Security Ground Floor, OR Tambo House, St.
Andrews Street, Bloemfontein. No applications will be accepted by staff in
offices in the building. OR Candidates may apply via email:
recruit@fshs.gov.za (on Subject of email kindly specify the rank and reference
number of the position you are applying for).
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025 Time: 16H00
NOTE : Directions to applicants: Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed
form Z.83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
http://www.info.gov.za. The Z83 should be completed in a manner that allows
the selection committee to assess the application based on the information on
the form. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualification and other
relevant documents on application but must submit the Z.83 and detailed
Curriculum Vitae. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for a post will be
required to submit certified documents on or prior the interview following
communication. If the certified copies contradict the details on the CV or Z.83
form, the candidate will automatically be disqualified and removed from the
shortlist. Should the applicant possess a foreign qualification, it must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). Failure to submit the requested
documents will result in the application not being considered. Applicants must
indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their application. Should an
applicant wish to apply for more than one post, separate applications must be
submitted for each post applied for. Applications received after closing date and
those that do not comply with these instructions will not be considered.
Candidates requiring additional information regarding the advertised post
should direct their inquiries to the relevant person as indicated in the
advertisement. Note: shortlisted candidates will be subject to criminal record
check, citizenship verification, financial /asset record check, qualification /study
verification and previous employment verification. Faxed or late applications
will NOT be accepted. If you are not contacted within 4 months of the closing
date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. NB: Applicants must be South African citizens residing in the
47
Free State, must be unemployed and must have never participated in a Public
Service Internship programme previously.
INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME FOR 2025/2027
(24 MONTHS)
OTHER POSTS
POST 29/60 : GRADUATE INTERSHIP PROGRAMME: LEGAL SERVICE REF NO: HS
07/2025 (X2 POSTS)
STIPEND : R7 450.62 per month
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum qualification at NQF Level 7 in Law or LLB
ENQUIRIES : Mr. V. Rajuili at (072) 098 9442
POST 29/61 : GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: TECHNICAL SERVICE REF NO:
HS 08/2025 (X3 POSTS)
STIPEND : R7 450.62 per month
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum qualification at NQF Level 6 in Civil Engineering / Construction
Management / Town planning / Technical related
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Z Mayisela at (082) 322 8707
48
ANNEXURE L
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
(This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the Department.)
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be forwarded to: Assistant Director: HRM, Edumbe
Community Health Centre, 463 eDumbe Main Street Location,
Paulpietersburg, 3180, HR office No: 46 or e-mail to
Getrudefikelephi.nkosi@kznhealth.gov.za NB: Sending applications using
courier service/hand delivery is encouraged as we do not have the Post Office
at Paulpietersburg.
CLOSING DATE : 02 September 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed Application for Employment
form (Z83) which must be originally signed dated. The application form (Z83)
must be accompanied by a detailed Curriculum Vitae. All other documents will
be submitted by shortlisted candidates only. The Reference Number must be
indicated in the column (Part A) and provided thereof on the Z83 form. NB:
Failure to comply with the above instructions will disqualify applicants. Persons
with disabilities should feel free to apply for the post. The appointments are
subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State Security Agency (SSA) to
the following checks (security clearance (vetting), criminal clearance, credit
records, and citizenship), verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA,
verification of previous experience from Employers and verification from the
Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC). Applicants are respectfully
informed that, if no notification of appointment received within 3 months after
the closing date, they must accept that their applications were unsuccessful.
Shortlisted applicants who are in possession of a foreign qualification will be
requested to submit an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) before or on the date of interview. Non- RSA
Citizens will be requested to submit Work Permit before or on the day of
interview. All employees in the Public Service that are presently on the same
salary level but on a notch/package above of the advertised posts are free to
apply. Please note that S & T will not be paid to candidates who are invited for
the interviews.
OTHER POST
POST 29/62 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER: SPECIALTY-OUTREACH (ADVANCED
MIDWIFE) REF NO: 06/2025
Job Purpose: To facilitate and provide mentorship for clinical HIV management
and midwifery practice at primary health care level
SALARY : R693 096 per annum, (OSD). Other Benefits: Medical Aid – Optional, Housing
Allowance - Employee must meet prescribed requirements, 13th Cheque and
12% rural allowance.
CENTRE : Edumbe Sub-District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate (Matric), Diploma/Degree in Nursing or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. A
Post Basic Nursing qualification in midwifery neonatal nursing science, with a
duration of at least 1 year accredited with the SANC. A minimum of nine (9)
years appropriate /recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC. At least five (5) years of the period referred to
above must be appropriate/recognizable experience as an advanced Midwife
after obtaining the one (1) year post-basic qualification in Advance Midwife.
Current registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. Unendorsed valid driver’s license. Knowledge, Skills &
Competencies: Knowledge of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing
statutes, and other relevant legal frameworks such as: Nursing Act, Health Act,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, Patient Rights Charter, Batho Pele
Principles, Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Disciplinary Code
and Procedure, Grievance Procedure, etc - Good communication skills, Report
writing skills, Facilitation skills, Counselling skills, Coordination skills, Planning
and organizing skills, Ability to function as part of a team, Decision making skills
and Computer skills.
49
DUTIES : Facilitate and provide mentorship for clinical maternal and paediatric HAST
management and midwifery practice at primary health care facilities. To
conduct skills audit for newly appointed midwives and train accordingly. To
conduct skills audit for newly appointed midwives and train accordingly.
Provide professional and technical support for the provision of quality patient
care through proper management of integrated Antenatal, Intrapartum and
Postnatal care, Vertical Transmission Prevention (VTP) and Maternal Child and
Woman Health (MCWH). Support the Sub District perinatal and wedge
meetings working closely with assistant Nursing manager: PHC -To conduct
clinical audits under the MCWH and VTP programme. Provide professional and
technical support for the provision of quality patient care through proper
management of integrated Antenatal, Intrapartum and Postnatal care, Vertical
Transmission Prevention (VTP) and Maternal Growing KwaZulu-Natal together
working closely with assistant Nursing manager: PHC -To conduct clinical
audits under the MCWH and VTP programme. Facilitate implementation and
adherence to Policy guidelines and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs).
Ensure availability of policy guidelines including revised circulars to all the
facilities. Provide training on all the guidelines, SOPs and circulars. Orientates
midwives on revised policies procedures and standard operating procedures.
Monitor the implementation of MCWH and VTP policies/guidelines, SOPs and
standards of care. To Facilitate Child Health Services. Facilitate Early Infant
Diagnosis (EID) for HIV exposed infants through real time PCR and MDO
monitoring. Monitor the HIV testing for all HIV exposed infant in his/her facilities
using the Elimination of Mother to Child transmission (EMCT) tracking tool.
Monitor the implementation of Integrated Management of Childhood Illness
(IMCI). Monitor the initiation of all HIV positive infants within 7 days. To facilitate
Capacity Building of staff offering MCWH. Conduct supportive supervision and
identify gaps in training needs. Provide onsite training, coaching and
mentorship according to identified needs. Facilitate regular Essential Steps in
the Management of Obstetrics Emergencies (ESMOE) Fire Drills in the
facilities they support. Ensure that the validation and counter-signing
processes are adhered to through capacity building. Facilitate data for action
Monitoring and reporting using the continuous quality improvement (CQI)
methodology. Facilitate training and coaching on key integrated VTP MCWH
key data elements and indicators. Facilitate and coach midwifes on the use of
run charts to be able to identify poor performing indicator and come up with
quality improvement plans. Facilitate wedge meetings where facilities will
present their key dashboard indicators. Compile Sub District reports on
Monthly, Quarterly and Annually basis.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs LT Msibi Tel No: (034) 995 8500, Ext: 8528
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application quoting the reference number of the post you are
applying for and the name of the publication in which you saw the
advertisement to The Director: Human Resource Management Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X9142, Pietermaritzburg, 3200, for attention Mrs ZJ
Hlongwane. Alternatively, applications can be delivered to 191 Prince Alfred
Street, Pietermaritzburg. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applicants
can submit their Z83 and CV online.
CLOSING DATE : 05 September 2025
NOTE : Directions To Candidates Note to applicants: The Provincial Administration of
KwaZulu-Natal is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer and Women
and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Applications must be
submitted individually on the prescribed new approved Z83 form, the form is
available from the website www.kznworks.gov.za or can be obtainable from any
Public Service department, and must be accompanied by a comprehensive
Curriculum Vitae (CV). Certified copies of supporting documents need not
accompany your application and CV, as these will be requested from shortlisted
candidates only. Faxed or electronic copies will not be considered. Candidates
are urged to view the guidelines available to all prospective candidates
applying for vacant position on the departmental website before completing
applications for posts. Direct your application quoting the reference number of
the post you are applying for and the name of the publication in which you saw
the advertisement to Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated
Online Application Centre’s (DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you
50
with applying online or receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the
list of Designated Online Application Centers (DOACS) at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.” Candidates are also advised not to send their
applications through registered mail, as the Department will not take
responsibility for non-collection thereof. It is the applicants’ responsibility to
have foreign qualifications assessment for equivalent by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applications that do not comply with the
above-mentioned instructions will be disqualified. Please note that the
Department reserves the right not to fill the post. Recommended candidate’s
personal information will be subject to vetting prior to an offer of appointment
being made. Candidates are expected to be available on the date set for the
interviews or they may be disqualified. Should you not have been contacted by
this office within 3 months of the closing date of the advertisement, kindly
consider your application being unsuccessful. Please note that further
communication shall be restricted to those candidates who will have been
shortlisted. 1.6 The appointed candidate shall be required to sign a
performance agreement. Please note that reference checks and/or
confirmation of employment will be done with the current employer and
candidates are advised to include references from the current employment to
facilitate this. The filling of this post will be guided by the Department’s
Employment Equity targets. Please note that requests for higher salaries will
not be entertained for the advertised posts, however it may only be considered
for posts falling within the Occupational Specific Dispensation (OSD) subject
to the existing provisions. Candidates applying for advertised posts in the
Department, will be deemed to have granted consent to their personal
information being used to determine suitability in terms of the POPIA Act, 4 of
2013. Please note that employment verifications shall be undertaken for all
experience which has been recognized for shortlisting purposes, experience in
the public service will need to be supported with a signed job description and
PERSAL service record history and experience from the private sector needs
to be supported by a certificate of service confirming the name of company,
position held, periods of employment and duties performed. Experience that
cannot be verified will result in the applicant being disqualified.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 29/63 : DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO: HO/D/SCM/082025
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13) (all-inclusive), to be structured in accordance
with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS).
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate and recognised NQF level 7 degree or equivalent qualification.
A minimum of five (5) years’ middle/senior managerial experience in the Supply
Chain Management services. Computer Literacy. Possession of a valid driver’s
licence and an appropriate and applicable SMS Pre-entry (Nyukela) Certificate
to be submitted prior to appointment. Skills, Training and Competencies:
Understanding of all relevant prescripts. Interpretation and application of
policies /legislations. Presentation and facilitation skills. Financial Management
skills. Strategic Planning and coordination skills. People management and
empowerment skills. Analytical, creative and innovative thinking skills.
DUTIES : Manage logistics services. Manage Departmental assets and the asset
disposal process. Manage the provision of acquisition and demand
management services. Manage construction procurement services. Manage
procurement administration and BBBEE. Manage the development and
implementation of policies. Manage the resources within the component.
ENQUIRES : Dr V Govender (Acting Head of Department) Tel No: (033) 355 5533
NOTE : NB: Recommended candidates will be subjected to a security clearance,
competency assessment and will also be required to disclose their financial
interests and will also be subjected to a technical assessment during the
selection process.
51
DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY
The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Provincial Treasury is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer and preference will be given to previously disadvantaged groups.
APPLICATIONS : KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Treasury, P O Box 3613, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or
145 Chief Albert Luthuli Road Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applications can also be
submitted via the e-services system, please assess this site (eservices. gov.za)
FOR ATTENTION : Ms SL Ngema
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
NOTE : Note The new Z83 form must be used effective 1st January 2021 and can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies.The Z83 must be accompanied by
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only provisionally shortlisted applicants will
be contacted and requested to submit their supporting documents. The Z83
must be completed in full. The Department will also conduct reference checks
with HR of current /previous employer(s) beside the references provided on
CV. Candidates will be subjected security screening and a technical
assessment. Under no circumstances will be faxed, emailed and late
applications be accepted. The Department discourages applications that are
registered and will not be held responsible for applications sent via registered
mail which are not collected from the post office. It is the responsibility of the
applicant to ensure that the application reaches the Department timeously.
Should you not hear from the Department within 3 months of the closing date,
please regard your application as unsuccessful. Regrettably, due to excessive
budget cuts, the department is not in a position to meet any travel and
subsistence costs relating to recruitment processes, or relocation and
resettlement costs for successful candidates. Preferencs: For Director posts,
Females and people with disabilities who meet the requirements. For the
Deputy Director post, African Females, African Males and people with
disabilities who meet the requirements.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 29/64 : DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL BUDGET REF NO: KZN PT25/35
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive annual package)
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A 3 year Recognized Degree (NQF7) or higher qualification in Economics,
Public Finance, Accounting or related field. SMS Pre-Entry Certificate prior to
employment - please access this website for more information
https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-pre-entry-programme. 5 years
of experience at a middle/senior managerial level as a Budget Co-ordinator,
Budget Manager or Budget Analyst in a public finance field (financial
management, revenue and expenditure management and budgeting systems).
A valid driver’s license and people with disabilities without valid driver’s
licenses will be assisted by the department to meet work related travel
obligations. Skills, Knowledge and Competencies: Public Finance
Management Act. Treasury Regulations. Division of Revenue Act. Public
Service Regulatory Framework. Public Finance Management – Best practices.
National Treasury Guideline documents. South Africa’s fiscal and monetary
policy. Provincial policy priorities. Performance budgeting – best practices and
guidelines. Vulindlela. Budget formulation. Basic Accounting System (BAS)
and Standard Chart of Accounts (SCOA). In-Year Monitoring (IYM). Republic
of South Africa Constitution. Public Service Act. Employee Performance and
Management System. Project Management Principles. Service Delivery
Framework Problem-solving, analytical and numeracy skills. Quantitative and
econometric (statistical) analysis. Report writing and general (academic)
writing skills. Verbal communication and presentation skills. Good
interpersonal relations. Computer skills: Spreadsheets (MS Excel), word
processing (MS Word). Research and analysis. Facilitating/ chairing meetings.
Monitoring and forecasting. Project management. Budgeting and budgeting
systems. Performance budgeting and strategic planning. Problem-solving
skills. Human resource management. Strategic Planning Skill.
DUTIES : Analyse expenditure trends against budget, compile and submit consolidated
expenditure reports. Oversee the process to compile the Adjustments Estimate
for the province, draft the Adjustments Bill and provide input into the
Adjustments Budget Speech. Oversee the processes to compile the Estimates
of Provincial Revenue and Expenditure for the Province, draft the main
52
Appropriation bill and provide input into the speech. Manage, assess and
control the implementation of the provincial budget – Compliance to the PFMA.
Manage the development and implementation of policies. Manage the
resources of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Stielau Tel No: (033) 897 4308
POST 29/65 : DIRECTOR: PUBLIC FINANCE REF NO: KZNPT 25/36
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive annual package)
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A 3 year Recognized NQF level 7 qualification or higher qualification in
Economics/Public Finance/Revenue or related field. SMS Pre-Entry certificate
prior to employment- please access this website
https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-pre-entry-programme. 5 years
of experience at a middle/senior managerial level as a revenue co-ordinator,
budget analyst in a public finance field/economic analysis environment. A valid
driver’s license and people with disabilities without valid driver’s licenses will
be assisted by the department to meet work related travel obligations. Skills,
Knowledge and Competencies: Public Finance Management Act and Treasury
Regulations. Division of Revenue Act. Public Service Regulatory Framework.
Public Finance Management – Best practices. National Treasury Guideline
documents. South Africa’s fiscal and monetary policy. Provincial policy
priorities. Performance budgeting – best practices and guidelines. Vulindlela.
Budget formulation. Basic Accounting System (BAS) and Standard Chart of
Accounts (SCOA). In Year Monitoring (IYM).
DUTIES : Research into revenue enhancement strategies, implementation of revenue
enhancement strategies and provide management of revenue generation.
Monitor and evaluate own revenue generation and collection by provincial
departments and public entities. Research, develop, oversee the
implementation and review of the KZN Provincial Equitable Share. Consolidate
inputs and recommendations in terms of the revision and maintenance of
Division of Revenue Act (DORA). Manage resources of the Sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Stielau Tel No: (033) 897 4308
OTHER POST
POST 29/66 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING REF NO: KZNPT 25/37
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Recognized 3-year (NQF Level 6) or higher qualification in Social Science
(Policy Development Studied, M&E), Business Management, Public
Administration. A minimum of 3 years junior management experience in a
strategic planning management field. A valid Driver’s License. People with
disabilities without valid driver’s licenses will be assisted by the department to
meet work related travel obligations. Skills, Knowledge, And Competencies:
Planning Frameworks Relevant legislation and plans, Public Service
Regulation,2016, MTEF and the budget Process, PFMA, Treasury
Regulations, Public Service Act 1994, Strategic Plan Framework, Annual
Performance Plan, Monitoring & Evaluation, National Treasury Strategic
Planning, Advanced MS Office Applications, Service Delivery Framework,
Employee performance and management system, Project management Act,
Analytical skill, Leader skills, Planning skills, Organizational skill, Management
skill, Computer Literacy skill, Policy Analysis/Development skill, Interpersonal
relations skill, Presentation skill, Problem Solving Skill, Communication (verbal
& written), Report writing skill, Negotiation skill, Risk management skill,
Strategic planning skill, Research skill, Facilitation skill, Project Management
skill, conflict management skill, Financial Management skill.
DUTIES : Manage the coordination of the department strategic and operational planning
process. Develop and maintain strategic planning and reporting guidelines in
the department (Strategic plans, Annual Performance Plan, Annual Operational
Plan, Service Delivery Improvement Plan). Coordinate the submission and
analysis of quarterly, bi-annual and annual report documents. Provide
guidance & support to the line manager. Manage the resources of the sub-
directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. T Mgujulwa Tel No: (033) 897 4211
53
ANNEXURE M
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
It is the strategic intent of the Department to promote employment equity in terms of race, gender and
disability through the filling of these posts with candidates whose transfer, promotion or appointment
will promote equitable representativity in line with the numeric targets as contained in the departmental
Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : Fully completed and signed Z83 employment application form, quoting
reference number should be addressed to the Head: Economic Development
and Tourism. Applications can be hand delivered to Nokuthula Simelane
Building, 1st Floor, No 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside Park, Extension 02
Mbombela, 1201 or alternatively applications emailed to the respective email
address provided for each post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025 @ 16h00
NOTE : It is compulsory to fill all fields on the New Amended Z83 Form (No.81/971431)
as prescribed with effect from 01 January 2021, which must be signed, initialled
and dated. The form is obtainable at any National or Provincial Department(s),
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applicants must indicate the Post,
Reference Number on the Z83 Form application. The new Z83 Form must be
accompanied by a recent updated curriculum vitae with full personal details,
experience, including three (3) names of contactable referees and it is the
applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by SAQA
and to provide proof of such evaluation report (only when shortlisted). The
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part F must
be answered by applicants who were previously appointed in the public
service. Applications received after closing date will, as a rule not be accepted.
Only shortlisted candidates for the post will be required to submit certified
documents on or before the day of the interviews. It will be expected of
candidate(s) to be available for interview process on a date, time and place as
determined by the Department. Shortlisted candidate(s) will be required to
undergo personal suitability checks, which include criminal records,
citizenship, financial credits/assets, qualifications verification and previous
employment background/reference checks will be verified. Candidates will be
subject to security screening and vetting. Applicants must disclose if she/he is
not a Director/Shareholder of a company or conducting any business with
Organ of State and whether is performing any additional remunerative work
outside his/her normal duties. The successful candidate will enter into an
Annual Performance Agreement, and also annually disclose his/her financial
interest. The Department reserves the right not to make appointment.
Candidates requiring additional information regarding advertised post must
direct their enquiries to the relevant person indicated. Communication and
correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date, please accept
that your application was unsuccessful. The successful candidate will be
appointed subject to positive results of a pre-employment screening process
which includes criminal records and verification of educational qualification
certificates. Candidates requiring additional information regarding advertised
post must direct their enquiries to the relevant person indicated.
Communication and correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates
only. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing
date, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The Department
reserves the right not to make appointment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 29/67 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT AND COORDINATION:
OFFICE OF THE MEC REF NO: DEDT 2025/26/10
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate SAQA recognised NQF level 7 qualification in Public
Administration/Public Management/Business Administration or relevant
qualification, with a minimum of (3) years relevant work experience at an
entry/junior managerial level (Assistant Director Level or equivalent). A valid
driver’s license. Competencies: Broad knowledge and understanding of the
54
functional areas covered by the Executive Authority’s portfolio. Working
knowledge of the political and parliamentary processes in the South African
Government. Proven management competencies. Knowledge of Cabinet
Administration processes. Report writing skills. Presentation skills. Computer
literacy. Problem solving skills.
DUTIES : Manage the administrative activities in the Office of the Executive Authority
(EA) which include: Providing administrative support and receptionist services
in the Office of the EA. Liaise with internal and external role players with regard
to matters relating to the portfolio of the executive authority. Render a
Cabinet/executive council support service to the executive authority. Providing
Registry support services in the Office of the EA: Providing logistical support
for the meetings of the EA. Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SJ Xaba Tel No: (013) 766 4164
APPICATIONS : Email application to: recruitmentdedt2@mpg.gov.za
POST 29/68 : REGISTRY CLERK: OFFICE OF THE MEC REF NO: DEDT 2025/26/11
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate SAQA recognized NQF level six (06) tertiary qualification in
records management or equivalent qualification. Good verbal and written
communication skills, knowledge of the National Archives and Records
Services Act and MISS Ability to work independently and under pressure.
Knowledge of the records management policy, procedures and manuals.
Knowledge of legislative framework governing records management will serve
as an advantage, e.g. the Promotion of Access to Information Act.
DUTIES : Responsible for safekeeping of current, closed and terminated departmental
records. Filing and retrieval of records as per the National Archives Act and
other prescripts. Ensure compliance with all relevant acts. Develop and
manage all registers utilized by Registry. Ensure proper control and custody of
the records. Render efficient and effective quality registry services to internal
and external clients. Implement records management policy and procedures.
Ensure the use of the file plan, indexing and referencing of documents by all
personnel before filling. Provide recommendations for archiving or disposal of
files on due dates. Handling incoming and outgoing mail. Render effective
filling and record management service. Compile management reports with
regards to records management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NC Ndlala Tel No: (013) 766 4370
APPLICATIONS : Email recruitmentdedt5@mpg.gov.za
POST 29/69 : DRIVER: OFFICE OF THE MEC REF NO: DEDT 2025/26/12
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Grade ten (10) with three (3) years driving experience work experience as a
driver and a valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide messenger services for the MEC’s Office and the Department. Collect
and deliver mail and documents on behalf of the MEC’s Office and the
Department as and when required to do so. Ensure that the car is frequently
serviced, and well maintained at all times. Keep record of trips undertaken as
and perform duties as and when instructed to do so.
ENQUIRIES : Ms FP Sibiya Tel No: (013) 766 4490
APPLICATIONS : Email to recruitmentdedt4@mpg.gov.za
POST 29/70 : FOOD SERVICE AID: OFFICE OF THE MEC REF NO: DEDT 2025/26/13
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Grade ten (10) with one (01) year work experience.
DUTIES : Clean the offices of MEC and support staff offices. Ensure that all kitchen
utensils and equipment are always clean. Keep inventory of kitchen utensils
and equipment. Apply hygiene and protection measures. Removal of rubbish
disposal. Prepare food, snack and liquids (water, tea, coffee, milk, sugar drinks)
for MEC’s meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Mabuza Tel No: (013) 766 4140
APPLICATIONS : Email to recruitmentdedt6@mpg.gov.za
55
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions.
Candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
NOTE : NB: Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae. In order to alleviate the administration burden on HR
Sections as well as considering the cost for applicants, Departments are
encouraged to request certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents from shortlisted candidates only which may be submitted to HR on
or before the day of the interview following communication from the relevant
HR section of the Department. All posts, health/engineering posts that are
advertised within the Department professional registration will be required from
various statutory councils for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of
application documents should be submitted separately for every post that you
wish to apply for. Please ensure that you clearly state the full post description
and the relevant Post Reference Number on your application. No fax
applications will be considered. Applicants must ensure that they fully complete
and sign form Z83, even if they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or unsigned
applications will not be considered. If you are currently in service, please
indicate your PERSAL number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing internal
processes, the Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at any time.
The Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All
short-listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment.
If no response is received from the Mpumalanga Department of Health within
90 days after the closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume
that their application was not successful. Please quote the correct references
when applying and where possible the station / centre where the post is.
www.mpuhealth.gov.za Only Online Applications will be accepted. NB:
Candidates who are not contacted within 90 DAYS after the closing date must
consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. Please note the
department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised
posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well served.
(People with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the posts were posted in the Public Service
Vacancy Circular 24 dated 11 July 2025, the post of Lecturer Grade 1 – 2 (PN-
D1) (Clinical Supervisor): Rob Ferreira Hospital Campus (Mpumalanga
College of Nursing, Ehlanzeni District) with Ref No: MPDoH/July/25/190 with
the closing date of 25 July 2025, the posts were posted in the Public Service
Vacancy Circular 27 of 2025 dated 01 August 2025, the posts of Deputy
Manager Nursing (PN-A8): Comprehensive HAS Clinical Management and
Treatment (CCMT) (Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit) with Ref No:
MPDoH/Aug/25/275, Deputy Manager Nursing (PN-A8): HIV, AIDS and STI
Prevention Programmes (Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit) with Ref No:
MPDoH/Aug/25/276, Deputy Manager Nursing (PN-A8): Partnership and
Stakeholder Management (Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit) with Ref
No: MPDoH/Aug/25/277 and Assistant Manager Nursing (PN-A7):
Comprehensive HAS Clinical Management and Treatment (CCMT) (Mbombela
Sub-district and Nkomazi Sub-district, Ehlanzeni District) with the closing date
of 15 August 2025, has been withdrawn.
OTHER POSTS
POST 29/71 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/25/320 (X10 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 001 349 - R1 078 116 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District:
Rob Ferreira Hospital (X3 Posts)
Barberton Hospital (X1 Post)
Tintswalo Hospital (X2 Posts)
56
Nkangala District:
Witbank Hospital (X2 Posts)
Gert Sibande District:
Amajuba Memorial Hospital (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner (2025) (Independent Practice). NB: The appointed Medical Officer
must be able to work shifts. A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge
of current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: No experience required after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year
relevant experience after registration with a recognised Foreign Health
Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent
Practice) for foreign qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and
Competences Required: Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary
management and teamwork and experience in the respective medical
discipline. Sound clinical knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical
domains. The ability to work under supervision as an efficient team member.
Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability
to manage patients independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when
necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and
priorities within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the
department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team,
self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Sound clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Ability to deal with all
medical emergencies. Knowledge of ethical medical practice. Assist with
clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 29/72 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): MATERNITY REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/25/322 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R693 096 – R789 861 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District:
Bethal Hospital (X1 Post)
Carolina Hospital (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/
Degree in Nursing) that allows registration with the 'South African Nursing
Council' (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing
qualification, with duration of at least one (01) year accredited with the SANC
in Advanced Midwifery. Diploma/Degree in nursing management. Minimum of
ten (09) years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration
as a Professional Nurse with South African Nursing Council (SANC) in General
Nursing At least six (05) years of period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable in the specific specialty after obtaining the one (01)
year post basic qualification in Advanced Midwifery. At least three (03) years of
the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable experience at
Management Level Skills: Knowledge of nursing care processes and
procedures, nursing statutes and other relevant legal frameworks such as
Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act Patient’s Rights
Charter, Batho-Pele Principles. Sound knowledge and skills in implementing
disciplinary code and procedure, grievance procedure Leadership,
organizational, decision making and problem-solving abilities within the limit of
57
the public sector and institutional policy framework Good interpersonal skills
including public relations, negotiating, conflict handling and counselling skills.
Knowledge of financial and budgetary prescripts and processes pertaining to
the relevant resources under management Insight into public health sector
strategies and priorities including the nursing strategy, standards procedures
and policies pertaining to nursing care, computer skills in basic programs.
DUTIES : Provide effective management and professional leadership in the specialized
units of Advanced Midwifery Unit. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors, other health professional and junior colleagues including
more complex report writing when required Effective management, utilization
and supervision of all resources Display a concern for patients, promoting,
advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care and ensure that the unit
adheres to the principles of Batho Pele Maintain clinical competence by
ensuring that scientific principles of nursing and clinical governance are
implemented. Implement maternal guidelines, demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practice. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and any labour related issues
in terms of laid down procedures. Provide supportive supervision and comply
with PMDS evaluation of staff, formulate training programs and participate in
training and development of staff and nursing students Monitor implementation
of Disaster management, monitor implementation of NCS and Ideal Hospital
Realization Framework and interpret its impact on service delivery thereof. Co-
ordinate and participate in health promotion activities and monitor and
evaluation of data. Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a support tool to
enhance service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 29/73 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): OPERATING THEATRE
REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/25/323 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R693 096 – R789 861 per annum
CENTRE : Carolina Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/
Degree in Nursing) that allows registration with the 'South African Nursing
Council' (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing
qualification, with duration of at least one (01) year accredited with the SANC
in Operating Theatre. Diploma/Degree in nursing management. Minimum of
ten (09) years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration
as a Professional Nurse with South African Nursing Council (SANC) in General
Nursing At least six (05) years of period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable in the specific specialty after obtaining the one (01)
year post basic qualification in Operating Theatre. At least three (03) years of
the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable experience at
Management Level Skills: Knowledge of nursing care processes and
procedures, nursing statutes and other relevant legal frameworks such as
Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act Patient’s Rights
Charter, Batho-Pele Principles. Sound knowledge and skills in implementing
disciplinary code and procedure, grievance procedure Leadership,
organizational, decision making and problem-solving abilities within the limit of
the public sector and institutional policy framework Good interpersonal skills
including public relations, negotiating, conflict handling and counselling skills.
Knowledge of financial and budgetary prescripts and processes pertaining to
the relevant resources under management Insight into public health sector
strategies and priorities including the nursing strategy, standards procedures
and policies pertaining to nursing care, computer skills in basic programs.
DUTIES : Provide effective management and professional leadership in the specialized
units of Operating Theatre Unit. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors, other health professional and junior colleagues including
more complex report writing when required Effective management, utilization
and supervision of all resources Display a concern for patients, promoting,
advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care and ensure that the unit
adheres to the principles of Batho Pele Maintain clinical competence by
ensuring that scientific principles of nursing and clinical governance are
58
implemented. Implement maternal guidelines, demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practice. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and any labour related issues
in terms of laid down procedures. Provide supportive supervision and comply
with PMDS evaluation of staff, formulate training programs and participate in
training and development of staff and nursing students Monitor implementation
of Disaster management, monitor implementation of NCS and Ideal Hospital
Realization Framework and interpret its impact on service delivery thereof. Co-
ordinate and participate in health promotion activities and monitor and
evaluation of data. Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a support tool to
enhance service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 29/74 : CHIEF DIAGNOSTIC RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/25/324
SALARY : R575 250 – R638 856 per annum
CENTRE : Tonga Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate three-year National diploma/
Degree in Diagnostic Radiography. Current Registration with Health
Professions Council of South Africa as Diagnostic Radiographer (Independent
Practice). A minimum of 3 years appropriate experience in Diagnostic
Radiography. Working Knowledge and experience in radiography principles,
systems and procedures performed within the radiology department which
include CT scanning, fluoroscopy, theatre screening and performing General
Radiography duties. Sound knowledge of radiation safety regulations and
sound knowledge in Radiography equipment and protocols. Knowledge of
relevant public service policies acts and regulations. Knowledge of HR related
policies and procedures, knowledge of Employee Performance Management
and Development Systems. Good verbal and written communication, and
sound interpersonal skills. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to promote
and uphold patients’ rights. Knowledge of X-ray digital system, RIS and PACS.
Render 24-hour radiology services.
DUTIES : Responsibility include but not limited to: Performance of X-ray examinations.
Ensure that radiology equipment installed and used meet all applicable
radiation safety standards. Ensure that the equipment is well maintained and
function properly. Quality improvement management. Ensure that applicable
Quality assurance programme and Quality Control (QC) tests are performed at
the prescribed frequencies as stipulated in the diagnostic QC policy. Ensure
that radiation surveys to monitor safe performance of equipment and to monitor
radiation levels in work areas are undertaken. Ensure compliance with HPCSA
regulations on CPD annually. Ensure that radiation safety rules are
communicated to and followed by all personnel. Train and supervise junior
radiography staff. Oversight of administrative functions including compiling
memos, stock control and other resources. Perform all delegated departmental
tasks with limited supervision and have the ability to deal with crisis situations
independently.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 29/75 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER (PN-A5): GENERAL REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/25/327 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R549 192 - R629 121 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District:
Standerton Hospital (X1 Post)
Bethal Hospital (X1 Post)
Amajuba Memorial Hospital (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Nursing Council in Terms of Government Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma /
59
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of seven (7) years of
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing (2025). A Diploma /
Degree in Nursing Administration and Management will be an added
advantage. Knowledge/skills: Basic computer literacy, strong Leadership,
Good communication and Sound Interpersonal skills. Ability to work under
pressure, manage own time, function as an effective leader of the nursing
team. Implement and manage change. Willingness to work shifts and standby
in accordance with the requirements of the unit and nursing services. Report
writing.
DUTIES : The candidate will be responsible for Planning, Organizing, Managing, and
coordinating as well as maintaining optimal Nursing Services as an Operational
Manager in OPD Unit. Develop / establish and maintain constructive working
relationships with Nursing and stakeholders (i.e. inter- Professional, inter–
sectoral and multi – disciplinary team workers). Participate in the analysis,
formulation, and implementation of nursing guidelines, practices, Standards,
and procedures. Effectively manage the utilization of Human, Financial and
Physical resources. Maintain professional Growth / Ethical standards and self-
development. Deliver a supportive service to the Nursing Service and the
institution by taking overall supervision after hours and on weekends. Ensure
implementation of Norms and Standards and Ideal Hospital Framework and
develop Quality Improvement Plans. Manage Performance and Development
of staff as well as participating in the Managers scheduled meetings. Exercise
control of discipline, grievance and other labour related issues in terms of laid
down policies or procedures. Manage data in the unit and ensure submission
to facility information office. Identity develops and control Risk Management
Systems within the unit. Provide safe therapeutic environment as laid by
Nursing Acts, Occupational Health and safety Acts and all the applicable
prescripts. Implementation and management of Infection Prevention and
Control protocols. Uphold the Batho Pele and Patients Right Principles.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 29/76 : CLINICAL SUPERVISOR (LECTURER GRADE 1-2 (PN-D1) REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/25/330 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 - R766 686 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Basic R425
qualification (Diploma / Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2025) plus post basic qualification in
Nursing Education registered with the SANC. A minimum of four (4) years
appropriate / recognisable nursing experience after registration as Professional
Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function independently and
to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving
and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills. Experience
after registration with SANC in Nursing Education after obtaining post basic
qualification in Nursing Education will be an added advantage. Excellent written
and verbal communication. Leadership skills, Presentation, Facilitation,
problem solving, conflict management, research, project management and
time management skills. Excellent written and verbal communication.
DUTIES : Planning, co-ordination, implementation, and facilitation of training
programmes for nurses in the health establishment. Mentoring and coaching
of nursing staff. Co-ordinate the activities of Clinical Education and Training
Unit (CETU). Facilitate the implementation of Continuous Professional
Development (CPD) Framework. Liaise between Nursing Education and
Nursing Practice (Hospital & Nursing College). Provide Skills and competency
updates and facilitation of in-service training. Monitoring, evaluation and
analysis of training programmes/activities/competencies and skills to ensure
quality health service delivery. Internal and External Collaboration on training
programmes to ensure effective capacity building. Effective Management,
60
coordination, administration, and reporting of Teaching Programmes.
Demonstrate an understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and
ethical nursing practices. Effective and efficient management of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 29/77 : LECTURER GRADE 1 (PN-D1): STANDERTON HOSPITAL SUB-CAMPUS
REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/25/331
SALARY : R476 367 - R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Mpumalanga College of Nursing, Kabokweni
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Masters /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional nurse plus post basic
qualification in Nursing Education registered with the SANC. A minimum of four
(4) years appropriate / recognisable nursing experience after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing (2025). Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Experience after registration with SANC in Nursing Education after
obtaining R118 in Nursing Education will be an added advantage. Excellent
written and verbal communication. Leadership skills, Presentation, Facilitation,
problem solving, conflict management, research, project management and
time management skills. Excellent written and verbal communication.
Leadership skills, Presentation, Facilitation, problem solving, conflict
management, research, project management and time management skills.
DUTIES : Planning, co-ordination, implementation, and facilitation of training
programmes for nurses in the health establishment. Mentoring and coaching
of nursing staff. Co-ordinate the activities of Clinical Education and Training
Unit (CETU). Facilitate the implementation of Continuous Professional
Development (CPD) Framework. Liaise between Nursing Education and
Nursing Practice (Hospital & Nursing College). Provide Skills and competency
updates and facilitation of in-service training. Monitoring, evaluation and
analysis of training programmes/activities/competencies and skills to ensure
quality health service delivery. Internal and External Collaboration on training
programmes to ensure effective capacity building. Effective Management, co-
ordination, administration, and reporting of Teaching Programmes.
Demonstrate an understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and
ethical nursing practices. Effective and efficient management of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 29/78 : LECTURER GRADE 1 (PN-D1): ROB FERREIRA HOSPITAL SUB-CAMPUS
REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/25/332
SALARY : R476 367 - R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Mpumalanga College of Nursing, Kabokweni
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Masters /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional nurse plus post basic
qualification in Nursing Education registered with the SANC. A minimum of four
(4) years appropriate / recognisable nursing experience after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing (2025). Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Experience after registration with SANC in Nursing Education after
obtaining R118 in Nursing Education will be an added advantage. Excellent
written and verbal communication. Leadership skills, Presentation, Facilitation,
problem solving, conflict management, research, project management and
time management skills. Excellent written and verbal communication.
61
Leadership skills, Presentation, Facilitation, problem solving, conflict
management, research, project management and time management skills.
DUTIES : Planning, co-ordination, implementation, and facilitation of training
programmes for nurses in the health establishment. Mentoring and coaching
of nursing staff. Co-ordinate the activities of Clinical Education and Training
Unit (CETU). Facilitate the implementation of Continuous Professional
Development (CPD) Framework. Liaise between Nursing Education and
Nursing Practice (Hospital & Nursing College). Provide Skills and competency
updates and facilitation of in-service training. Monitoring, evaluation and
analysis of training programmes/activities/competencies and skills to ensure
quality health service delivery. Internal and External Collaboration on training
programmes to ensure effective capacity building. Effective Management, co-
ordination, administration, and reporting of Teaching Programmes.
Demonstrate an understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and
ethical nursing practices. Effective and efficient management of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 29/79 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): ICU REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/25/333
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/
Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing qualification with
of at least 1year, accredited with the SANC in terms Government Notice R212
in ICU Nursing Science. A minimum of four (4) years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing. Ability to function independently and to prioritize work.
Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-
making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills. Demonstrate an
understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice of
ICU Nursing Care. Ensure effective and efficient management of resources.
Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards. Participate in quality
improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient care standards.
Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with the statutory
laws governing the nursing profession, labour and health care. Implement
constructive working relations with nurses and other stakeholders. Ensure
compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that equipment
is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize, coordinate activities of
patient management according to protocols. Able to plan and organize own
work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate
in staff development and performance management. Report patient safety
incidence, challenges and deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-
operatively amicably with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or
religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and
Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 29/80 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): PSYCHIATRIC REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/25/334
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/
Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing qualification with
of at least 1year, accredited with the SANC in terms Government Notice R212
62
in Psychiatric Nursing Science. A minimum of four (4) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Demonstrate an understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice of
Psychiatric Nursing Care. Ensure effective and efficient management of
resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards.
Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient
care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with
the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stakeholders.
Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that
equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize, coordinate
activities of patient management according to protocols. Able to plan and
organize own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing
care. Participate in staff development and performance management. Report
patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies within the unit. Work
effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural,
racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and
Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 29/81 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 (PN-B1): PHC REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/25/338 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District:
Mispel Clinic (X1 Post)
Eerstehoek Clinic (X1 Post)
Mooiplaas Clinic (X1 Post)
Kromdraai Clinic (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2025), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Primary Health Care
Science. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC. Ability to
function independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound
interpersonal skills, problem-solving and decision-making skills. Good
supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Primary Health Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stakeholders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability
to prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to
protocols. Able to plan and organize your own work and that of support
personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and
performance management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and
deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with
people of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure
adherence to Batho-Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
63
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 29/82 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/25/339
SALARY : R397 233 - R454 191 per annum
CENTRE : Tonga Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
QUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus appropriate qualification that allows for the
registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable).
Current registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist (2025)
(Independent Practice). A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Grade 1: No experience required after registration with the HPCSA
as an Occupational Therapist (Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year
relevant experience after registration with a recognised Foreign Health
Professions and / or the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist (Independent
Practice) for foreign qualified employees. Clinical experience in general adult
and paediatric assessment and treatment is required. Knowledge in the fields
of mental health, vocational rehabilitation, neurology, hand injuries, burns,
amputations, developmental delays, etc. is expected. Clinical experience in
these fields will be beneficial.
DUTIES : To provide optimal and evidence-based occupational therapy in individual and
group settings for patients in, out and clinics. To administer standardized and
clinical assessments to patients requiring FCEs and other clinical reports. To
perform and complete administrative functions including record keeping,
statistics, participate in various meetings and awareness campaigns. To plan
for and participate in internal and external audits and ensure departmental
standards and effective service delivery. To participate in the performance
management and training and development programs within the department.
To supervise junior level staff. To supervise allocated students and learners.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 29/83 : CLINICAL TECHNOLOGIST GRADE 1: NEUROLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/25/340
SALARY : R397 233 – R454 191 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Clinical Technology. Current registration with the HPCSA as Clinical
Technologist (2025). Basic life support (BLS). A minimum of two (2) years
Dialysis experience will be an added advantage. Grade 1: SA qualified
employees: no experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant
profession (where applicable) in respect of employees who performed
Community Service as required in SA. Foreign qualified employees: one (1)
year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant
profession (where applicable) in respect of employees who performed
Community Service as required in SA. Knowledge and insight related to
dialysis machines and reverse osmosis/water purification system. Knowledge
of infection prevention and control (IPC) protocols. Basic computer literacy.
Knowledge of relevant legislation and policy related to nephrology. Ability to
function independently as well as part of a multidisciplinary team. Effective 98
communication. Good organizational skill and ability to function under
pressure. Must be prepared to work shifts, weekends and public holidays.
DUTIES : Deliver safe, comprehensive and quality patient care, with specific reference
to renal disease treatment and education according to the Scope of Practice
and Renal Care policies and standard procedures. Clinical record keeping,
procedures and protocols. Dialysis machine and water purification system
operation. Identify, prevent and manage risks to ensure patient safety.
Facilitate a positive patient experience by creating a conducive environment.
64
Develop/modify an integrated, comprehensive patient-based care plan. Patient
assessment and interpretation of blood results.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 29/84 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): GENERAL NURSING REF
NO: MPDOH/AUG/25/362 (X22 POSTS)
SALARY : R324 384 – R382 107 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District:
Amajuba Memorial Hospital (X1 Post)
Balfour CHC (X4 Posts)
Daggakraal CHC (X1 Post)
Driefontein CHC (X1 Post)
Embalenhle CHC (X2 Posts)
Evander Hospital (X4 Posts)
Lebohang CHC (X1 Post)
Kinross Clinic (X1 Post)
Sakhile Clinic (X1 Post)
Nthoroane Clinic (X1 Post)
Vukuzakhe Clinic (X1 Post)
KwaNgema Clinic (X1 Post)
Ermelo Hospital (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus Basic qualification accredited
with the SANC in terms of Government Notice (I.E. Diploma/ Degree in General
Nursing) equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse (2025). Grade 1: A minimum of 1-10 years appropriate /
recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function independently and to
prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and
decision-making skills.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho- Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 29/85 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): WITH MIDWIFERY REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/25/364 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R324 384 – R382 107 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District:
Mayflower Clinic (X1 Post)
Piet Retief Hospital (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus Basic qualification accredited
with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (I.E. Diploma/ Degree in
General Nursing) equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse (2025). Grade 1: A minimum of 1-10 years appropriate /
recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function independently and to
65
prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and
decision-making skills.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho- Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
66
ANNEXURE N
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
OFFICE OF THE PREMIER
APPLICATIONS : Please forward the applications for the post quoting the relevant reference
number to: Senior Manager, Human Resources Administration, Office of the
Premier, Kimberley, 8300, hand deliver at T & I Building, 69 Monument Heights,
Office of the Premier, Ground Floor (Security) and or email to
hrarecruitment@ncpg.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. K. Moremi
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
NOTE The NC Provincial Government is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer and aims to achieve gender and disability representativity at this
level. Therefore, we specifically call for suitably qualified women and persons
with disabilities to apply. Applications must be submitted on the new application
for employment form (Z83) and accompanied by a comprehensive CV
specifying all qualifications and experience with respective dates. The new
form can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies or obtained from any
Public Service Department. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications, ID and driver’s licence before or on the
day of the interview. Failure to comply with these pre-conditions will disqualify
applications from being processed. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). No late applications will be accepted. All shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job, the logistics of which will be accordingly communicated by
the Department. All shortlisted candidates will further be subjected to a
personnel suitability check, which includes criminal record checks, verification
of qualifications, financial and asset record checks, previous employment
verification and citizenship verification.
OTHER POST
POST 29/86 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
REF NO: PA/FM/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a National Diploma (NQF Level 6)
Secretarial/Office Management Diploma. Minimum 3 years’ experience
rendering support service to Senior Management. Demonstrable competency
in acting independently, professionally, accountability and with credibility.
General computer literacy. Language skills and ability to communicate well with
people at different levels and background. Good telephone etiquette and sound
organisational skills. Good people skills. High level of reliability. Written
communication skills. Ability to do research and analyse documents and
situations. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Basic knowledge of the
relevant legislations, policies, prescripts and procedures applicable in the
public sector. Basic knowledge of financial administration. A valid driver’s
license. Competencies: The following key competencies and skills are required
for the position: Provide secretarial, administration support, including
answering telephone and handling of diary of the Chief Financial Officer, typing
letters, memorandums and presentations. Make travel and logistical
arrangements for meetings and events. Prepare travel documentation and
coordinate bookings. Take minutes during meetings. Develop and maintain an
accessible and user-friendly electronic filing system. Perform secretarial and
other related tasks. Ensure effective flow of information and documents to and
from the office of the CFO. Respond to enquiries received from internal and
external stakeholders. Draft documents as required. Manage leave registers.
Handle the procurement of standard items such as stationery, refreshments,
etc. for the activities of the Unit. Key Responsibilities: Provide
secretarial/receptionist support services to the Chief Financial Officer and
Senior Managers; Manage incoming and outgoing information of the office;
Performs administrative duties pertaining to office affairs; Research and
prepare information for office documentation; Provide a professional reception
service to internal and external guests and clients.
67
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N. Kruger Tel No: (053) 0300 820
68
ANNEXURE O
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 08 September 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 29/87 : SCIENTIST (PRODUCTION LEVEL): BREEDING/ REPRODUCTION/
ANIMAL HOUSING AND WELFARE (ELSENBURG) REF NO: AGR 55/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R761 157 - Grade C: R1 144 008 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 4-year Degree: BSc (Hons) in Genetics or BSc (Agric) in Animal
Science; Compulsory registration with SACNASP (South African Council for
Natural Scientific Professions) as a Professional Natural Scientist in Animal
Science or Biological Science; Three years post-qualification (research)
experience; A valid driving licence. Competencies: Working knowledge of the
following: Programme and project management; Scientific methodologies and
models; Computer-aided scientific applications; Technical report writing; Data
analysis; Policy development and analysis; Presentation skills; Mentoring.
Skills in the following: Team leadership; Analytical skills; Communication;
Networking; People management; Planning and organising; Problem solving
and analysis; Change management; Innovation; Computer literacy; Ability to
work independently.
DUTIES : Develop and implement methodologies, policies, systems and procedures;
Perform scientific analysis and regulatory functions; Research and
development; Human capital development. The following will be
advantageous: MSc (Agric) or PhD in Animal Sciences/ MSc or PhD in
Genetics; A record of publication; Proven ability to conduct research in
functional genetics/genomics/breeding within the context of agricultural
production or farmed species; Experience with management and processing
of scientific data related to genetic analyses.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mulaudzi Tel No: (021) 808 5220
POST 29/88 : SCIENTIST (PRODUCTION LEVEL): NUTRITION AND PRODUCT QUALITY
REF NO: AGR 54/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R761 157 - Grade C: R1 144 008 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 4-year Degree: BSc (Hons) or BSc (Agric) in Animal Science;
Compulsory registration with SACNASP (South African Council for Natural
Scientific Professions) as a Professional Natural Scientist in Animal Science;
Three years post-qualification experience in animal nutrition; A valid driving
licence. Competencies: Working knowledge of the following: Programme and
project management; Scientific methodologies and models; Computer-aided
scientific applications; Technical report writing; Data analysis; Policy
development and analysis; Presentation skills; Mentoring. Skills in the
following: Team leadership; Analytical skills; Communication; Networking;
People management; Planning and organising; Problem solving and analysis;
Change management; Innovation; Computer literacy; Ability to work
independently; Proven ability to conduct research in animal nutrition.
69
DUTIES : Develop and implement farm animal research methodologies, systems and
standard operating procedures; Perform farm animal research data analysis
and compliance functions; Research and development; Human capital
development. It will be advantageous to have the following: PhD in Animal
Science (Nutrition), Proven proficiency in feed formulation and a record of
publications in animal nutrition.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mulaudzi Tel No: (021) 808 5220
POST 29/89 : COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER: DEPARTMENTAL COMMUNICATION
SERVICES (ELSENBURG, STELLENBOSCH) REF NO: AGR 60/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R 467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Communication, Public Relations or related field; A minimum
of 1-year relevant experience in communication, public relations, marketing or
relevant; A valid Code B (or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities
that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may
also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Creating and
maintaining good relations with people from all walks of life;
Communication/Public Relations/Marketing; Graphic design using Adobe
Creative Cloud (InDesign, Photoshop, Illustrator) and Canva in the production
of communication products; Digital media and photograph; Branding,
broadcasting/media liaison, online media (both web and social), research,
public speaking, events management, latest trends in communication and
information products; Strategic thinking in the agricultural and communication
field. Skills in the following: Excellent communication (written and verbal);
Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Ability to
work independently and as part of a team; Ability to implement; Proven ability
to organise.
DUTIES : Manage Communication Services for the Agricultural Producer Support and
Development (APSD) Programme, the Branch ADSS and the Western Cape
Department of Agriculture: Manage public enquiries relating to the APSD
Programme as well as the department; Enhance the department’s corporate
identity and brand; Develop and implement communication campaigns and
products; Design and rollout of above-the-line communication campaigns and
products in collaboration with relevant stakeholders (programmes, regions and
facilities); Build relations and collaborate with stakeholders to ensure a
common communication message to the sector through the coordination of and
participation in functions, exhibitions, conferences, roadshows and other
events of the Programme as well as the Department; Compile, edit and develop
communication and information products such as brochures, posters,
invitations, letters advertisements and publications (such as the departmental
magazine) in consultation with the Head of Communication (HoC) of the
department; Assist with the sponsorship campaign for the World Food Day
event as well as any other similar events hosted by the department; Write as
well as collect articles toward the written publications of the Department
(internal and external) such as writing of “feel good” human interest stories of
farmers and other; Provide information timeously to the HoC for media related
matters, social media and website content; Edit videos and other digital
content; Update the website with relevant information; Ensure administrative
compliance and adherence to reporting processes and structures; Develop a
photo library through photographic services at events as well as of projects;
Work with and give direction to communication related service providers such
as videographers and writers.
ENQUIRIES : Mary James Tel No: (021) 808 5008 / Cell: 084 817 2376
POST 29/90 : SCIENTIFIC TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION LEVEL): ANALYTICAL
SERVICES (ELSENBURG) REF NO: AGR 56/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R391 671 - R418 332 per annum
Grade B: R442 389 - R473 778 per annum
Grade C: R498 816 - R586 665 per annum
(Salary will be determined based on post registration experience as per OSD
prescribed).
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
70
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma (equivalent or higher qualification);
Compulsory registration with SACNASP (South African Council for Natural
Scientific Professions) as a Certificated Natural Scientist in the appropriate
scientific field; Three years post-qualification technical (scientific) experience;
A valid driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Plant
analyses; Relevant equipment; Major crops in the Western Cape; Written and
verbal communication skills; Computer literacy in MS Office package and LIMS
(Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Technical skills; Ability to work independently and
as part of a team.
DUTIES : Analyse samples (plant material) and respond to clients; Development of new
analytical procedures; Supervise, mentor and guide Laboratory Assistants;
Keep up to date with regard to the applicable prescripts, policies, procedures,
technologies and new development to be able to render an efficient and
effective service; Agricultural laboratory plant analyses; Experience with LIMS
and ICP equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Swanepoel Tel No: (021) 808 5320
POST 29/91 : SCIENTIFIC TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION LEVEL): BREEDING/
REPRODUCTION/ ANIMAL HOUSING AND WELFARE
(RIVIERSONDEREND) REF NO: AGR 59/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R391 671 - R418 332 per annum
Grade B: R442 389 - R473 778 per annum
Grade C: R498 816 - R586 665 per annum
(Salary will be determined based on post registration experience as per OSD
prescribed).
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma (equivalent or higher qualification) in
Animal Science or relevant; Compulsory registration with SACNASP (South
African Council for Natural Scientific Professions) as a Certificated Natural
Scientist in Animal Science; Three years post qualification technical (scientific)
experience; A valid driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Programme and project management; Scientific methodologies and models;
Computer aided scientific applications; Technical report writing; Data analysis;
Policy development and analysis; Presentation and mentoring; Skills needed:
Written and verbal communication; Proven computer literacy; Team leadership;
Analytical; Networking; People management; Planning and organising;
Problem solving and analysis; Change management; Innovation; Ability to work
independently.
DUTIES : Develop and implement methodologies, policies, systems and procedures;
Provide technical support and advice; Perform technical scientific analysis and
regulatory functions; Research and development; Human capital development.
The following will have advantageous: Working knowledge of fine wool
production systems, wool classification and testing; Experience in recording
and coordination of research data related to animal science or breeding
research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mulaudzi Tel No: (021) 808 5220
POST 29/92 : LABORATORY ASSISTANT: ANALYTICAL SERVICES (ELSENBURG) REF
NO: AGR 53/2025
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification). Competencies:
Knowledge of laboratory (soil, plants and water); Good analytical skills,
attention to detail, technical accuracy; Computer literacy; Must be able to plan
to and meet strict deadlines; Ability to work under pressure and follow methods.
DUTIES : Prepare samples for analyses; Perform routine analysis of samples under
mentorship/ supervision of senior personnel; Perform basic maintenance on
selected equipment and instrumentation; Report all faulty equipment and
instrumentation; Maintain tidiness of laboratories; Clean/ sterilize glassware
and equipment; Perform basic maintenance and control functions of lab
equipment and stock; Perform administrative and related functions including
complying with health and safety regulations; Laboratory (soil, plants, water)
analyses; Experience in the research environment.
ENQUIRIES : Annelene Swanepoel Tel No: (021) 808 5320
71
POST 29/93 : AUXILIARY SERVICES OFFICER: RESEARCH: BREEDING/
REPRODUCTION/ ANIMAL HOUSING AND WELFARE (OUDTSHOORN)
REF NO: AGR 58/2025
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 11/NQF Level 3 (equivalent or higher qualification); A minimum of 1 year
of animal handling and management experience. Competencies: Knowledge
of the following: Computer literacy; Technical report writing, Data management;
Interpersonal relationships and communication; Reliability and ability to work
independently; Planning, organising and analytical skills; Problem solving and
innovation; Animal-handling; This will be advantageous: A valid (Code B or
higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
DUTIES : Perform ostrich-specific research activities and associated tasks; Maintenance
of natural resources; Administration; Management of Human Resources;
Technology transfer. An animal production/science related qualification will be
advantageous.
ENQUIRIES : Dr P Muvhali Tel No: (021) 808 5229
DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL AFFAIRS AND SPORT
CLOSING DATE : 08 September 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 29/94 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CENTRAL ORGANISATION REF NO: CAS 35/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Library and Information Services or related qualification; A
minimum of 3 years’ management level experience. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Public Finance Management Act and Supply Chain
Management processes; Library Information Management Systems; Selection,
Cataloguing and Processing of Library Material; Communications and
Marketing; Asset Management; Sita Library Information Management System
(SLIMS); It will be advantageous to have a valid (Code B or higher) driving
licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Skills needed: Proven
computer literacy (MS Office); Communication skills (written and verbal);
Negotiation and Conflict Management; Ability to work independently and as
part of a team.
DUTIES : Responsible for the Library Information Management System (LIMS); Manage
the publication of the Annual Review and the Cape Librarian; Co-ordinate the
selection, acquisitions, cataloguing and processing processes; Responsible for
performance management, recruitment and disciplinary matters of staff in
Central Organisation; Ensure effective supply chain management and financial
management within Programme 3: Library and Archive Services; Asset
management of library material and capital assets; Coordinate general
administrative matters including the fleet and OHSA.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Sani Tel No: (021) 483 2273
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
72
POST 29/95 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RECORDS MANAGEMENT REF NO: CAS
28/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years relevant experience. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Public Service legislation, including POPI, PAIA
and PAJA; Records Management Systems; Electronic Content Management;
Policies and prescripts related to records and knowledge management;
Western Cape ICT Governance Charter; Written and verbal communication
skills.
DUTIES : Develop and maintain departmental physical records system; Provide a
registry service; Develop and maintain electronic content; People
management; It will be advantageous to have experience in ICT Governance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Julie Tel No: (021) 483 3134
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 29/96 : CHIEF LANGUAGE PRACTITIONER (ISIXHOSA): TRANSLATION AND
INTERPRETING SERVICES REF NO: CAS 34/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years appropriate experience. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Profound working knowledge of English and
IsiXhosa; English and IsiXhosa translation and editing of all official documents.
Skills needed: Written and verbal communication in English and isiXhosa;
Language skills; Strong leadership; Proven computer literacy; Strong planning
and organisational skills; Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Ensuring the provision of translation, editing and interpreting services; Quality
assurance of all documents; Render language advisory services; Implement
the necessary policy and procedures with regard to provincial language
services; Develop and record terminology; Compile and maintain databases
relating to language services rendered; Perform administrative tasks; Financial
administration, including procurement and tender processes; Human resource
management; It will be advantageous to have experience in: Editing and
translation of English/IsiXhosa documents; Procurement procedures and
Terminology development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G. Abdullatief at email: Gadija.Abdullatief@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 29/97 : LANGUAGE PRACTITIONER (ISIXHOSA): TRANSLATION AND
INTERPRETING SERVICES REF NO: CAS 33/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1-year relevant work experience. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Profound working knowledge of English and
IsiXhosa; Editing and translation of documents; Editing and translation of
documents; Terminology development. Skills in the following: Excellent written
and verbal communication in English and isiXhosa; Excellent language skills;
Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint etc); Ability
to work independently and as part of a team; Strong planning and
organisational skills.
DUTIES : Render language advisory services; Translate documents in the official
languages; Edit documents; Facilitate provision of interpreting services;
Develop and record terminology; Compile and maintain databases relating to
language matters; Perform administrative tasks; It will advantageous to be well
versed in English and IsiXhosa.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Davidson at Meryl.Davidson@westerncape.gov.za
73
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 29/98 : ARCHIVIST: DIGITISATION OF ARCHIVAL RECORDS REF NO: CAS
29/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Archival studies or with history as a main subject; A valid code
B (or higher) driving licence. Note: People with disabilities that restrict driving
abilities but have reasonable access to transport may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Legislative framework, governing
the public service; Registry duties; Storage and retrieval of archival records;
Procedures in terms of the working environment; Archival Automated retrieval
systems and capturing of meta data; Archival systems and procedures;
Digitisation of Archival records; Archival policies and legislation; It will be
advantageous to have the following experience: Digitising of archival records;
Archival legislation and policies. Skills needed: Proven computer literacy (MS
Office); Written and verbal communication; Teamwork; Writing reports; Ability
to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Scanning of records and maps; Digitisation of archival records; Skills
development and administration; Stored and managed scanned images on
MyContent follow the relevant steps at all times.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Ngobo Tel No: (021) 483 0400
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 29/99 : ARCHIVIST: ELECTRONIC RECORDS MANAGEMENT REF NO: CAS
30/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Information Management Systems or related qualification; A
valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Legislation, policies and
procedures of the Western Cape Archives and Records Service; Public
Management practices in SA and in other countries; Financial Management
and Supply Chain Management Services; Public Service reporting structures;
Strategic planning; Meeting procedures; It will be advantageous to have a Post
Graduate Qualification in Archival Studies. Skills needed: Communication
(written and verbal); Proven computer literacy; Research; Problem solving;
Analytical and strategic thinking; Presentation skills.
DUTIES : Approval of electronic records management systems; Development and
maintenance of electronic records management systems; Audits of electronic
records management systems; Guides and directives: compilation, update and
distribution.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Mazibuko Tel No: (021) 483 0402
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 29/100 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: OFFICE OF THE HEAD OF DEPARTMENT REF
NO: CAS 31/2025
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification) plus an accredited
secretarial diploma and/or administrative qualification on the level of NQF level
5 or relevant higher tertiary qualification; A minimum of 3 years relevant
experience in rendering secretarial/ administrative support services to
management/ senior management. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Relevant legislation, policies, prescripts and procedures; Financial
74
administration; Information systems (LOGIS); Reporting procedures. Skills
needed: Interpersonal relations; Written and verbal communication; Analytical
thinking, Planning and organising, Computer Literacy, Interpreting regulations.
It will be advantageous to have a valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB:
People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable
access to transport, may also apply.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the manager; Provides
support to manager regarding meetings; Studies the relevant Public Service
and departmental prescripts/policies and other documents and ensure that the
application thereof is understood properly; Renders administrative support
services; Supports the manager with the administration of the manager’s
budget.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Burger Tel No: (021) 483 9505
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 29/101 : SCHOOL SPORT COORDINATOR: SCHOOL SPORT REF NO: CAS
36/2025 (X5 POSTS)
(3-Year Contract Position)
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05), plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification); A minimum of 1 year
experience in coaching or administration in at least one of the specific codes:
Aquatics, Gymnastics, Netball and Table Tennis/ Athletics, Basketball, Goalball
and Tennis/ Baseball, Football, Hockey and Softball/ Chess, Cricket, Rugby
and Volleyball/ Kgati, Kho–Kho, Jukskei and Morabaraba. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Recreation-based activities, School Sport activities
and relevant next-level participation, e.g. inter - school participation; Relevant
recreation, school sport, and sport in general policies, rules, and regulations;
National Sport and Recreation Plan; Prescripts surrounding the Public Service,
e.g. Public Service Act & Regulations and Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA); It will be advantageous to have a valid (Code B or higher) driving
licence. Skills needed: Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Project
Management; Presentation; Networking; Written and verbal communication;
Interpersonal; Problem solving and strong ability to handle conflict; Ability to
work under pressure; Proven leadership, managerial, administrative and asset
management skills; Research and inter-sectoral collaboration skills; Ability to
function as a team member; Ability to liaise with personnel at all levels; Possess
presentation skills; Possess decision-making skills; Mediation skills; Be
innovative and creative; Be tactful; and people and performance management
skills.
DUTIES : To support and work closely with federation code specific structures, for the
relevant sport or Indigenous codes to be developed in the following areas: To
link the school sport code specific structures with their respective federation
structure in order: To assist with the implementation of code development for
the relevant priority codes: Ensure that code specific accredited training is
delivered to educators, coaches and volunteers: Manage the collection of
statistics, collate reports, and maintain a database of participants and track
their development; Monitoring and evaluation; It will be advantageous to have
experience managing activities, events, and people.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Meyer Tel No: (021) 483 9530
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 29/102 : SCHOOL SPORT COORDINATOR: RECREATION REF NO: CAS 37/2025
(3-Year Contract Position)
SALARY : R228 321- R268 950 per annum (Level 05), plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification); A minimum of 1 year
experience in coaching or administration in at least one of the specific codes
(Dibeke/IIntonga/Kho-Kho); A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Recreation-based activities,
School Sport activities and relevant next-level participation, e.g. inter - school
75
participation; Relevant recreation, school sport, and sport in general policies,
rules, and regulations; National Sport and Recreation Plan; Prescripts
surrounding the Public Service, e.g. Public Service Act & Regulations and
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA); It will be advantageous to have
experience of managing activities, events and people. Skills needed:
Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Written and verbal communication;
Project Management; Presentation; Networking; Interpersonal; Problem
solving and strong ability to handle conflict; Ability to work under pressure;
Proven leadership, managerial, administrative and asset management skills;
Research and inter-sectoral collaboration skills; Ability to function as a team
member; Ability to liaise with personnel at all levels; Possess presentation
skills; Possess decision-making skills; Mediation skills; Be innovative and
creative; Be tactful; and people and performance management skills.
DUTIES : To support and work closely with federation code specific structures, for the
relevant sport or Indigenous codes to be developed in the following areas: To
link the school sport code specific structures with their respective federation
structure in order: To assist with the implementation of code development for
the relevant priority codes: Ensure that code specific accredited training is
delivered to educators, coaches and volunteers: Manage the collection of
statistics, collate reports, and maintain a database of participants and track
their development; Monitoring and evaluation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Urion Tel No: (021) 483 9629
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 29/103 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: RESEARCH SECTION REF NO: CAS 27/2025
SALARY : R228 321- R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Office Administration and filing; Statistical
proficiency; Information retrieval; Data capturing. Skills needed: Proven
computer literacy (MS Office); Written and verbal communication.
DUTIES : Information management and retrieval; Research and fieldwork; Information
retrieval; Data capturing; Office Administration.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Adonis Tel No: (021) 483 2145/ Neville.adonis@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 29/104 : LIBRARY AID: LIBRARY SERVICE (STELLENBOSCH) REF NO: CAS
32/2025
SALARY : R138 486 - R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (or equivalent qualification). Competencies: A good understanding of
stock, stores, control measures; Computer Literacy; Numeracy; Ability to work
independently and as part of a team; Communication skill (written and verbal);
Interpersonal skills; It will advantageous to a valid (Code B or higher) driving
licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
DUTIES : Processing and handling library stock and equipment; Postage and messenger
tasks; Auxiliary Service.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Booysen Tel No: (021) 483 2332
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
76
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful.
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 08 September 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 29/105 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO: DEDAT
37/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) with
Accounting or Economics as majors; A minimum of 3 years relevant experience
in a financial management environment; A valid (Code B or higher) driving
licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of
the following: Financial norms and standards (Public Finance Managements
Act, National Treasury regulations, Provincial Treasury Directives etc);
Medium-Term Expenditure Framework Budget process and procedures;
Principles and Practices of Financial Accounting; Government Accounting
Standards (GRAP); Economic Reporting Framework including Standards
Charts of Accounts; Government Financial Systems. Skills needed: Proven
computer literacy (MS Office); Written and verbal communication; Numeracy;
Literacy.
DUTIES : Planning – Coordinate, review, analyse and quality assure the financial
supporting information for planning purposes; Budgeting – Coordinate, review,
analyse and quality assure the budget preparation process; Reporting –
Coordinate, review, analyse and quality assure the management accounting
reporting processes; Manage the operational processes, resources and
procedures associated with the management accounting functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R le Breton Tel No: (021) 483 9158 /Robert.lebreton@westerncape.gov.za
POST 29/106 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO: DEDAT
39/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) with
Accounting or Economics as majors; A minimum of 3 years relevant experience
in a financial management environment; A valid (Code B or higher) driving
licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of
the following: Financial norms and standards (Public Finance Managements
Act, National Treasury regulations, Provincial Treasury Directives etc);
Medium-Term Expenditure Framework Budget process and procedures;
Principles and Practices of Financial Accounting; Government Accounting
Standards (GRAP); Economic Reporting Framework including Standards
77
Charts of Accounts; Government Financial Systems. Skills needed: Proven
computer literacy (MS Office); Written and verbal communication; Numeracy;
Literacy.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient operational management of the revenue and expenditure
sub-component; Manage Revenue and Expenditure Portfolio; Committees/
Forums/Working Groups.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R le Breton Tel No: (021) 483 9158 /Robert.lebreton@westerncape.gov.za
POST 29/107 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT PRACTITIONER: SUPPLY CHAIN
MANAGEMENT REF NO: DEDAT 38/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 2 years’ administrative experience in a Supply
Chain Management environment. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Public Finance Management Act; Supply Chain Management; Procurement
prescripts. Skills needed: Communication (written and verbal) skills; Report
writing skills; Proven computer literacy skills (MS Office); Decision making;
Organising and Planning; Problem Solving; Analytical.
DUTIES : Provide the following services: Demand management, Acquisition
management, Contract management, Logistics and payment, File and
database management and general administration.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Malgas Tel No: (021) 483 9148
POST 29/108 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING (X2 POSTS),
REF NO: DEDAT 41/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/ B-Degree (or equivalent qualification)
with Financial Accounting or Economics as a major; A minimum of 1 year
relevant experience required in a Financial Accounting or similar working
environment. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Financial
background (Public Sector Finance recommended; Accounting principles;
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA); National Treasury Regulations
(NTR); Division of Revenue Act; Departmental instructions and delegations;
Basic Accounting Systems; Compilation of Annual Financial Statements; It will
be advantageous to have a financial background in Public Sector Finance;
Prescripts/circulars, legislation and guidelines issued by National / Provincial
Treasury. Skills needed: Analytical thinking; Strategic thinking; Communication
(written and verbal); Computer literacy; Ability to analyse, conceptualise and
implement policy; Presentation; Problem solving; Conflict resolution; People
management; Ability to work under pressure and meet strict deadlines; Ability
to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Control and management of miscellaneous and transfer payments;
Preparation of financial statements and reporting; Collection and recording of
revenue and petty cash control; Management of journals; People
management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Kagee Tel No: (021) 483 0160
POST 29/109 : TRANSPORT OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO: DEDAT
36/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1 year experience in transport administration; A
valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Transport management systems
and government vehicles usage policies; Fleet maintenance and control
procedures; Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulation and
Transport Circulars. Skills needed: Written and verbal communication;
78
Decision-making; Planning, Analytical thinking; Computer literacy (fleet
database, MS Office); Report writing; Organising and co-ordination.
DUTIES : Render advise and administrative support on transport, Coordinate and
facilitate maintenance and servicing of vehicles, Coordinate monthly GMT
invoice payments and Conduct employee supervision.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Hendricks Tel No: (021) 483 9413
POST 29/110 : ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT OFFICER: SKILLS DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
DEDAT 40/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1-year administrative experience. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Provincial and national strategies to address
Sector development; Micro economic development strategy; Relevant software
packages and sound application of relevant computer programmes (i.e. BAS);
Relevant legislation, policies, prescripts and procedures; Financial
administration. Skills needed: Report writing; Organising and planning; Time
management; Accuracy and numeracy; Computer literacy; Communicate
(written and verbally); Content design; Analytical; Monitoring, evaluation and
reporting; Interpersonal; Presentation; Problem Solving; Research.
DUTIES : Render line administrative support services; Co-ordinate monitoring and
evaluation activities and maintain the relevant systems; Provide support to the
Directorate in respect of supply chain management; Render Communication
support for the Chief Directorate; It will be advantageous to have experience in
the skills or education ecosystem.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Parker Tel No: (021) 483 9011
ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS AND DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 08 September 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews
on a date and time as determined by the department. The selection process
will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Should you
experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note that technical
support (challenges with online application) is only available from Monday to
Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries
person as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
OTHER POST
POST 29/111 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER (PRODUCTION LEVEL): ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACT ASSESSMENT REF NO: EADP 18/2025
(12-Month Contract)
SALARY : R343 842 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Environmental Affairs and Development Planning, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year tertiary National Diploma/B-Degree in Environmental
Management, Natural or Environmental Sciences or related field; A valid driving
license (Code B or higher); Registered as a Candidate Environmental
Assessment Practitioner (EAP) or Registered as an EAP with the
Environmental Assessment Practitioners Association of South Africa
(EAPASA): already registered; or meets the requirements for registration and
have either already applied for registration or will by a certain date apply for
registration (appointment will be conditional to actual registration with EAPASA
by a specified date). Competencies: Knowledge in the following: Balanced
environmental knowledge including biophysical knowledge of the functioning
of ecosystems, interactions and other environmental aspects; Methodologies
and techniques for evaluation of environmental impact assessments;
79
Methodologies for the evaluation of environmental management programme
reports, as well as environmental monitoring, audit and ECO reports; Practical
implementation of environmental policies, guidelines, norms and standards;
Environmental management systems; Practical implementation of
environmental legislation, policies, norms and guidelines; Integrated
Environmental Management; EIA process applicable in the Western Cape.
Skills needed: Written and verbal communication; Report writing; Problem
Solving.
DUTIES : Maintain quality and productivity with regards to evaluation of applications in
terms of the relevant environmental legislation; Implementation of the
compliance monitoring and auditing strategy for environmental authorisations;
Maintain quality and productivity with regards to the processing of post-
decision reports and applications, for example, amendment applications,
Environmental Audit reports and ECO reports; Maintain quality and productivity
with regard to provision of comment on assigned non-applications; Leadership
in assigned projects; Qualifications with respect to environmental
management, natural or environmental sciences or related field; It will be
advantageous to have working knowledge and experience in the following:
Review of EIA applications; Integrated Environmental Management, including
applicable legislation and policies; Post-decision requirements(e.g amendment
applications, Environmental Audit reports and ECO reports).
ENQUIRIES : Mr E van Boom Tel No: (021) 483 2877
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the advert for the Post 27/296: Assistant Director:
Quality Improvement and Governance: Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services: Victora Hospital Salary: R468 459 per annum advertised in the Public
Service Vacancy 27 dated 01 August 2025, with reference number: Post
27/296 has been cancelled.
OTHER POSTS
POST 29/112 : CLINICAL MANAGER (MEDICAL) GRADE 1
Central Karoo District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 422 810 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Beaufort West Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPSCA as a Medical Practitioner (independent practice). Experience: A
minimum of 3 years appropriate experience as Medical Officer after registration
with HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
driver’s licence (Code B/EB). Willingness to travel throughout the district.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal relations, leadership and
communication skills (verbal and written). Proven management competencies
in a health environment. Appropriate experience of managing clinical services.
DUTIES : Quality clinical, non-clinical and medico-legal patient care as required by the
various programmes of the Department of Health and Wellness. Supervise-,
Support -, transfer of knowledge to, training- and mentoring of the clinical staff
and auxiliary staff. Provide and efficient administration service regarding all
clinical and non-clinical matters and medico-legal work. Provide guidance and
leadership towards the realisation of strategic goals and objectives of the
division. Ensure a cost-efficient service at clinical level with regards to
laboratory services, blood, medicine, consumables and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Dr AJ Muller Tel No: (023) 414 - 8200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
80
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical assessment. The pool of applications will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Central Karoo District, for a
period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/113 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3: PSYCHIATRY (CHILD AND
ADOLESCENT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Psychiatry. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
(or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign-
qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Grade 3: A minimum
of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with
the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
a foreign-qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to
participate in after-hours duties when required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to clinically assess and management of child and
adolescent mental disorders. Strong record of clinical expertise, clinical
governance, research, teaching and training at under and postgraduate levels.
Excellent managerial, interpersonal, leadership, administrative,
communication, analytical and problem-solving skills. Ability to supervise
clinical training and teaching. Appropriate experience in teaching, training and
supervision of students, Registrars and Medical Staff. Appropriate experience
in delivering clinical services to children and adolescents.
DUTIES : Provide specialist clinical services to inpatients and outpatients, including
outreach services within the hospital catchment area and Ecosystem
Framework. Management of relevant clinical governance and administrative
requirements. Leadership of a multi-disciplinary clinical team. Academic
teaching, training and research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Jacobs Tel No: (021) 370-1314
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted with their job application/on
appointment. This concession is only applicable on health professionals whom
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
The pool of applicants will be considered for similar other vacant posts within
the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services for a period of 3 months from date
of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/114 : SENIOR REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (ENDOCRINOLOGY)
(2 Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 341 855 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
81
Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Internal
Medicine. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Willingness to work after hours. The position will be full- time (40 hours per
week). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills.
Experience in Diabetes and Endocrinology. Previous research experience.
DUTIES : Successful completion of the MPhil (Endo). Successful completion of the Cert
Endo & Metab Phys (SA) which includes all the logbook requirements of the
College of Medicine. Participating fully in all activities of the division.
Conducting research into endocrine disease prevalent in South Africa.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Conradie-Smit Tel No: (021) 938-4400/ or email: marlic@sun.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Appointment
as Senior Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 2 years. It may
become necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during
their period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to
any decision being implemented. Senior Registrars will function across health
facilities, as per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a
student be discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Senior Registrar
also discontinues. Consideration will be given to existing employees who are
already on higher salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as
personal. As such they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as
Senior Registrar will be on contract. Employees in service who opt to continue
with their pension benefits as Senior Registrar, will be required to resign after
completion of their registrar-ship should they not be successful for advertised
Medical Sub-Specialist positions. The Department of Health is guided by the
principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with disability are encouraged to
apply and an indication in this regard will be appreciated. Specific Senior
Registrar posts within the Department will be identified as part of the Affirmative
Action programme to create a representative Specialist cadre in line with
applicable procedures. Preference will be given to SA citizens/permanent
residents with a valid identity document. Senior Registrars will be required to
register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch University according to the
yearbook and guidelines. “Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of
the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration as Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/115 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (CARDIOTHORACIC SURGERY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Cardiothoracic Surgery. Registration with Professional
council: Registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as Medical Specialist in Cardiothoracic Surgery. Experience: Grade
1: None after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Cardiothoracic
Surgery. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience after
registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in
Cardiothoracic Surgery. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience after registration with the HPCSA (Or as recognised foreign Health
Professional council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical
Specialist in Cardiothoracic Surgery. Inherent requirements of the job: Must
participate in commuted overtime at 16-hours per week. Calls include organ
82
donor management, cannulation and management of extracorporeal life
support Valid driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Clinical and
surgical competency in Cardiothoracic Surgery. Able to take overtime calls and
operate independently in both Adult Cardiac and Adult Thoracic Surgery.
Computer literacy and interest in data collection for service improvement.
Insight into challenges of local health care delivery, diversity, transformation
and equity. Experience in supervision and training of staff and students at
under- and post-graduate levels. Experience with teamwork, planning,
organizing and coordination. Excellent interpersonal, administrative,
communication, analytical and problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : Supervision and training of junior surgical staff. Participation in under- and
post-graduate divisional activities. Cardiothoracic surgery specialist clinical
service provision in the Chris Barnard Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery at the
hospitals the division services. Improve professional competence by regular
self-learning and reflection with the application of current evidence.
ENQUIRIES : Prof T Pennel, email: tim.pennell@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/116 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (OBSTETRICS) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Mowbray Maternity Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with Professions Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA-qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign-qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform community
service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign-qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign-qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Must participate in after hour duties including weekends and
public holidays. Appropriate recent experience in obstetrics. Must have
performed > 50 Caesarean Sections independently in the last 3 years.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience and skills in
obstetrics and gynaecology care. Ability to work in a team and with all levels of
staff. Must be able to do a Caesarean section safely and without supervision.
Computer literacy in MS Office mandatory.
83
DUTIES : Clinical triage and management of all non-acute and emergency O&G
presentation to the Labour Suite at Mowbray Maternity Hospital. Managing
critically ill patients including resuscitation. Supervision and teaching of
students, interns and midwives. Provide an efficient administration service
regarding all clinical and non-clinical matters and medico-legal work. Provide
guidance and leadership towards the realization of strategic goals and
objectives of the department. Ensure a cost -efficient service at clinical level
with regards to laboratory services, blood, medicine, consumables and
equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Dr TA Horak Tel No: (021) 659-5579
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
Candidates will be required to submit a logbook outlining their surgical
experience in Obstetrics and Gynaecology. “Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be considered for
other vacant similar posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/117 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Sub-district (Clinics Included)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with Professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as a Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. One-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as a Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
(code B/EB) driver’s licence. Compulsory Commuted Overtime (COT) duties.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge of general medical and
surgical conditions at district hospital and Primary Health Care level and
knowledge applicable to the South African TB and HIV care guidelines.
Comprehensive evidence-based, direct patient-centred Clinical Service
Provision in the sub-district Health Service and computer literacy (MS Excel,
Word, Outlook etc.) and good interpersonal, organizational and teamwork
skills. Competent in performing district level procedures including performance
of caesarian sections, administration of spinal and general anesthesia,
84
management of chronic conditions and HIV/TB care, maternal and child health
as well as emergency medical care including adult and neonatal resuscitations.
Ability and willingness to do outreach services to clinics throughout the
Stellenbosch sub-district, and guiding health care colleagues in managing
difficult district-level cases.
DUTIES : Provide quality care to patients in the Stellenbosch sub-district including
Stellenbosch Hospital and surrounding clinics and healthcare facilities. Provide
Outreach and Support service to PHC facilities in the Stellenbosch sub-district.
Actively participate in skills transfer, training, and academic opportunities
relevant to the post. Active involvement in the clinical governance of
Stellenbosch sub-district facilities as required.
ENQUIRIES : Dr LB Eksteen Tel No: (021) 808-6135
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Stellenbosch Sub-district for a period
of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/118 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (PSYCHIATRY AND MEDICAL
SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Registration with Professions Council: Registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa as a Medical Practitioner. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration as a Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in
respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration
as Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of foreign qualified employees, of who is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 6 years relevant experience after registration as a Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Council in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service
as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years relevant experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to
participate in the commuted overtime system. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to apply the necessary skills,
knowledge and aptitude as a medical officer when rendering services to mental
health care users with intellectual & developmental disabilities and other
mental /psychosocial disabilities. Ability to function as part of a multi-
disciplinary team with good interpersonal, organizational and teamwork skills.
Good communication skills (verbal and written) Computer literacy in MS office
and report writing skills. Ability to manage medical, psychiatric emergencies
and urgent care after hours.
85
DUTIES : Provision of quality comprehensive and holistic medical care to patients in
Alexandra Hospital following a patient centred approach. Clinical
Administration and Medico-Legal matters. Clinical Governance and Quality
Assurance. General administration. Professional development and training.
ENQUIRIES : Dr N Morris Tel No: (021) 503-5006
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.”
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals
who must apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will
be considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/119 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (GENERAL SURGERY)
(5 year contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs). (It will be expected of the successful
candidate to participate in a system of remunerated commuted overtime).
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid
(code B/EB) driver’s licence. Commuted overtime is compulsory. Emergency
and after hour call cover. Each Registrar will be appointed in a specific training
complex but could be required to work across the platform on request.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience as a Medical Officer
in a recognized General Surgical training unit are essential. FCS Primary
Examination passed. Current ATLS certification. FCS Intermediate exam
passed, having done research (and particularly having published), additional
postgraduate qualifications and certificates. Evidence of effective leadership &
interpersonal skills are essential (as per CV and references).
DUTIES : Provision of safe surgical care to patients. Peri-operative care of surgical
patients. Participation in Intensive Care management. Learn the art and
science of general surgery, trauma, and burn care. Attend tutorials and assist
with the training of interns, medical students, nursing staff and paramedics. On-
site after-hours duties relating to care of newly arriving acute patients as well
as inpatients. Involvement in research/audits relating to surgery, trauma, and
burn care.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Brand, email: mbran@sun.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Appointment
as Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 5 years. It may become
necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during their
period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to any
decision being implemented. Registrars will function across health facilities, as
per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a student be
discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Registrar also discontinues.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be
on contract. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension
benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions.
The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this
regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will
86
be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch
University according to the yearbook and guidelines.” “Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview.”
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/120 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY) (X4 POSTS)
(5 Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs).
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley (X2 Posts)
Worcester Regional Hospital (X1 Post)
Paarl Hospital (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirement of the job: Be part of
after-hours roster. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of medicine at
the level of a medical practitioner with FCS primary and Intermediate or
equivalent. Comprehensive surgical competencies in primary, secondary and
some tertiary trauma orthopaedic procedures with an appropriate logbook.
Commitment and dedication to patient care. Physical, mental and
psychological ability to ensure demands of routine and emergency care are
met. Ability to work as a team and lead effectively when required. Good
communication with staff, colleagues and patients. Integrity. Strong ethical
principles and relevant clinical and counselling skills. Computer literacy. FCS
(SA) Part 1 and FCOrth (SA) Intermediate exam. Appropriate experience as an
Orthopaedic Medical Officer, in a fully functional Orthopaedic Unit, under direct
supervision of at least one full time Orthopaedic Specialist. ATLS and Basic
Surgical Principles. Proven research output on an orthopaedic topic or
research methodology courses.
DUTIES : Provision of clinical service delivery at registrar level for Orthopaedic Surgery.
Pre-operative work-up of patients. Intra-operative management of patients.
Post-operative patient care including ICU. Administrative duties. Accurate and
neat record keeping. Active participation in training and research. Effective
supervision of all personnel and subordinates. Function within departmental
norms and standards.
ENQUIRIES : Prof. J Du Toit Tel No: (021) 938-9266
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Appointment
as Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 5 years. It may become
necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during their
period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to any
decision being implemented. Registrars will function across health facilities,
as per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a student be
discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Registrar also discontinues.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be
on contract. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension
benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrar-ship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions.
The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this
regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will
be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch
87
University according to the yearbook and guidelines. “Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or
before the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for a change in
registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/121 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (OBSTETRICS) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Mowbray Maternity Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with Professions Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA-qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign-qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform community
service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign-qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign-qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Must participate in after hour duties including weekends and
public holidays. Appropriate recent experience in obstetrics. Must have
performed > 50 Caesarean Sections independently in the last 3 years.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience and skills in
obstetrics and gynaecology care. Ability to work in a team and with all levels of
staff. Must be able to do a Caesarean section safely and without supervision.
Computer literacy in MS Office mandatory.
DUTIES : Clinical triage and management of all non-acute and emergency O&G
presentation to the Labour Suite at Mowbray Maternity Hospital. Managing
critically ill patients including resuscitation. Supervision and teaching of
students, interns and midwives. Provide an efficient administration service
regarding all clinical and non-clinical matters and medico-legal work. Provide
guidance and leadership towards the realization of strategic goals and
objectives of the department. Ensure a cost -efficient service at clinical level
with regards to laboratory services, blood, medicine, consumables and
equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Dr TA Horak Tel No: (021) 659-5579
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
Candidates will be required to submit a logbook outlining their surgical
experience in Obstetrics and Gynaecology. “Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
88
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be considered for
other vacant similar posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/122 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (UROLOGY) (6/8TH POST)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Service
SALARY : Grade 1: R751 011 per annum
Grade 2: R856 914 per annum
Grade 3: R991 764 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with professions Council: Registration as a
Medical Practitioner with the Health Professions Council of South Africa.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner in respect of South African qualified employees. 1-year relevant
experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of South African qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years relevant
experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of South African qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant
experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Driver’s licence. Willingness to partake
in the Commuted Overtime system. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Relevant appropriate experience within a Urology department. Strong ethical
principles and relevant clinical and counselling skills. Computer literacy. Ability
to successfully run an extremely busy Urology service on a secondary level.
Leadership, interpersonal and organisational skills.
DUTIES : Provision of effective clinical services in the Urology department. Provision of
clinical service delivery at Urology Surgery (regional level). Effective and
efficient urological outpatient services including booking, triaging and follow up
strategies. Supervision of clinical activities in the Urology department. Active
participation in the postgraduate and undergraduate teaching programmes of
the Division of Urology and training and teaching of junior medical staff.
Effective management and administration of a wide range of “Portfolios” and
the development, conducting and supervision of research projects. Research
and Audits on relevant Burden of Disease. Clinical Governance and
administration inherent to the services.
ENQUIRIES : Dr H Bougard Tel No: (021) 402 6444
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals
89
who must apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will
be considered for other similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/123 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Goodwood CDC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Post-basic nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year
accredited with the SANC in Diploma in Clinical Science, Health Assessment,
Treatment and Care. (R48). Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience:
A Minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least
5 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable
experience after obtaining the one-year post-basic qualification in Clinical
Science, Health Assessment, Treatment and Care. Inherent requirement of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to work after hours when
required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal, leadership
and management skills. Ability to direct the team to ensure quality holistic
healthcare and to function independently in a multi-disciplinary team.
Demonstrate an in-depth knowledge of nursing and public service legislation.
Knowledge of Human Resource, Financial and Supply Chain
policies/guidelines & computer literacy (MS Word).
DUTIES : Effective execution and integrated management of all clinical programmes (i.e.
Acute, Chronic, Woman and Child Health and TB/HIV/AIDS/STI). Manage
control and act in facet of Health, Support, Security, Cleaning, Infection control
and Ground services. Effective management of Support Services which
includes Information Management with regards to data collection, verification,
report writing and submission of data, Human Resources (supervision of staff,
employee development, employee relations and performance management
(Finance and Supply Chain). Management of personnel including supervision
and performance management, finances and procurement. Implement
policies, prescripts and protocols regarding the above-mentioned facets within
the parameters of the Ideal Clinic standards. Liaise and communicate
effectively with relevant stakeholders including Facility Committees and
Community Structures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr AE Patientia Tel No: (021) 815-8866
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Metro Health Services, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.” Candidates will be subjected to a practical/oral
assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/124 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR (PREVENTION OF MOTHER-
TO-CHILD TRANSMISSION)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (diploma/degree
in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Registration with Professional council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A minimum of 7 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in the provision of HIV/AIDS and
90
Prevention of Mother-to-Child Transmission (PMTCT) services. Appropriate
experience in HIV and Prevention of Mother-to-Child Transmission (PMTCT)
care. Nurse Initiated Management of Antiretroviral Therapy (NIMART) or
Clinical Initiation Management of Antiretroviral Therapy (CIMART) qualification.
Ability to think strategically and analytically. Ability to provide in-service training
to all levels of staff. Good communication and interpersonal skills. Ability to
analyse Health System Information. Computer literacy (MS Word, PowerPoint
and Excel).
DUTIES : Evaluate Prevention of Mother-to-Child Transmission (PMTCT) systems and
recommend system improvements. Management and oversight of patient care
activities within the facility related to the Prevention of Mother-to-Child
Transmission (PMTCT) programme. Implement Standard Operating
Procedures for: bookings, antenatal follow-up, care and drug delivery intra-
partum. Implement the use of revised obstetric tools that integrate HIV care as
well as Prevention of Mother-to-Child Transmission (PMTCT) records,
including Antiretroviral therapy in antenatal, in labour and to infants. Improve
clinical record keeping, data collection and information flow of Prevention of
Mother-to-Child Transmission activities. Identify gaps in service and plan and
implement quality improvement initiatives on an on-going basis. Effective
communication, supervision, training, performance management and relations
with staff. Policy implementation and quality improvement initiatives in general,
antenatal care as well as in Labour wards.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Basardien Tel No: (021) 402-6485
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/125 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Oudtshoorn Dorp Clinic, Oudtshoorn and Kannaland Sub-districts
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Post-basic qualification, with a duration of at least 1-year, in Curative Skills in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care (R 48)
accredited with the SANC. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience:
Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing
after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification in the specific specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid
(code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to work overtime when necessary and
to work at other clinics in the Sub-district. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good Communication Skills. NIMART training or experience. Problem solving,
report writing, liaison and facilitation skills. Basic computer skills in (i.e. MS
Word, Excel, Outlook).
DUTIES : Assist with the management of the Burden of disease according to the
comprehensive health programmes. Quality of service Plan and implement
Health Promotion and Prevention activities in facility and Community. Link to
the community structures and NPO’s. Collect data and submit reports. Provide
PHC services to the surrounding communities. Assist with the management of
Human Resources, Finance, SCM, Strategy and Health support and
Infrastructure and equipment management under supervision.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NC Jackson Tel No: (044) 203-7205
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
91
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/126 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: TRAUMA AND
EMERGENCY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 (Degree/Diploma in nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with SANC as a Professional
Nurse with Midwife/Accoucheur. A post-basic nursing qualification, with
duration of at least 1 year accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical
Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing: General or Medical and Surgical
Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and Emergency. Registration
with Professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse
and Midwife/Accoucheur. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in
Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing: General or
Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and
Emergency after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant
specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver's licence.
Basic computer literacy skills. Willingness to work shifts and after hours
(weekends, public holidays and night duty). Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Excellent verbal, written communication skills and effective communication,
interpersonal, decision making and conflict resolution skills. Demonstrate an
in-depth understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices in the field of specialty. Ability to promote quality through the
setting, implementation, and the monitoring of nursing standards in the Trauma
and Emergency Centre. Ability to function independently as well as part of a
multi-disciplinary team, good organisational skills and the ability to function
under pressure.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Effective utilization of resources.
Participation in training and research. Provision of Support to Nursing Services.
Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Fritz Tel No: (021) 918-1360
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/127 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: TRAUMA AND
EMERGENCY)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Riversdale Hospital, Hessequa Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational requirements: Basic R425 qualification (i. e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least one year
accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical
92
Care Nursing: General or Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care
Nursing: Trauma and Emergency. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience:
Grade 1: A Minimum of 4 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in General
Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years’ appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific speciality after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic nursing qualification in the relevant speciality as
mentioned above. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Willingness to work shifts, Sundays, public holidays, night shift and
overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practices and how this impact on service delivery. Effective interpersonal,
leadership, organisational, decision making and conflict resolution skills. Be
knowledgeable about South African Triage Scale (SATS) and Emergency
Nursing. Good communication skills. Computer literacy (i.e. MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint and Outlook).
DUTIES : Provide holistic specialized nursing care to patients in a cost-effective manner.
Effective implementation of infection control policies and health and safety
legislation. Assist with managing human and material resources. Maintain a
constructive working relationship with nursing and other stakeholders.
Participate in training, development and research within the nursing
department. Provision of Support to Nursing Services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr NL Mphato Tel No: (028) 713-8656
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in the post-basic qualification in Medical and Surgical Nursing
Science: Critical Care Nursing: General or Medical and Surgical Nursing
Science: Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and Emergency. The pool of applicants
will be considered for similar vacant posts within Garden Route District for a
period of 3 months from the date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/128 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING:
CHILDREN’S WARD)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife/Accoucheur. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at
least 1 year accredited with the SANC in Child Nursing Science. Registration
with Professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse
and Midwife/Accoucheur. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the
specific specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in Child
Nursing Science. Inherent requirement of the job: Computer literacy (i.e.MS
Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Outlook). Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Willingness to work shifts (day and night duty), public holidays, after-hours, and
weekend cover for nursing. Deputising for the Operational Manager: Nursing.
93
Knowledge and insight of all relevant legislation and policies within the public
sector. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practices in the field of speciality. Ability to promote quality through the setting,
implementation, and the monitoring of nursing standards in the Children’s
ward. Ability to function independently as well as part of a multi-disciplinary
team. Effective verbal and written communication, interpersonal, decision
making, and conflict resolution skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Effective utilization of resources.
Participation in training and research. Provision of Support to Nursing Services.
Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Linden-Mars Tel No: (021) 918-1224
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification in Child Nursing Science. “The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Metro Health Services, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.” Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral
assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/129 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in all aspects of supply chain and
financial management. Appropriate management and supervisory experience.
Appropriate LOGIS and BAS experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
Driver’s license. Willingness to work after hours as required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Advanced computer skills including Microsoft office
packages and BAS and LOGIS. Sound knowledge of finance and supply chain
policies, procedures, audit compliance prescripts, PFMA and treasury
regulations. Practical workable knowledge of LOGIS, BAS, AR and Clinicom
and strong managerial and supervisory skills. Ability to work under pressure
and to carry responsibility for a component that includes a 24/7 service
component. Ability to work in a team and excellent communication skills (verbal
and written).
DUTIES : Effectively manage supply chain, revenue, expenditure, patient administration
and information management components of the Stellenbosch sub-district that
includes Stellenbosch Hospital and clinics. Achieve this by developing and
maintaining proper systems to enhance efficiency and compliance. Effective
leadership and management of staff including capacity development. Support
management of the sub-district. Support the Health Facility Board.
ENQUIRIES : Dr ND Blanckenberg Tel No: (021) 808-6100
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be required to a practical test and competency assessment. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within Stellenbosch
Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/130 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
Garden Route District
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
94
CENTRE : Garden Route District Office, George
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National
Diploma/Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Labour Relations in
the Public Sector. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
license and willingness to travel vast distances. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Strong interpersonal and good time management planning
skills. Ability to think analytically and be able to resolve problems. Ability to
negotiate and conciliate. Understanding collective bargaining and dispute
resolution in essential services. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, MS
Outlook, MS Teams and Power point). Good communication skills (verbal and
written).
DUTIES : Support and advice to all staff and supervisors with regards to employee
relations in the Garden Route and Central Karoo Districts. Effective
management of all disciplinary matters and disputes. Monitor and maintain
collective bargaining structures. Provide training with regards to employee
relations for all employees. Provide advice, guidance, and support to
supervisor and the Management team. Coordinate and manage statistics/data
with regards to disciplinary- and grievance procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Joubert Tel No: (044) 803-2700
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Suitable
candidates may be subjected to a competency assessment. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Garden Route
District for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/131 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT (PEOPLE
MANAGEMENT)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Garden Route District Office, George
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate supervisory as well as People Management
Administration experience. Appropriate PERSAL experience. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid code B/EB driver’s license and willingness to
travel. Competencies knowledge/skills): Appropriate knowledge of HR Policies,
procedures and practices. Leadership-, Change Management- and Diversity
Management skills. Proven knowledge of Public Service Regulations,
Prescripts and Acts.
DUTIES : Manage, supervise and co-ordinate the work and responsibilities of People
Management Administration (Personnel Administration) component.
Administer conditions of service, allowances and deductions (housing, medical
aid, leave, pension, overtime, commuted overtime, etc. Ensure compliance
with HR policies and practices. Provide Human Resource Administration
service within District. Provide Professional and Specialized support/advice to
management. Handle all matters related to supervision of component.
Responsible for people administration matters in the Garden Route and Central
Karoo Districts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Joubert Tel No: (044) 803-2700
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Suitable
candidates may be subjected to a competency assessment. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Garden Route
District for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/132 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE ADMINISTRATION
(PERSONNEL PRACTICES)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services (on the premises of Karl Bremer Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National
Diploma\Degree or equivalent NQF6 qualification in the Human Resource
95
related field. Experience: Appropriate experience in Human Resource
Management. Appropriate experience in a supervisory or a managerial position
in Human Resource Management. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Code
B/EB drivers’ licence. Willingness to travel throughout the province, stay
overnight when required and work overtime. Thorough knowledge of the
Departmental policies, prescripts and Acts that govern the functions below.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent written and verbal proficiency.
Ability to function as a team player, with or without supervision. Ability to
function under stressful environment and cope with a heavy workload.
Leadership capabilities, managerial and organisational skills. Ability to manage
conflict and function under pressure. Ability to analyse, interpret and apply
legislation, policies and prescripts. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, Outlook and Internet).
DUTIES : Responsible for the effective management of the APL (including the APL
budget), HR Planning and Job Evaluation processes, Establishment Control,
Recruitment, Selection, Transfer and appointment of staff within the
Compensation management prescripts. Responsible for the effective
management of the Staff Performance Management System and Job
Descriptions in EMS. Conduct training to staff and line mangers and provide
support and guidance within the scope of the above profile. Responsible for
the investigation of grievances/disputes linked to recruitment and selection and
performance management processes. Serve as nodal point for maintaining
and reporting on integrated HR Information (within the scope of profile) to
stakeholders. Effective management and development of sub ordinates and
co-ordinate an equitable workflow.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Meter Tel No: (021) 948 9374 or email: Liesl.Meter@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may undergo a Competency Based Assessment. The pool of applicants will be
considered for other vacant Assistant Director: Human Resource Management
posts within the Chief Director Emergency & Clinical Support Services, for a
period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a
written/practical and oral assessment. Please Note: The People Management
Offices will be relocating onto the premises of Alexandra Hospital.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/133 : QUALITY ASSURANCE COORDINATOR
Cape Winelands District
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Winelands District Office based in Breede Valley Sub District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate four-Year National Diploma/
Degree or equivalent in Health Sciences registerable with a South African
Statutory Health Professions Council or South African Nursing Council.
Experience: Appropriate experience in Quality Assurance (QA). Appropriate
experience in Infection Prevention Control (IPC), Occupation Health and Safety
(OH&S). Experience in Management. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s license and willingness to travel extensively within the
Rural Districts. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to analyze and
interpret Health Systems Information, compile reports and present the data to
direct planning. Knowledge of Project and Financial Management. Good
organizational, interpersonal, creative problem solving and research skills.
Computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook).
DUTIES : Support the Health Establishment staff with the implementation of the Ideal
Clinic Realization and Maintenance (ICRM) and Ideal Hospital requirements in
preparation for the Office of Health Standards Compliance (OHSC). Establish
measures that will ensure health and safety of staff and users and ensure the
maintenance of the Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) standards. Help
build the competency of staff by identifying, planning and addressing Quality
Improvement (QI), Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) and Occupational
Health and Safety training needs and maintaining and updating the Health
Establishment training database. Monitor data quality in the Health
Establishment. Manage service utilization by care coordination to meet the
comprehensive Health needs of the individual client and to ensure quality and
cost-effective outcomes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Van Staden Tel No: (023) 348-1350
96
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test and competency assessment.
The pool of applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within Breede
Valley SD for a period of 3 months from the date of the advert
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/134 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate qualification that allows for
the registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as an Occupational Therapist. Registration with the professional council:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
an Occupational Therapist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational
Therapist. One-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
an Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign-qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational
Therapist. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa as an Occupational Therapist
in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
community service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A Minimum of 20
years relevant experience after registration with the Health Professions Council
of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational Therapist. A minimum of 21 years
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational
Therapist in respect of foreign-qualified employees, of whom it is not required
to perform community service, as required in South Africa. Competencies
(Knowledge/Skills): Foundational to intermediate therapeutic knowledge and
clinical skills in managing paediatric clients across a range of diagnoses and
developmental stages. Flexibility, creativity, and innovation in addressing
varied client and family needs, with the ability to function effectively within an
interdisciplinary team. Sound knowledge of available community-based
resources and appropriate referral pathways, including the ability to integrate
these into discharge planning. Understanding and correct application of
internal protocols and external policies, including Department of Health and
Wellness procedures, ethical guidelines, and HPCSA standards of professional
conduct. Ability to provide mentorship and clinical supervision to occupational
therapy students. Demonstrated experience in working with children with
disabilities in a healthcare setting, ideally within a paediatric or tertiary-level
hospital context. Proficiency in Microsoft Office and basic administrative
systems (e.g., patient records, statistics, reports).
DUTIES : Deliver comprehensive Occupational Therapy services to paediatric clients at
a tertiary level, including assessment, intervention planning, treatment
implementation, rehabilitation, and discharge preparation/implementation.
Facilitate the re-integration of paediatric clients into home, school, and
community environments through caregiver training, school liaison, and
appropriate referrals. Prescribe and provide specialised interventions,
including seating assessments and the provision of assistive devices tailored
to the developmental and functional needs of children. Collaborate actively in
ward rounds, multidisciplinary team discussions, and family meetings to ensure
coordinated, patient-centred care. Maintain accurate and timeous
documentation, including clinical notes, statistics, reports, and referrals, in
accordance with institutional and departmental protocols. Participate in and
support departmental training and development activities, including the
supervision and clinical guidance of occupational therapy students. Contribute
to the effective functioning of the OT department by supporting supervisory
structures and engaging in human and material resource management in line
with HR and institutional prescripts. Participate in departmental quality
improvement initiatives, audits, and ongoing professional development to
maintain high standards of paediatric OT practice.
97
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Pursad Tel No: (021 658-5038 or mereille.pursad@westerncape.gov.za)
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be considered for
other vacant similar posts within the Department of Health & Wellness, for a
period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a
written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/135 : CLINICAL TECHNOLOGIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (PULMONOLOGY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Clinical Technologist in Pulmonology. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Clinical Technologist: Pulmonology.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Clinical
Technologist: Pulmonology in respect of RSA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Clinical
Technologist: Pulmonology in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as a Clinical Technologist: Pulmonology respect of SA qualified
employees. A Minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA as a Clinical Technologist: Pulmonology in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Clinical Technologist:
Pulmonology in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 21 years’
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Clinical
Technologist: Pulmonology in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: After-hour’s service is compulsory.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills (verbal and
written). Ability to work within a group at all levels of authority. Ability to work
under pressure. Capable of maintaining confidentiality. Good computer skills in
MS Word and MS Excel. Knowledge of ventilation and experience in Critical
Care Area.
DUTIES : Perform all diagnostic procedures in Pulmonology and Critical Care. Optimal
Patient Care in Pulmonology able to do following investigations, Spirometry,
Plethysmography, Gas Distribution, Exercise Testing, Compliance, NIOX,
Provocation. Optimal Patient Care in Critical Care able to help with ventilation
and haemodynamic monitoring. Training in Pulmonology according to
ATS/ERS guidelines, Spirometry, Plethysmography, Gas Distribution, Exercise
Testing, Compliance, NIOX, Provocation. Research with GCP.
ENQUIRIES : Mr F Swart Tel No: (021) 938-5789
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
98
as Clinical Technologist: Pulmonology with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/136 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Finance and Supply Chain Management
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National
Diploma/Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Financial
Management and expenditure control. Appropriate supervisory experience.
Appropriate experience in completing and analysing BMI’s. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid drivers’ licence. Willingness to travel.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Organizational, managerial, leadership skills
and an aptitude for working with financial figures. Appropriate knowledge
relevant to supply chain management prescripts, departmental policies,
delegations and procedures. Strong people management and supervisory
skills, ability to work in a team context and motivate team members. Computer
literacy in Microsoft Office. Knowledge of PFMA, Finance instructions,
Provincial and National Treasury regulations, as well as Accounting Officer
System. Good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Budgetary functions within the Chief Directorate: ECSS Sector. Management
of budget, revenue & expenditure monitoring and control within the Chief
Directorate: ECSS Sector. Monitoring and Evaluation, effective and efficient
support to the ASD in financial accounting, including compliance and risk
management within the Chief Directorate: ECSS Sector. People Management
within the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Y Classen Tel No: (021) 815-8738
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant Senior Administrative Officer:
Finance posts within the Chief Director Emergency & Clinical Services Support,
for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a
written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/137 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCES
MANAGEMENT
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Ceres Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma /
Degree. Experience: Appropriate Human Resource Administration experience.
Appropriate supervisory experience. Practical PERSAL experience. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to drive
between the various PHC Clinics in the sub district if required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
GroupWise and PERSAL). Good knowledge and experience in Human
Resource Manage. Ability to provide training. Good interpersonal,
communication, presentation and writing skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for co-ordination, supervision and control of component as well as
support to supervisor. Assist with all transversal personnel practices, including
all employment practices, conditions of service and terminations, SPMS and
establishment within the Sub-district. Responsible for the Human Resource
Development function within the Sub-district which includes the compiling of
the workplace skills plan, training statistics and relevant administrative duties
regarding Human Resource Development. Render a support and advisory
service with regard to personnel administration and human resource
management. Handle Labour Relation issues which include grievances,
dispute resolutions, IMLC matters and the capturing of Labour Relation
information on PERSAL with regard to human resource matters. Provide
training and advice with regard to all relevant HRM policies, legislation,
prescripts and procedure within the Sub-district to ensure the correct
implementation. Monitor compliance to HR policies.
99
ENQUIRIES : Mr WJ Owen Tel No: (023) 316-9601
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within Ceres Hospital for
a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/138 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT (SPMS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National
Diploma/Degree in Human Resources Management. Experience: Appropriate
supervisory experience in Performance management systems. Appropriate
experience in personnel and salary administration. Inherent requirements of
the job: Valid driver's licence (Code B/EB). Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good working knowledge and experience of PERSAL and the relevant
functions. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and
PERSAL). Ability to provide training. Good communication skills (verbal and
written). Sound knowledge of the SPMS, PMDS and OSD prescripts.
Knowledge and experience in doing BAS payments. Knowledge of the PFMA
and debt management and good numeracy skills. Good interpersonal and
conflict resolution skills.
DUTIES : Manage and supervise of the Performance Management component with a
very high workload, which are responsible for all SPMS & PMDS related
matters. Implement and monitor the relevant policies, procedures, prescripts
with regards to SPMS & PMDS Provide assistance to clients, personnel,
management and supervisors. Assist with and provide training and information
sessions with regard to SPMS and PMDS. Provide assistance and secretarial
support to the Pre- and Formal Moderating Committees and advice with regard
to the strategic overview of the performance management process. Assist with
and investigate grievances regarding performance management processes.
Advise and assist with the dealing of poor performances, grade progressions
and pay progressions Act as Systems Administrator of the Performance
Management Information System (PERMIS). Complete ad-hoc tasks, e.g.
answer audit reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Melane Tel No: (021) 938-4138.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates
may be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/139 : SOCIAL WORKER GRADE 1 TO 4
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R325 200 per annum
Grade 2: R397 119 per annum
Grade 3: R477 564 per annum
Grade 4: R585 441 per annum
CENTRE : Helderberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Bachelor’s Degree in Social
Work or equivalent qualification. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP) as Social Worker. Experience: Grade 1: No experience. Grade 2:
A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience in Social Work after registration
as a Social Worker with the South African Council for Social Service
Professions. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate experience in Social
Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions. Grade 4: A minimum of 30 years appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid code (B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to travel. Competencies
(knowledge/ skills): Computer literacy in Microsoft Office package (MS word,
Excel, and PowerPoint) and e-mail (Outlook) Knowledge and insight of relevant
100
legislation and policy related to social work service in the public sector. Good
report writing, interpersonal, leadership and planning skills. Ability to work
independently and within an interdisciplinary team to achieve functional
outcomes for the clients. Knowledge and understanding of illness and disease,
human behaviour, and social systems within a hospital setting.
DUTIES : Provision of comprehensive, client centered clinical social work services in the
hospital setting, with regards to care, support and protection of vulnerable
individuals, groups, families and communities, to ensure safe discharge plans.
Deliver an accountable service through the application of Social Work
administrative processes. Effective networking with the multi-disciplinary team
as well as relevant external role players. Keep up to date with new
developments in social work and welfare fields. Utilize and manage resources.
Support social auxiliary workers and volunteers. Participate in training and
development of staff. Assist with the achievement of the departmental and
organizational goals. Perform all the administrative functions required of the
job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Vlok Tel No: (021) 850-4702
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral
assessment. No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This
concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the first
time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.The pool of
applicants will be considered for other Social Worker posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/140 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES (LINEN
MANAGEMENT)
Directorate: Facilities Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (Sub-directorate: Laundry Services)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Senior Certificate/Grade 12
qualification. Experience: Appropriate supervisory experience and experience
in the laundry and linen environment. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Travelling within the Western Cape. Willingness
to work long hours sometimes. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent
verbal and writing communication skills. Motivational and leadership skills.
Sound knowledge of Linen management. Sound knowledge and
understanding of the Public Finance Management Act and Public. Procurement
procedures.
DUTIES : Training and mentorship of laundry and linen management staff. Investigating
claims for loss or damage to linen. Management of inventories for linen stock
and Provincial Linen Depot. Collect, maintain and analyse data for all records
necessary for linen accountability and security, including statistical preparation
reports. Manage the Limiting Bid Linen Contract and ordering linen items.
Human Resource Management. Provide relief duties as Acting Control Laundry
Manager in the Linen Management Services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J van der Riel Tel No: (021) 918-1626
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/141 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Ceres Hospital
101
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Human Resources (i.e. Salary
Administration, Service Conditions, Personnel Management, PERSAL and
Recruitment and Selection). Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s license and willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): In-
depth knowledge and experience of the Recruitment and Selection Policies
and Procedures in the Public Service. Strong analytical and strategic thinking
abilities. Computer skills in MS Office (i.e. Word, Excel, PowerPoint and
Outlook). Good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Administer and ensure effective and efficient implementation of HRM policies,
prescripts, approval of PERSAL transactions with regards to Personnel
provisioning, Personnel and Salary administration. Assist with the
administration of OSD and Grade Progression. Maintain an effective and
efficient Recruitment and Selection service. Provide an effective support
function to manager and personnel. Supervise Administration Clerks to ensure
effective functioning of the Personnel Administration Section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr WJ Owen, Tel No: (023) 316-9601
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Ceres Hospital for a period of 3
months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/142 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3: GENERAL (WARD 19 & 10 AND
WARD 5 & 6) (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse with Psychiatry. Registration with
Professional council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse and
Psychiatry. Experience: Grade 1: None Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as a
Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as a
Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirement of the job:
Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty, weekends and public holidays to
meet the operational requirements. Prepared to work in all departments/wards
according to the operational needs of the hospital. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge and understanding of nursing care processes,
procedures, statuses, and other relevant legal and ethical practices. Computer
literacy: MS Office, MS Outlook. Good Communication Skills. Report Writing.
Appropriate experience in comprehensive nursing treatment and care to
patients in a Mental Health Unit.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic nursing care with set standards and within a
professional/legal framework. Effective utilisation of resources. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development. Provision of
Support to Nursing Services. Participation in training and research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JE Isaacs Tel No: (021) 503-5000
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
“Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.”
This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for a change in registration status)”. The
102
pool of applicants will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided
that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/143 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING) (X3
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Wesfleur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
Minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing Grade 3:
A Minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent
requirements of the job: Good verbal and written communication skills.
Required to work shifts and after hours (weekend, public holidays, and night
duty). Willingness to rotate within the institution. Computer literacy.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to function/make decisions
independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good communication,
interpersonal relationships, exceptional leadership and conflict resolution skills.
Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook. Knowledge of relevant
legislation and policies of the Department of Health Western Cape.
DUTIES : Provide optimal, holistic nursing care within set standards and
professional/legal framework. Assist with management of people management
services within the Department and compliance to professional, legal, and
ethical regulations governing nursing practice. Effective utilization of financial
and physical resources within the department. Ensure the promotion of Quality
Assurance, Infection Control and Prevention & Occupational Health & Safety
within the Department. Deliver a support service to the Operational Manager,
whilst maintaining professional growth and ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LA Abrahams Tel No: (021) 816-500, Email: Lee-
Anne.Abrahams@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration with the
SANC after obtaining their qualification. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Wesfleur Hospital for a period of 3
months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/144 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A TO C (TECHNICAL SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services.
SALARY : Grade A: R243 597 per annum
Grade B: R285 816 per annum
Grade C: R332 061 per annum
CENTRE : Wesfleur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational requirement: Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in a trade
relevant to Electrical, Building, Equipment & Infrastructure Construction &
Maintenance (including general fault-finding & repair). Experience: Grade A:
No experience required. Grade B: At least 18 years’ appropriate/recognizable
103
experience in the area after obtaining the relevant Trade Test certificate. Grade
C: At least 34 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in the area after
obtaining the relevant Trade Test certificate. Inherent requirements of the job:
Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Physically fit to perform duties and work at
heights and in confined spaces. Work overtime should the need arise, day or
night, and perform standby duties. Willingness to travel and work at all Public
Health Institutions within the Atlantis area. Willingness to perform over a
spectrum of technical trades and continual training in these. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): A practical, working knowledge of the requirements of the
Machinery, and Occupational Health and Safety Act (Act 85). Able to interpret
and apply regulations. A practical, working knowledge of the working principle,
parts and assembly, testing, routine & breakdown maintenance of the following:
Domestic & light commercial laundry & kitchen equipment, access control,
basic building terminology and construction, Hospital technical systems &
plant, HVAC equipment, Welding & Plumbing skills (Demonstrable). Good
communication skills. Demonstrable computer literacy in at least Ms Word and
Excel (able to create and edit basic documents), efficiently use an email
program and internet browser.
DUTIES : Repairs of equipment, reticulations and plant. Plan and design basic new
installations and perform alterations Do installations of systems and
equipment. Perform preventative maintenance tasks on equipment. Mentor
other technical staff. Perform administrative and related functions regarding the
workshop. Control over equipment, tools, plan and materials. Supervise and
manage the workshop and staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Cupido Tel No: (021) 816-8575, Email:
Ricardo.Cupido@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. All shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/145 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Revenue and or Billing in a Healthcare environment. Inherent requirement of
the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of Clinicom and Billing systems, Basic Accounting System (BAS),
Account Receivable System (AR) and EDI (Electronic Data Interchange).
Computer literacy in MS Office (Excel Spreadsheets, Microsoft Word, and web-
based programs (medical aids). Cashiers’ knowledge and access. Excellent
communication skills, conflict management, interpersonal and leadership skills.
DUTIES : Render admin support to Case Manager. Assist with MediKredit EDI rejection
reports. Allocate all payments to patient accounts and follow up of short/non-
payments. Daily monitoring and management of Disposals and Attendance on
Clinicom. Control of receipt and depositing of state monies, physically as well
as on BAS. Complete all HIS (Clinicom / AR) transactions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Mdodeni Tel No: (021) 370-1125
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The
pool of applicants will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from the
date of the advert.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/146 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HRM (PEOPLE MANAGEMENT)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
104
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent)
Experience: Appropriate experience in PERSAL and Human Resource
Management functions. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid code B/EB
driver’s license. Willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
computer literacy (MS Word, advanced Excel and PowerPoint), mathematical
and communication skills. Good interpersonal skills and the ability to function
as a team player, with and without supervision. Exercise good judgment in
safeguarding confidential or sensitive information. Ability to function in a
stressful environment, cope with a heavy workload and meet deadlines.
Appropriate planning, prioritization, organization and administrative skills.
Knowledge of People Management Legislation and Policies in the Public
Service.
DUTIES : Effective and timeous performance of all personnel matters, such as pension-
, service termination-, leave-, allowances-, service benefits- and debt
management administration. Ensure correct application of People
Management Policies and audit compliance. Assist with all other administrative
functions in the personnel component, as per request. Maintain effective record
keeping. Assist staff, colleagues, supervisors, management and members of
the public with regards to all Human Resources and Personnel matters. Handle
a variety of personnel, written and telephonic enquiries. Provide and ensure
effective support to relevant line management within the component and
colleagues.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Acker Tel No: (021) 944-9200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates could be expected to undergo a practical assessment. As directed
by the Department of Public Service and Administration, applicants must note
that further checks will be conducted once they are shortlisted and that their
appointment is subject to positive outcomes on these checks, which include
security clearance, qualification, verification, criminal records and previous
employment.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/147 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (LINEN MANAGEMENT)
Directorate: Facilities Management
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town, (Sub-directorate: Laundry Services)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
experience/competencies that focuses on the Key Performance Areas (KRA’s)
of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in general office administration
functions. Appropriate experience in the accurate counting and auditing.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid EB drivers’ licence. Willingness
travelling away from home. Willingness to work long hours sometimes.
Industrial Laundry and linen management experience essential. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in MS Word and Excel. Good written and
communication skills. Ability to work under pressure and to meet deadlines.
Knowledge of the Western Cape linen management and Control Policy.
DUTIES : Conduct regular linen audits at hospitals and health institutions with-in the
Western Cape Province. Administrative functions – compile linen shortage and
surplus reports, Update linen inventories of facilities. Provisioning
administration Assist with ordering and control of linen stocks and other office
related requirements/materials. Contact functions -Liaise with the laundries
and institutions to ensure effective linen control.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J van der Riel Tel No: (021) 918-1626
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/148 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT
Chief Directorate: Metro Heath Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Oral Health Centre, Tygerberg/Mitchell’s Plain
105
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administrative support services experience.
Appropriate experience within a Quality Assurance Department/Unit.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (Microsoft Office,
SINJANI, Ideal Clinic and typing proficiency). Good planning, organisational,
and data management skills.
DUTIES : Effectively provide office and administrative support services to Quality
Assurance Department. Capture all required data and maintain relevant
statistical data. Provide meeting secretarial support to relevant components.
Assist with Complaint, Compliment, and Suggestion management. Assist with
relevant surveys, audits and awareness campaigns.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Hopp-Abrahams Tel No: (021) 937 3197
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The
pool of applicants will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/149 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Employee Relations
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in labour relations. Inherent requirement
of the job: Valid Code (B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to travel.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic knowledge in administrative support
services within the Public or Private Sector. Knowledge of Labour Relations
with specific reference to rendering administrative support services.
Knowledge of legislative framework governing labour law. Computer Literacy
in MS Office Skills.
DUTIES : Effective administrative support to the Deputy Directors and specific sub-
directorates by assisting with diary management, responding to both internal
and external stakeholders and filing of documentation both electronically and
in hard cover files. Effective administrative support to specific sub-directorates
with regards submission management and maintenance of relevant databases
thereof. Provide administrative support regarding meetings, workshops and
training activities Assist with accommodation and traveling arrangements.
Assist with LOGIS capturing.
ENQUIRIES : Mr F van Rooyen Tel No: (021)831-5855, Mr M Ngqama Tel No: (021)831-5864
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/150 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Scottsdene Community Day Centre, Northern/Tygerberg Substructure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience inpatient admissions and help desk
environment. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Primary Health
Care Information System/Clinicom, Hospital Emergency Centre Tracking
Information System, Tier.net. Knowledge of the PFMA and responsibilities
linked to finance management. Knowledge of filing, archiving and disposal
process of records.
DUTIES : Admissions of clients in different departments, opening new folders, merging
of folders, filing, archiving and disposal of folders. Accomplish key tasks in a
competent and acceptable manner, adhere to sound professional behaviour
and dress code. Ensure accurate and daily capturing on
PHCIS/Tier.net/relevant electronics systems. Ensure clients are admitted
according to the appointment system, assist with queue marshalling. Ensure
106
good client relation strategies to minimize complaints. Ensure effective and
efficient implementation of all applicable policies, procedures and instructions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Mullins Tel No: (021) 810- 8121
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant similar posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a practical/oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/151 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: LABOUR RELATIONS (HRM)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in the Labour Relations environment.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good written and verbal communication
skills. Computer literate (MS Office package, e-mail and internet). Ability to
function under stressful environment and cope with heavy workload. Ability to
function as a team player, with or without supervision. Ability to interpret and
apply policies. Knowledge of the Legislative framework.
DUTIES : General secretarial and administrative duties including typing, filing, answering
of telephone and labour relations enquiries. Effective assistance with co-
ordination of meetings. Effective assistance with the co-ordination of training.
Facilitation of disciplinary hearings. Optimal administration of Labour Relations
records, statistics and in-service training.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Boezak Tel No: (021) 938-5184
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/152 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Klipfontein/Mitchell’s Plain Sub-structure Office (X2 Posts)
Mitchells Plain Community Health Centre (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Information Management.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint and Access). Understand the Ditcom process. Knowledge and
experience in departmental systems, i.e. Health Information Systems, Sinjani
etc.
DUTIES : Data Collection, Collation, Capturing & Reporting. Perform administrative role
as a member of the Information Management team. Office administration (filing
process, telephone and letters etc). Assist with data management quality
monitoring. Interpret and analyse data trends. Participate in health information
co-ordinating activities. Maintain data retrieval efficiency.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Jaars Tel No: (021) 370-5123
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/153 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (X2 POSTS)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Barrydale CC (X1 Post)
Bredasdorp CDC (X1 Post)
107
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as Staff Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as a Staff Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB
driver’s license and willingness to travel within the sub district. Willingness to
support and to work at other clinics within the Sub-District, as well as on the
Mobile Clinic. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to function/make
decisions independently and as part of multi-disciplinary team. Good
communication and interpersonal relationships. Basic Computer skills in MS
Word and Outlook. Knowledge of relevant nursing legislation, policies and
protocols of the Department of Health and Wellness, Western Cape.
DUTIES : Provide basic clinical nursing care. Development and implementation of basic
patient care plans. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms GJ Van der Westhuizen Tel No: (028) 514-8400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be required to undergo a practical assessment. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Overberg District for a period of
3 months from date of advert.”
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/154 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT (TECHNICAL SERVICES)
Overberg District
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Caledon Hospital, Theewaterskloof Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate experience of facility maintenance, welding and plumbing with
general electrical knowledge. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s license. Must be prepared to work overtime as requested. Must
be physically able to perform the duties required. Must be able to work on
heights, i.e. on ladders and scaffolding. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of and apply the requirements of the Machinery and Occupational
Health and Safety Act, as well as read, write and follow written instructions
including manuals and written procedures. Ability to optimally utilise allocated
resources such as tools and materials and be skilled in the usage of a variety
of tools. Ability to work independently and as part of a team. Ability to adhere
to safety standards. Ability to use a conventional lathe or milling machine.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient assistance with maintenance and repairs of plumbing
components, including projects, installations and alterations, as well as minor
maintenance on buildings and facility grounds which include, Welding work as
required. Unblocking of sewer lines and toilets. Unblocking basin Geyser
installation Assist and perform preventative maintenance on plant and
equipment. Efficient and effective stock control. Efficient and effective control
over equipment, tools and working area. An effectively supported HR function.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Fudu Tel No: (028) 212-1070
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Overberg District for a period of 3
months from the date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
108
POST 29/155 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT (TECHNICAL SERVICES) (CARPENTRY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational requirements: Grade 10 (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate experience of maintenance and repairs of electrical components.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Must be
prepared to work overtime as requested. Must be physically able to perform
the duties required. Must be able to work on hights i.e. on ladders and
scaffolding. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of and apply the
requirements of the Machinery and Occupational Health and Safety Act, as well
as read, write and follow written instructions including manuals and written
procedures. Ability to optimally utilise allocated resources such as tools and
materials and be skilled in the usage of a variety of tools. Ability to work
independently and as part of a team. Ability to adhere to safety standards.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient assistance with maintenance and repairs of carpentry
fixtures and components, including projects, installations and alterations, as
well as minor maintenance on buildings and facility grounds which include
painting and tiling work. Assist and perform preventative maintenance on plant
and equipment. Efficient and effective stock control. Efficient and effective
control over equipment, tools and working area. An effectively supported HR
function.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C van der Westhuizen Tel No: (023) 348-1199
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. “The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within George Regional Hospital for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.”
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/156 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (X19 POSTS) (VARIOUS
COMPONENTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing
Assistant. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC
as Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the
SANC as Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the SANC
as Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work
shifts, public holidays, after-hours, night duty and weekend cover.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work independently and under
pressure. Good communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide quality basic nursing care according to procedures and policy. Assist
patients with activities of daily living which includes patient hygiene, nutritional
status, mobility and elimination needs. Escort patient to and from x-rays, sonar,
etc. Assist professional nurses with clinical procedures and preparation of
patients for diagnostic and surgical procedures. Accurate recordkeeping and
effective utilization of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Baartman Tel No: (021) 938-4055
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
109
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the South African Nursing Council (including individuals who
must apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/157 : TRADESMAN AID
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Drakenstein Sub-district, Paarl
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate tradesman experience in (wood, metal and other materials,
plumbing, electrical, Inherent requirement of the job: Ability and willingness to
do standby duties and work overtime. Must be physically able to perform duties
as required. Willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
interpersonal skills Ability to handle tools, parts and materials Knowledge of
Occupational Health and Safety.
DUTIES : Assist Artisan and Handymen in the execution of their respective duties. Assist
with repairs and emergency breakdowns (including after hour’s repairs).
Cleaning of specific equipment including management of Medical Gas.
Undertake a variety of other general duties such as the physical movement of
goods and equipment. Clean workshop and assist with repairs and
maintenance functions effectively Assist with the checking of maintenance and
repairs of all equipment and furniture.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Adams Tel No: (021) 877-6400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Drakenstein Sub District for a period
of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/158 : DRIVER (LIGHT DUTY VEHICLE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha Eastern Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills.
Experience: Appropriate driving experience. Inherent requirements of the job:
Valid code (B/EB) driver’s licence. Valid Public Driving Permit (PDP).
Willingness to work overtime and to perform standby duties. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to communicate in at least two of the three official
languages of the Western Cape. The ability to accept accountability,
responsibility to work independently and good interpersonal skills. Knowledge
of Transport Regulations and Circular no 4 of 2000. Knowledge of routine,
maintenance, Inspections for defects on vehicles and safe driving skills.
DUTIES : Ensure an efficient and effective transport service for Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub
Structure Office. Conduct routine maintenance, inspecting GG vehicles and
timely reporting of defects. Ensure an effective daily transport administration
and support to Supervisor. Ensure vehicles are kept clean and tidy. Perform
administrative and relieve duties when required or necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Frank-Hoosen Tel No: (021) 360-4716
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be required to undertake a pre-entry assessment test/practical assessment
and formal interview.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/159 : GENERAL WORKER STORES (LINEN STORES ASSISTANT) (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Facilities Management
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town, (Sub-directorate: Laundry Services)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience:
Appropriate stores and laundry/linen experience. Inherent requirement of the
110
job: Medically fit to lift and carry heavy bags. Competencies knowledge/skills):
Excellent verbal and writing communication skills. Good writing skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Loading and offloading stock/linen on trucks, vans
and shelves. Transport goods and linen to and from the floor. Receive and
dispatch of linen/stock to facilities. Packing, stacking and racking of linen and
stock. Housekeeping and General Hygiene cleaning.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J van der Riel Tel No: (021) 918-1626
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/160 : HOUSEHOLD AID
West Coast District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Vredenburg Hospital, Saldanha Bay Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience:
Appropriate cleaning experience in a hospital environment. Inherent
requirement of the job: Ability to do physical hard work and stand for long hours.
Willingness to relieve in other departments when required. Willingness to work
shifts, weekends, night-duty, and overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good interpersonal skills. Good verbal, as well as written communication skills
Appropriate knowledge with the use of the cleaning equipment, cleaning
materials and cleaning detergents and stock.
DUTIES : Oversee general cleaning tasks to ensure clean and hygienic environment that
complies with hygienic, occupational health and safety and infection control
and prevention standards. Execute household tasks in respect of food
services. Effectively manage ordering, utilization, control of cleaning,
household items, linen, and stock Render support services to nursing via OPM
and contribute to domestic outcomes being met. Effective and efficient waste
management Maintain professional growth, ethical standards, and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Lester Tel No: (022) 709-7257
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/161 : FOOD SERVICE AID
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills.
Experience: Appropriate experience in a large-scale Industrial Food Service
Unit. Inherent requirement of the job: Ability to work in large scale freezers and
cold rooms. Physically fit to lift heavy objects and be on your feet the entire
day. Willingness to work shifts, weekends and public holidays as required by
operational needs. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and
understanding of the basic food groups and cooking methods. Knowledge of
the Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) principles. Knowledge of
Occupational, Health and Safety principles and measures. Knowledge of Milk
Kitchen Operation, Feed Production and storage.
DUTIES : Prepare, cook and plate meals for the patients. Clean and maintain the kitchen
area and equipment and maintain hygiene standards. Follow the Clean-as-
you-go principle. Maintain and report broken and faulty apparatus and
equipment. Responsible for preparing food according to standardised recipes.
Work alternative days in the Milk Kitchen as needed. Assist with the in-service
training of new workers or colleagues. Support to Supervisor when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Vermeulen Tel No: (021) 402-6224
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The
pool of applicants will be considered for other similar vacant posts within the
111
Chief Director: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/162 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (SURGERY) (10 SESSIONS PER
WEEK)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(Contract until 31 March 2027)
SALARY : Grade 1: R646 per hour
Grade 2: R737 per hour
Grade 3: R853 per hour
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Surgery. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Surgery. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Surgery. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees) as Medical
Specialist in Surgery. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience
as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employee) as a
Medical Specialist in Surgery. Inherent requirements of the job: Must be willing
to work sessional hours after hours, including weekends and public holidays.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in general surgery.
Appropriate experience in emergency upper-Gastrointestinal endoscopy and
management of upper-GI bleeding. Ability to work in a team and with all levels
of staff. Interest in developing an academic career.
DUTIES : Management and communication to appropriately triaged & efficient running of
theatre lists. Requirements to complete statistics collection. Completion of
medicolegal documents. Participation in research, audits and quality
improvement programs. To deliver comprehensive after-hours emergency
/urgent surgical services to patients in theatre, GIT unit, surgical wards, and
emergency centre at Victoria Hospital. The aim is to deliver safe, cost-effective
and high-quality care at all times and promote comprehensive peri-operative
care of patients in the discipline of general surgery. This would include the
following roles: Pre-operative assessment and resuscitation of surgical patient
and planning appropriate operative management. Emergency/urgent & trauma
surgical procedures. Competency & proficiency in emergency UGI endoscopy
& management of UGI bleeding. Post-operative assessment & care, with
appropriate investigation & management of possible complications. Teaching
and training of intern.
ENQUIRIES : Dr J. Plaskett Tel No: (021) 799-1200, email:
Jeremy.Plaskett@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
POST 29/163 : RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 TO 3 (ULTRASOUND) (20 SESSIONS)
(Contract Until 31 March 2026)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R262 per hour
Grade 2: R306 per hour
Grade 3: R358 per hour
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Hospital
112
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in
Ultrasound Radiography. Registration with Professional council: Registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Radiographer in Ultrasound. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with
the HPCSA in Ultrasound Radiography in respect of RSA-qualified employees.
One-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA in Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of RSA-qualified employees.
Minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it
is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA in Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of RSA-qualified employees.
Minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it
is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirement of the job: A valid driver’s licence and willingness to travel
within the Sub District. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in
word processing, data management and analysis. Ability to use or learn to use
systems eg clinicom, PHCIS Ability to work independently and in a team with
good interpersonal skills. Thorough knowledge of ante-natal-, ante-natal
Doppler-, paediatric-, gynaecology- and abdominal- ultrasound studies.
Completion of supplementary courses in diagnostic ultrasound and knowledge
and interest in teaching in Obstetrics and Gynaecology at both undergraduate
and post-graduate level.
DUTIES : Provide a comprehensive diagnostic ultrasound service at an advanced level
with the main focus on Obstetrics and Gynaecology (O&G) imaging in
Stellenbosch Hospital. But including abdominal and other studies. Outreach
sonography services to clinics in the ecosystem and district as requested.
General care of patients as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Effective
administration within the ultrasound unit regarding patient service, appropriate
referral as well as equipment management. Maintain case records and
statistics. Supervise, train and assess colleagues eg midwives, doctors,
radiographers. Actively take part in CPD- program, as learner as well as In-
service training.
ENQUIRIES : Dr ND Blanckenberg Tel No: (021) 808-6106
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Stellenbosch Hospital for a period of
3 months from date of advert.”
CLOSING DATE : 29 August 2025
DEPARTMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
CLOSING DATE : 08 September 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
113
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 29/164 : CANDIDATE ENGINEER (STRUCTURES ENGINEERING): CANDIDATE
PROGRAMME AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DOI
117/2025
(2-Year Contract Period)
SALARY : R761 157 per annum, all-inclusive salary package, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Engineering Degree (B Eng/BSC (Eng)) or relevant qualification; Registration
with ECSA as a Candidate Engineer is compulsory upon appointment; A valid
driving licence. Competencies: Working knowledge of the following: Legal
compliance; Structural engineering design and analysis of road structures
infrastructure is essential; Experience in hydrology and hydraulic engineering
will be favourable; Working knowledge of Computer-Aided Design Software
(AutoCAD or Open Roads; Project management skills; Proven problem solving
and analysis skills; Research and development skills; Computer literacy
(relevant engineering software packages); Ability to draft complex technical
reports, memorandums and submissions; Written and verbal communication
skills.
DUTIES : Design new systems to solve practical engineering problems (challenges) and
improve efficiency and safety: Planning, designing, operating and maintenance
of engineering projects; Development of cost effective solutions according to
standards; Evaluation of existing technical manuals, standard drawings and
procedures to incorporate new technology; Training and development of
technicians and technologists; Promote safety in line with statutory and
regulatory requirements; Office Administration: Prepare inputs for the
facilitation of resource utilisation; Adhere to regulations and procedures for
Supply Chain Management (SCM) and HR administration; Report on service
delivery; Research and development: Keep up with new technologies and
procedures; Research/literature studies on engineering technology to improve
expertise; Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on engineering-related matters;
Follow approved programme of development for registration purposes. The
following will be advantageous: Experience in road infrastructure structure
projects. Mature candidate engineer. Completed ECSA Group A Outcomes
(Description to be provided in CV).
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Hendrickse Tel No: (021) 483 3107
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 29/165 : CONTROL WORKS INSPECTOR: TECHNICAL SERVICES- HEALTH REF
NO: DOI 120/2025
SALARY : R582 444 - R686 091 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma (T/N/S stream) or equivalent qualification in Mechanical
Engineering; Or A N3 and a passed trade test in the built environment; Or
Registration as an Engineering Technician; A minimum of 6 years appropriate
management experience; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Building contract documentation
and administration; Act/regulations of Occupation Health & Safety (OHS-Act);
National Building Regulation; Relevant built environment legislation;
Programme and project management; Research; Planning procedures;
Financial management; Formulation of policies in a multi-disciplinary
professional environment; Skills needed: Proven computer literacy (MS Office);
Administrative ability and record keeping; Communication (written and verbal);
Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines; Conflict management; Able
to work in a team.
DUTIES : Manage the process for the identification of needs, new services and
requirements for minor new work and repairs to existing work by ensuring that
customer complaints are investigated and follow-up; Facilitate, co-ordinate and
control the implementation of new works, repair and renovation and
maintenance, through inter alia the following; Ensure that the relevant project
114
documentation for new and existing structures is compiled, through inter alia
the following; Manage the activities of contractors and consultants through inter
alia the following; Gather and submit information in terms of the extended
public works programme; Supervise the performance and conduct of
subordinates through inter alia.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E du Plooy at Etienne.duPlooy@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 29/166 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LOGISTICS REF NO: DOI 115/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in Financial
Accounting, Supply Chain Management, Commerce or related field; A
minimum of 3 years relevant logistic management experience at supervisory
level. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Accounting; Public Finance
Management Act; Logistic Information System (LOGIS); Asset Management;
Proven computer literacy (MS Excel); Written and verbal communication skills.
DUTIES : Implement a Logistics management system for an effective bid/quotation
process and the maintenance thereof in accordance with departmental policies
and procedures and compliance with applicable legislation; Implement an
effective and efficient logistics function compliant with departmental policies
and procedures and applicable legislative requirements, including, ordering,
receiving and distribution of goods, management of inventory, warehousing
and accounts payable system; Implement an approved and appropriate
disposal plan developed and implemented in accordance with departmental
policies and procedures and compliant with applicable legislative requirements
including the identification of redundant, obsolete and unserviceable goods,
disposal of goods in accordance with the disposal plan, accurate recording of
the disposals and appropriate reporting; Effectively utilise LOGIS for
provisioning, stock control and reporting in compliance with user and legislative
requirements; Effectively utilise Vulindlela as a management information
system to monitor and report on revenue; Ensure compliance with relevant
legislative, statutory, regulatory and supervisory requirements towards the
achievement of component projects and goals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Amsterdam Tel No: (021) 483 8259
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 29/167 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: BUDGET REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE REF NO:
DOI 114/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1-year relevant experience in management
accounting. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Business and
organizational structure of the department; Applicable legislative and
regulatory requirements, policies and standards; Management
Accounting/Financial accounting, Infrastructure reporting processes,
particularly the Infrastructure Reporting Model (IRM) and its integration with
financial systems such as BAS, LOGIS and SCOA; Database management
and data quality assurance; Intermediate or advanced knowledge of MS Excel.
Skills needed: Monitoring and evaluation methods, tools and techniques;
Verbal and written communication skills; Ability to work under pressure and
meet deadlines; Analytical, planning and organising skills; Reliable, self-
disciplined and dedicated.
DUTIES : Monitor revenue and expenditure; Assist with monthly, quarterly and annual
reporting – IYM, conditional grants, earmarked funds, annual report and the
infrastructure Reporting Model (IRM); Maintain accurate, timely and compliant
reporting of infrastructure project data on the IRM system in line with National
Treasury requirements; Reconcile IRM-reported expenditure with BAS and
LOGIS, ensuring alignment with SCOA classification; Assist in adjustment
budget and annual budget process; Assist with the prevention of unauthorized
115
expenditure, under-spending and over-spending; Evaluate and make
recommendations on submissions with financial implications to the relevant
manager and programme manager. Experience in an infrastructure/project
environment would be advantageous.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Samodien Tel No: (021) 483 2204
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 29/168 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: TECHNICAL ADMINISTRATION: HEALTH
INFRASTRUCTURE (X2 POSTS), REF NO: DOI 33/2025 R1
SALARY : R228 321- R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies: A
good understanding of the following: Administration rules and regulations;
Departmental information systems (BAS, BIZ Project, MyContent, SITS); Skills
needed: Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel); Meet deadlines; Record
keeping; Written and verbal communication; Ability to work under pressure;
Ability to work independently and in a team.
DUTIES : Render administrative and reception assistance to professional staff regarding
filing, GG transport, telephone accounts and invoices; Assist with the ordering
and issuing of stationery; Processing of payments; Compiling of claims; Assist
with the copying, filing, faxing and scanning of documentation within the
component; Draft and type submissions, default letters, arrange meetings and
agendas and taking of minutes and general correspondence; Data capturing;
Relieve as secretary; Coordination of training requirements; Making travel
arrangements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Williams at Peter.Williams@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 29/169 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: FRAUD AND LOSSES CONTROL REF NO: DOI
83/2025 R1
SALARY : R228 321- R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification) with accounting and/or
Mathematics as a passed subject. Competencies: Knowledge and
understanding of the following: WCG Control processes and procedures;
Management of losses and claims as per PFMA, NTR, PTI, Transport Circular
4 of 2000, Departmental Security policy, Prescription Act 68 of 1969 and the
process to recover losses; Monitor and prevent prescription; Skills in the
following: Communication (written and verbal) and report writing; Planning and
organising (time management); Problem solving and analytical; Loss Control
and basic investigation skills; Ability to assess evidence w.r.t losses and claims
and basic investigation; Ability to adhere to strict financial and quarterly
deadlines/timeframes and work under pressure.
DUTIES : Claims against the State (RCD Claims recoverable); Theft (losses or damages
through criminal acts or omissions); Assist to investigate collisions (AD’s and
ADM's) and compiling BAS (Basic Accountant System) payments and journals
for damages and losses and theft and losses; Register of cases on the Western
Cape Government Loss Control System and ensuring that the electronic
register is updated regularly with the required information; Assist with compiling
referrals to the State Attorney via Legal Services; Assist with drafting of write-
off submissions, submissions to the higher authority and memorandums to
management.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs G Pietersen Tel No: (021) 483 6172
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 29/170 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: WORKSHOP: HR AND GENERAL OFFICE
SUPPORT SERVICES REGION 2 (OUDTSHOORN) REF NO: DOI 107/2025
SALARY : R228 321- R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
116
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification); A valid (Code B or
higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
Knowledge in the following: Legislative framework governing government
transport, record management services and Supply Chain; Vehicle wall charts,
vehicle parts and the working thereof; Supply chain Management in
accordance with National, Provincial and departmental policies; Appropriate in-
service training courses in LOGIS or similar and provisioning procedures. Skills
needed: Computer Literacy (Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook); Flexibility;
Typing skills; Planning and organising; Good verbal and written communication
(written & verbal); Numeracy; Language; Project management; Information
Technology.
DUTIES : Responsible for all administration pertaining to the Workshop including the
sourcing of quotations; Continues liaison with Supply Chain Component and
external Service providers in ensuring the timeous delivery of parts required by
the Workshop; Support the Supply Chain Component in the execution of
certain Supply Chain functions; Render an effective filling and record
management service for the Workshop; Type letters and or correspondence
when required; Handle telephonic and other enquiries received; Render
clerical support regarding GG and PA Transport; Handle theft and losses and
claims against the State; Handle telephone and other enquiries received and
coordinate with artisan foreman, artisans and other role-players to ensure
timely completion of repairs and servicing; Appropriate fleet
management/administration and workshop or similar working experience will
be advantageous.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Kennedy Tel No: (044) 272 2992
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 29/171 : PROJECT SUPPORT CLERK: ENGINEERING SERVICES REF NO: DOI
116/2025
SALARY : R228 321- R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification); A valid Code B (or
higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
Knowledge of applicable legislation and procurement procedures. Skills
needed: Computer literacy (MS word, Ms Excel, Ms Outlook, Ms Projects);
Record keeping; Good communication (written and verbal); Good interpersonal
relations; Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Capture and process payments and claims accurately and promptly on the
relevant system; Register and send invoices on Project system; Ensure
invoices are routed timeously; Comprehensive record keeping of all payments,
claims and supporting documents; Assist Chief Engineer, Engineering team
and other disciplines with relevant administration support; Supervise the use,
maintenance and safeguard of shared material/physical resources in order to
ensure that it is good working condition; General typing of submissions, default
letters and general correspondents; Spreadsheets for statistics to produce
reports on projects; Efficient managing, collecting and capturing of electronic
data; Facilitate consultant appointments for Chief Engineer; Handling enquiries
and complaints from clients for the Engineering Services section; Perform
secretariat functions in meetings. The following will be advantageous: Working
knowledge/experience in PCS, e-Works, Basic Accounting System (BAS), My
Content and relevant experience in Project Support.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Oliver Tel No: (021) 483 4816
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 29/172 : PROJECT SUPPORT CLERK: METRO EAST/WEST REF NO: DOI 118/2025
SALARY : R228 321- R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
117
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification).Competencies:
Knowledge in the following: Administration rules and regulations; Departmental
information systems ( BAS, BIZ Project, MYContent, SITS); Skills needed:
Computer literacy (MS word, Ms Excel, Ms Outlook); Record keeping; Good
communication (written and verbal); Ability to work under pressure and Ability
to work independently and in a team.
DUTIES : Provide and support the following: Reception service; Office administration;
Logistical support and Project Support Administrator.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Williams at Peter.williams@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 29/173 : ROAD WORKER SUPERVISOR: ROUTINE MAINTENANCE REGION 2
(KLAARSTROOM) REF NO: DOI 127/2024 R1
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (or equivalent qualification); A minimum of 3 years relevant
experience; A valid (Code EC) driving licence with professional drivers permit
(PDP).Competencies: Good understanding of the maintenance and repair of
defects on roads and within road reserves; Conflict and diversity management;
Skills needed: Communication (verbal and written); Ability to work under
pressure and meet deadlines; Ability to work in a team; Self-motivated.
DUTIES : Supervise the maintenance and building of roads; Inspect work, supervise and
train workers; Handle and maintain machines and aids which are used for
roads maintenance work and construction work; Plan and supervise
maintenance and construction of roads, premises and building; Repair
equipment in and to buildings, premises and roads; Undertake the
safeguarding of work areas and construction machines in terms of the Health
and Safety Act; Discipline subordinates and apply proper labour relations.
Experience in the following will be advantageous: Civil construction activities;
Operating small construction machines; Management and supervision of staff;
Administrative related experience.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Stegmann Tel No: (044) 272 6071
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 29/174 : ROAD WORKER -ROAD MARKING (OUDTSHOORN) REF NO: DOI
108/2025
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Ability to read & write / Adult Basic Education & Training (ABET 2/Grade 5).
Competencies: A good understanding of the following: Working, handling, and
maintenance of the line marking machine; Different standards of road marking;
Different types of road mark paints, glass beads and the application thereof;
Safety standards and road safety; Building, maintenance and repair of roads.
Skills: Verbal and written communication skills; Ability to work under pressure
and meet deadlines; Reliable; Able to work in a team.
DUTIES : Outline and prepare of new, faded and invisible road markings; Spray of lines
with the aid of road mark machine and hand operated equipment; Assist with
general duties to support road specialist with respect to maintenance, repair,
building and cleaning of roads which may include maintenance or improvement
of road surfaces, road reserves, road signs and road markings, waterways and
structures as well as related activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Stegmann Tel No: (044) 272 3699
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
118
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful.
POST 29/175 : ROAD WORKER (PRINCE ALBERT) REF NO: DOI 109/2025
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Ability to read & write / Adult Basic Education & Training (ABET 2/Grade 5)
Competencies: A good understanding of the following: Building, maintenance
and repair of roads. Skills: Verbal and written communication skills; Ability to
work under pressure and meet deadlines; Reliable; Able to work in a team.
DUTIES : Support road specialists in the maintenance and building of road and all related
infrastructure; Perform manual labour; Undertake general duties to support
road specialist with respect to maintenance, repair, building and cleaning of
roads which may include maintenance or improvement of road surfaces, road
reserves, road signs and road markings, waterways and structures as well a
related activities; Operating of minor construction machines; Operating of hand
tools; Civil construction activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R. du Preez Tel No: (023) 415 5261
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful.
POST 29/176 : ROAD WORKER (GEORGE) REF NO: DOI 110/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Ability to read & write / Adult Basic Education & Training (ABET 2/Grade 5).
Competencies: A good understanding of the following: Building, maintenance
and repair of roads. Skills: Verbal and written communication skills; Ability to
work under pressure and meet deadlines; Reliable; Able to work in a team.
DUTIES : Support road specialists in the maintenance and building of road and all related
infrastructure; Perform manual labour; Undertake general duties to support
road specialist with respect to maintenance, repair, building and cleaning of
roads which may include maintenance or improvement of road surfaces, road
reserves, road signs and road markings, waterways and structures as well a
related activities; Operating of minor construction machines; Operating of hand
tools; Civil construction activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. E Fredericks Tel No: (044) 272 6071
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
119
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful.
POST 29/177 : ROAD WORKER (LADISMITH) REF NO: DOI 111/2025 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Ability to read & write / Adult Basic Education & Training (ABET 2/Grade 5).
Competencies: A good understanding of the following: Building, maintenance
and repair of roads. Skills: Verbal and written communication skills; Ability to
work under pressure and meet deadlines; Reliable; Able to work in a team.
DUTIES : Support road specialists in the maintenance and building of road and all related
infrastructure; Perform manual labour; Undertake general duties to support
road specialist with respect to maintenance, repair, building and cleaning of
roads which may include maintenance or improvement of road surfaces, road
reserves, road signs and road markings, waterways and structures as well a
related activities; Operating of minor construction machines; Operating of hand
tools; Civil construction activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. P. Zulu Tel No: (028) 511 134/044 272 6071
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful.
POST 29/178 : ROAD WORKER (LEEU GUMKA) REF NO: DOI 112/2025
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Ability to read & write / Adult Basic Education & Training (ABET 2/Grade 5).
Competencies: A good understanding of the following: Building, maintenance
and repair of roads. Skills: Verbal and written communication skills; Ability to
work under pressure and meet deadlines; Reliable; Able to work in a team.
DUTIES : Support road specialists in the maintenance and building of road and all related
infrastructure; Perform manual labour; Undertake general duties to support
road specialist with respect to maintenance, repair, building and cleaning of
roads which may include maintenance or improvement of road surfaces, road
reserves, road signs and road markings, waterways and structures as well a
related activities; Operating of minor construction machines; Operating of hand
tools; Civil construction activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R. du Preez Tel No: (023) 415 5261
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful.
120
POST 29/179 : ROAD WOKER (MOSSEL BAY) REF NO: DOI 113/2025 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Ability to read & write / Adult Basic Education & Training (ABET 2/Grade 5).
Competencies: A good understanding of the following: Building, maintenance
and repair of roads. Skills: Verbal and written communication skills; Ability to
work under pressure and meet deadlines; Reliable; Able to work in a team.
DUTIES : Support road specialists in the maintenance and building of road and all related
infrastructure; Perform manual labour; Undertake general duties to support
road specialist with respect to maintenance, repair, building and cleaning of
roads which may include maintenance or improvement of road surfaces, road
reserves, road signs and road markings, waterways and structures as well a
related activities; Operating of minor construction machines; Operating of hand
tools; Civil construction activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. P Zulu Tel No: (028) 134/044 272 6071
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful.
POST 29/180 : ROAD WOKER (KLAARSTROOM) REF NO: DOI 119/2025
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Ability to read & write / Adult Basic Education & Training (ABET 2/Grade 5).
Competencies: A good understanding of the following: Building, maintenance
and repair of roads. Skills: Verbal and written communication skills; Ability to
work under pressure and meet deadlines; Reliable; Able to work in a team.
DUTIES : Support road specialists in the maintenance and building of road and all related
infrastructure; Perform manual labour; Undertake general duties to support
road specialist with respect to maintenance, repair, building and cleaning of
roads which may include maintenance or improvement of road surfaces, road
reserves, road signs and road markings, waterways and structures as well a
related activities; Operating of minor construction machines; Operating of hand
tools; Civil construction activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R. du Preez Tel No: (023) 415 2611
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful.
121
POST 29/181 : ROAD WOKER: ROUTINE MAINTENANCE REGION 2 (VARIOUS POSTS
AVAILABLE IN OUDTSHOORN) REF NO: DOI 140/2024 R1
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Ability to read & write / Adult Basic Education & Training (ABET 2/Grade 5).
Competencies: A good understanding of the construction, maintenance and
repair of roads; Written and verbal communication skills; Willing to sleep out
utilizing caravan; Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines; Ability to
work in a team; Reliable.
DUTIES : Support road specialists in the maintenance and building of road and all related
infrastructure.; Perform manual labour; Undertake general duties to support
road specialists with respect to maintenance, repair, building and cleaning of
roads which may include maintenance or improvement of road surfaces, road
reserves, road signs and road markings, waterways and structures as well as
related activities; Building, maintenance and repair of roads; Operating of minor
construction machine and hand tools; Civil construction activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. E Fredericks Tel No: (044) 272 6071
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful.
DEPARTMENT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
CLOSING DATE : 08 September 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POST
POST 29/182 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (GENERAL SUPPORT): CDW ADMINISTRATION
REF NO: LG 29/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma (equivalent or higher qualification); A
minimum of 3 years’ relevant experience. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and best practices that
have a bearing on the line functions; understanding of information systems that
aid the management of knowledge and information pertaining to the line
function; Project management; Understanding of policy development, and
operational management, monitoring and review processes; Skills needed:
Communication (written and verbal); Accounting, Finance and Audit; Computer
Literacy; Project Management and Numeracy; A valid driving license will be
advantageous.
122
DUTIES : Provide financial support services; Manage the general administrative support
duties; Managerial functions; People Management and Support services for
CDW.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Britz Tel No: (021) 483 8136
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
DEPARTMENT OF POLICE OVERSIGHT AND COMMUNITY SAFETY
CLOSING DATE : 08 September 2025
NOTE Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 29/183 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SECURITY ADVISORY SERVICES (X2 POSTS), REF
NO: POCS 08/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Police Oversight and Community Safety, Western Cape
Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years middle management experience; A valid
code B (or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Specialist knowledge of OHS
legislation, systems and procedures; ISO 31000 - Risk Management, ISO
45001- Occupational Health and Safety, SAMTRAC, SHERQ reporting and
safety and security risk management; Safety and security related legislation,
standards and regulations (understanding and interpretation); Technical
knowledge of OHS risk management processes; Leading and supervising;
Applied strategic thinking; Policy development; Writing and reporting;
Research and analysing; Creative thinking; Problem-solving and decision
making. Skills in the following: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word,
Excel, PowerPoint); Communication skills (written and verbal); Ability to work
independently and as part of team
DUTIES : Manage and influence safety and security governance transversally within
departments; Support the implementation of ISO-aligned safety and security
methodologies for people, processes, and technology within departments;
Embed a positive safety and security culture in WCG; Advise departments on
Occupational Health and Safety Compliance; Manage and coordinate sub-
directorate resources.
ENQUIRIES : Gillian Lutz Tel No: (021) 483-2954
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 29/184 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT PRACTITIONER REF NO: POCS 07/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Police Oversight and Community Safety, Western Cape
Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1-year relevant asset management experience.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Financial norms and standards,
(Public Finance Management Act -PFMA, National Treasury Regulations,
Provincial Treasury Instructions/Directives; Extensive knowledge of Supply
123
Chain Management systems such as LOGIS; Immovable asset management
policies, procedures and applicable delegations of authority; SCM regulations,
policies, procedures, applicable delegations and asset management forms;
Lease, maintenance and types of lease contracts. Skills in the following:
Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word Excel, PowerPoint);
Communication skills (written and verbal); Accounting finance and audit;
Planning and organising; Ability to analyse, conceptualise and implement
policies; A valid driving license will be advantageous.
DUTIES : Coordinate and administer the capturing, allocation of all physical (moveable)
assets in the physical asset management registers and safekeeping thereof;
Coordinate, implement and monitor assets in accordance with the relevant
policy and procedures; Coordinate and administer the disposal process of
assets; Supervisor functions; Experience in relevant systems (LOGIS).
ENQUIRIES : Ms D July at Deidre.July@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
DEPARTMENT OF THE PREMIER
CLOSING DATE : 08 September 2025
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates must make themselves available to be interviewed at
a date, time and place as decided by the selection panel. Please ensure that
you submit your application on or before the closing date as no late applications
will be considered. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Kindly note that technical support is only available
from Monday to Friday from 8:00 to 16.00. Should you experience any
difficulties with your online application you may contact the helpline at 0861
370 214. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that
intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will
be communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive
on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS Competency Assessment tools. The nominated
candidate will be required to complete the Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme before they may be appointed into this post. The purpose of the
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, which is a public service specific
training programme applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is
to ensure that potential SMS members have a background on processes and
procedures linked to the SMS. The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme
is 120 notional hours (15 days). Full details may be sourced by the following
link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-preentryprogramme/
Furthermore, thanks to the huge public interest we receive many applications
for our positions, and as such will not be able to respond personally to all
applications. Therefore, should you not hear from us within 10 weeks from
close of advert please consider your application unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 29/185 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC ICT SERVICES REF NO: DOTP 69/2025
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA. A minimum
of 5 years’ experience at a senior managerial level. Competencies: Expert
knowledge of ICT as an enabling tool for systems development / ICT training /
IT security / infrastructure and networks / business and systems analysis /
Architecture and frameworks; Proven knowledge of and working experience
with the legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and best practices that
have a bearing on the line functions; Proven knowledge and understanding of
information systems that aid in the management of knowledge and information
pertaining to the line function; Proven knowledge and understanding of
programme and project management; Proven knowledge and understanding
of policy development, and strategy management, monitoring and review
processes; Proven knowledge and understanding of modern systems of
124
governance and administration; Proven knowledge and understanding of the
global, regional and local political, economic and social affairs impacting on the
provincial government of the Western Cape; Proven knowledge and
understanding of Constitutional, legal and institutional arrangements governing
the South African public sector; Proven knowledge and understanding of public
finance, human resources and discourse management processes; Proven
knowledge and understanding of the Public Finance Management Act, National
and Provincial Treasury Regulations, other financial policies, prescripts,
directives and collective agreements; Proven knowledge and understanding of
the policies of the government of the day.
DUTIES : Strategic Management: Define and review on a continual basis the purpose,
objectives, priorities and activities of the Chief Directorate; Drive the Chief
Directorate’s strategic planning process; Drive the development and
management of the strategic and business plans for the Chief Directorate;
Evaluate the performance of the Chief Directorate on a continuing basis
against pre-determined key measurable objectives and standards; Report to
the Deputy Director-General on a regular basis on the activities of the Chief
Directorate and on matters of substantial importance relating to operational
management support; Monitor and ensure compliance with relevant legislation
and prescripts in respect of adequate and appropriate record keeping of the
activities of the Chief Directorate, and of the resources (people, finances and
assets) employed by it; Foster and promote a culture of innovation within the
Chief Directorate, and the Department; Diligently perform all duties assigned
to the post of Chief Director. Line Management: Ensure that the digital
government strategy, digital transformation plan and other ICT policies,
strategies and frameworks are reviewed as required; Provide thought
leadership on digital innovation and the adoption of emerging technologies;
Develop and coordinate implementation of provincial ICT strategies, policies,
and frameworks in alignment with the Western Cape Government’s (WCG)
strategic goals and apex priorities; Lead, direct and coordinate the
development of the provincial digital government strategy and Digital
Transformation Plan; Ensure the strategic provincial ICT planning and business
analysis services are provided to all relevant stakeholders within the Western
Cape Government; Ensure strategic alignment of ICT Services with
departmental and Provincial business objectives; Ensure that standards and
structure for the governance of provincial macro ICT processes are developed,
implemented and monitored; Direct the development of plans to identify and
address digital government and other ICT- related risks to the Province,
including e.g. Business Continuity Plans and Audit risks; Lead the development
of the WCG’s Enterprise architecture (EA) blueprint; Ensure alignment of all
major ICT initiatives to EA standards, strategic outcomes, and business
requirements; Ensure benefit and value are derived from the WCG’s ICT
investment; Drive continuous improvement, impact measurement, and results-
based management; Ensure branch finances (budget & expenditure) are in
alignment with priorities; Ensure branch procurement is managed throughout
the procurement cycle, inclusive of proper contract management practices, to
derive maximum value. People Management and Empowerment: Participate
in the recruitment of employees in the numbers and grades appropriate to
ensure the achievement of the Chief Directorate’s Business Plan; Motivate,
train and guide employees within the Chief Directorate, to achieve and maintain
excellence in service delivery; Actively manage the performance, evaluation
and rewarding of employees within the Chief Directorate. Financial
Management: Manage participation in the budgeting process at Chief
Directorate level; Ensure the preparation of the Annual and Adjustment
Budgets for the Chief Directorate; Assume direct accountability for the efficient,
economic and effective control and management of the Chief Directorate’s
budget and expenditure; Ensure that full and proper records of the financial
affairs of the Chief Directorate are kept in accordance with the prescribed
norms and standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. E Samaai - Egsaan.Samaai@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
125
POST 29/186 : DIRECTOR: TRANSVERSAL ICT INFRASTRUCTURE OPERATIONS AND
SERVICES REF NO: DOTP 38/2025
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification on NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA. A
minimum of 5 years’ experience at a middle/senior managerial level.
Competencies: Proven knowledge of ICT as an enabling tool for development
/ ICT training, systems and security / Infrastructure and networks / Business
and Systems analysis / Architecture and frameworks; Proven knowledge of and
working experience with the legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and
best practices that have a bearing on the line functions; Proven knowledge and
understanding of information systems that aid in the management of
knowledge and information pertaining to the line function; Proven knowledge
and understanding of programme and project management; Proven knowledge
and understanding of policy development, and strategy management,
monitoring and review processes; Proven knowledge and understanding of
modern systems of governance and administration; Proven knowledge and
understanding of the global, regional and local political, economic and social
affairs impacting on the provincial government of the Western Cape; Proven
knowledge and understanding of Constitutional, legal and institutional
arrangements governing the South African public sector; Proven knowledge
and understanding of public finance, human resources and discourse
management processes; Proven knowledge and understanding of the Public
Finance Management Act, National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, other
financial policies, prescripts, directives and collective agreements; Proven
knowledge and understanding of the policies of the government of the day.
DUTIES : Line Management: Promote effective management of information and
technology as a strategic resource; Plan and manage the implementation of
solutions, systems and infrastructure; Render departmental specific
infrastructure technology services; Provide server and Wide Area Network
(WAN) and Local Area Network (LAN) infrastructure services; Manage data
centre, facility facilities and Business Continuity Plan/Disaster Recovery
services; Provide regional shared infrastructure coordination and support;
Manage departmental contracts and service level agreements with service
providers. Strategic Management: Define and review on a continual basis the
purpose, objectives, priorities and activities of the Directorate; Drive the
Directorate’s strategic planning process; Drive the development and
management of the strategic and business plans for the Directorate; Evaluate
the performance of the Directorate on a continuous basis against pre-
determined key measurable objectives and standards; Report to the Chief
Director on a regular basis on the activities of the Directorate and on matters
of substantial importance relating to operational management support; Monitor
and ensure compliance with relevant legislation and prescripts in respect of
adequate and appropriate record keeping of the activities of the Directorate,
and of the resources (people, finances and assets) employed by it; Foster and
promote a culture of innovation within the Directorate, and the Department;
Diligently perform all duties assigned to the post of Director. People
Management and Empowerment: Participate in the recruitment of employees
in the numbers and grades appropriate to ensure the achievement of the
Directorate’s strategic and business plans; Motivate, train and guide
employees within the Directorate, to achieve and maintain excellence in
service delivery; Actively manage the performance, evaluation and rewarding
of employees within the Directorate. Financial Management: Manage
participation in the budgeting process at Directorate level; Ensure the
preparation of the annual and adjustment budgets for the Directorate; Assume
direct accountability for the efficient, economic and effective control and
management of the Directorate’s budget and expenditure.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. E Alexander - Evan.Alexander@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
126
OTHER POSTS
POST 29/187 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PERFORMANCE ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
DOTP 55/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B- Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years supervisory level experience in human
resource environment. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Staff
Performance Management System; Monitoring and Coaching practices;
Human Resource Management; Constitution of RSA; Public Service Act and
Regulations; Employment Equity Act; Basic Conditions of Employment Act;
Labour Relations Act; White Paper on Transformation & Batho Pele Principals;
White Paper on Service Delivery in the Public Service; Skills Development Act;
Human Rights Practices; People Management; Skills Development Strategy of
the Public Service; Disciplinary Codes and Procedures; Collective
Agreements; SPMS; Public Finance Management Act. Skills needed:
Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint etc); Ability
to work independently and as part of a team; Communication skill (written and
verbal); Leadership and Motivation skills; Research skills; Analytical skills;
Conceptual, interpretive and formulation skills; Planning and organising skills;
Project management skills; Innovative problem solving skills; Conflict
resolution skills; Negotiation skills; Influencing skills; Listening skills.
DUTIES : Facilitates and administers probation and performance management,
communication thereof, training and information dissemination within
departments and track performance management events and activities against
the performance management timetable of the department and compile regular
progress reports; Facilitate, guide and administer the performance
agreements, quality assurance, assessments and moderation of Head of
Departments and senior managers as well as within; Provide training and
assist SMS members and other employees with PERMIS enquires; Provide a
performance advisory service, administrative and operational support to
people managers and employees for alignment of individual and departmental
performance results and liaise with other Departments (provincial and national)
on performance management and probation related matters; Provide a
performance advisory service and support people managers with performance
related consequence management, the management of poor performance,
incapacity, incapacity due to ill health, operational incapacity; Regularly provide
input, review and update policies, SOPs, methodologies for the Performance
Administration and Performance Consulting Unit; Manage and supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Viljoen Tel No: (021) 483 4375
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 08 September 2025
POST 29/188 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS REF NO:
DOTP 67/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher) in
Human Resource Management, Business Administration, Industrial or
Organisational Psychology or related field of study; A minimum of 3 years
relevant experience; A valid Code B (or higher) driving licence. Competencies:
127
Knowledge of the following: Policies and frameworks regarding to employee
wellness programmes in government; Quantitative and qualitative research
methodologies; Latest advances in employee health and wellness theory and
practice; Statutory framework governing the broad management of the Public
Service; Employee health and wellness theory, practice and techniques;
Appreciative inquiry; Project management; Monitoring and evaluation tools;
Supply Chain Management Procedures and Contract Management regarding
vendor invoices, payments and expenditure; Employee Health and Wellness
(EHW) Programme monitoring and evaluation; Contract management and
Supply Chain Management Procedures. Skills: Proven computer literacy;
Communication (written and verbal); Consulting and networking.
DUTIES : Communication and awareness of EHW services and programme;
Management of EHW advisory services, EHW Project plans; Develop relevant
EHW governance and standards; Management of Supply Chain Management
Procedures and Contract Management; Supervising the EHW Practitioner(s).
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Gallie Tel No: (021) 466 9704
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. You
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date, as no
late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 08 September 2025
POST 29/189 : ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER: ORGANISATIONAL
DESIGN REF NO: DOTP 13/2025 R1
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year tertiary qualification (National Diploma/B-Degree or
higher) in Social Sciences/ Humanities/ Industrial Psychology/ Public
Management and Business Management; A minimum of 1-year relevant
experience. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Latest advances in
public management and industrial psychology theory and practice; Statutory
framework governing the broad management of the Public Service; Policies of
the government of the day (national and provincial); Provincial government
functions and services; Intergovernmental relations; Organisation development
theory, practice and techniques; Systems theory; Key elements/determinants
of organisational performance as they relate to the field of organisation
development including diagnostic and intervention processes and techniques;
Key elements of organisational behaviour (such as leadership styles,
interpersonal relations, power and politics, decision making, conflict, problem
solving and ethics); The Equate/Evaluate Job Evaluation System; Group
dynamics (roles and stages of group development); Project management;
Benchmarking; Appreciative inquiry; Research methods/statistics (action
research, quantitative and qualitative). Skills needed: Communication (written
and verbal); Research; Analytical; Diagnostic; Conceptual, interpretive and
formulation; Networking; Planning and organising; Project management;
Intervention design; Innovative problem-solving; Benchmarking and
Facilitation. Abilities: Function as a self-managing employee; Team player
(including the ability to function in multi-functional teams); Interpretive and
conceptualisation/formulation; Render advice and guidance in an objective yet
dedicated manner; Multi-task, including simultaneous execution of two or more
projects; Function under rapidly changing and pressurised circumstances; It
will be advantageous to have a valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB:
People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable
access to transport, may also apply.
DUTIES : Provide an Organisation Development service by executing and implementing
Org Design and OD interventions by means of facilitation, group problem
128
solving, capacity building and other appropriate OD techniques including areas
Job evaluation, business process redesign and change management
interventions; Contribute to the rendering of macro and transversal
organisation design services; Document and report on OD interventions;
Contribute to the facilitation of mandatory transversal service delivery and
Batho Pele initiatives; Contribute to the optimisation, enablement and maintain
organisation development methodologies, tools and techniques and provide
input into the Directorate’s information management system and database with
specific reference to OD interventions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Johnson Tel No: (021) 466 9500
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. You
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date, as no
late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 08 September 2025
POST 29/190 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DOTP 07/2025 R1
SALARY : R228 321- R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification); A valid Code B (or
higher) driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA); Supply Chain Management Prescripts;
Financial Accounting; Asset Management framework; Relevant systems (Asset
Management sections) or any Other Asset Management system. Skills in the
following: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
outlook); Written and verbal Communication; Client and goal oriented; Ability
to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Assist with asset disposal; Barcoding of Assets; Perform physical asset
verifications; Attend to asset movements; Updating of the asset register;
Arrange meetings; Provide support to line function (Customer Care); It will be
advantageous to have experience in an asset management environment;
storeroom environment; Inventory management environment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Brits Tel No: (021) 483 8187
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. You
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date, as no
late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 08 September 2025
POST 29/191 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: TALENT SOURCING REF NO: DOTP 68/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies:
Proven computer literacy in MS Word and Excel; Good planning and organising
129
skills; Communication (written and verbal) skills; Interpersonal skill; Ability to
work under pressure and meet deadlines. It will be to your advantage if you
have: Appropriate tertiary qualification; experience within a Human
Resource/Recruitment environment; experience on an e-recruitment system;
and A valid Code B (or higher) driving licence.
DUTIES : Liaise with relevant stakeholders; General HR administration; Database
Management; Capture and update expenditure in component; Knowledge of
Recruitment and Selection Policies and Procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Jattiem Tel No: (021) 483 9063
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. You
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date, as no
late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 08 September 2025
POST 29/192 : GENERAL FOREMAN: PEOPLE TRAINING EMPOWERMENT FACILITIES
(STELLENBOSCH) REF NO: DOTP 56/2025 R1
12-Month Contract
SALARY : R193 359- R227 766 per annum (Level 04), plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (or equivalent qualification); A minimum of 3 years relevant
experience. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Stores; Gardening;
Safety; Livestock; Tools; HR matters; It will be advantageous to have a valid
(Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Skills needed: Planning and organising; Written and verbal communication
skills; Interpersonal; Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Oversee the execution of routine activities in respect of the following:
Maintenance of the buildings; Gardening and/or maintenance of grounds;
Safety and security; Supervise and oversee the execution in respect of
cleaning, safeguarding and maintenance issues.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Litshi Tel No: (021) 865 8077
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. You
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date, as no
late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 08 September 2025
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
CLOSING DATE : 08 September 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
130
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. You
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date, as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 29/193 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS INTERNSHIP
PROGRAMME REF NO: PT 09/2025
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Honours degree in Financial Accounting; Qualified CA (SA);
Completed Articles; A minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience; Eligible to
register as a SAICA assessor, or to obtain it within the first 3 months of
employment. Competencies: Understanding of the following: Project
management, operational management, procurement, tendering, and policy
development processes; Awareness of regional and local political, economic,
and social factors affecting provincial government, especially in the Western
Cape; Public Finance Management Act, national and provincial treasury
regulations and related financial policies and agreements; It will be
advantageous to have experience in managing the SAICA training contract
management and full knowledge of the SAICA programme. Skills:
Conceptualisation, planning, organisation, client and people management,
networking, and project management; Proficiency in: accounting, finance,
audit, analytical thinking, report writing, financial management, computer
literacy and effective communication (written and verbal) with the ability to
make tactical and strategic decisions.
DUTIES : Analyse and develop frameworks and policies, including transversal training
and capacitation strategies; Manage stakeholder relationships; Manage the
training programme to ensure compliance with SAICA competency framework
for articled trainees; Oversee the administrative support function; Performance
management functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Hardien Tel No: (021) 483 4550
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 29/194 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BURSARY ADMINISTRATION REF NO: PT
32/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B Degree (NQF 6-equivalent or higher
qualification) within commerce fields (i.e. Human Resource; Public
Management, Business Management); A minimum of 3 years relevant
experience; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to
transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of Bursary
administration, contract management and project management; Project
Management, Contract Management and policies governing developmental
programmes within the public service. Skills needed: Report writing; Sound
organising and planning; Analytical and Problem-solving skills; Communication
(written and verbal); Stakeholder Management; Proven computer literacy and
digital skills capabilities.
DUTIES : Coordinate and facilitate the implementation of the departmental Talent
Management Strategy; Operationalise effective Bursary Administration;
Manage all developmental Programmes (i.e. Bursary Obligators, Graduate,
and PAY Interns); Administer the Memorandum of Agreement of the Essay
Writing Competition.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Damons Tel No: (021) 483 6127
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
131
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 08 September 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. You
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 29/195 : MANAGER EDUCATION: EDUCATION (VREDELUS IN ELSIES RIVER)
REF NO: DSD 46/2024 R1
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 4-year tertiary qualification (or higher qualification) in
Education; Registration with SACE; A minimum of 5 years’ experience as an
Educator. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Applicable policies and
procedures; Public Service procedure; People Management Practices;
Employee relations; Ability to interpret and apply policies and procedures. Skills
needed: Planning; Presentation and facilitation; Communication (Written and
verbal); Proven computer literacy; People management and empowerment;
Information and Knowledge Management; Service delivery innovation;
Problem solving and analysis.
DUTIES : Ensure effective implementation of educational programmes at facilities in
accordance to curriculum requirements and departmental legislation; Manage
the implementation of the education programme suitable to meet learning
needs of at-risk learner; Ensure safety and disciplinary measures within the
education environment; Participate in daily, weekly, quarterly and annual safety
and security measures and procedures; People management and
development; Administer the people management policy to the education team
– leave management and administration, employee management; Effective
operational planning and execution; Management of resources, monthly
reports, statistics, registration with SACE, self-development; It will be
advantageous to have experience as a manager in the Education sector.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Benting Tel No: (021) 931 0236
POST 29/196 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BUDGETING AND PLANNING REF NO: DSD
55/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification); A minimum
of 3 years relevant supervisory experience. Competencies: Knowledge of
relevant legislation and policies; Skills needed: Applying expertise and
technology; Analysing; Deciding and initiating action; Delivering results and
meeting customer expectations; Following instructions and procedures;
Coping with pressures and setbacks; Adhering to principles and values;
Relating and networking; Presenting and communicating information; Writing
and reporting; Learning and researching; Planning and organising.
DUTIES : Manage and supervise staff regarding the following functions and perform the
more complex work in that regard; Planning – Coordinate, review, analyse and
quality assure the financial supporting information for planning purposes;
Budgeting – Coordinate, review, analyse and qualify assure the budget
preparation process; Reporting – Coordinate, review, analyse and quality
assure the management accounting reporting processes; Manage the
132
operational processes, resources and procedures associated with the
management accounting functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr DI Holley Tel No: (021) 483 4276
POST 29/197 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: GOVERNANCE REF NO: DSD 56/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification); A minimum
of 3 years’ experience in Internal Control, Governance or similar environment.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Policy development; Budgeting
processes; Financial norms and standards; Public Service Anti-Corruption
Strategy and Fraud prevention measures; Principles and Practices of Financial
Accounting; Internal Control Tools and Techniques; Government Accounting
Standards; Economic Reporting Framework; Risk management frameworks;
Government financial systems; Human Resource Management. Skills needed:
Communication (written and verbal); Analytical thinking; Strategic thinking;
Budgeting skills; Computer Literacy; Ability to analyse, conceptualise and
implement policy; Conflict resolution; Monitoring, evaluation and reporting;
Presentation; Problem Solving; Research.
DUTIES : Manage and supervise staff regarding the following functions and perform the
more complex work in that regard: Ensure proper governance; Render
assurance services; Provide fraud and losses management services; Perform
managerial and supervisory tasks.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D.N Arendse Tel No: (021) 483 8646
POST 29/198 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT PRACTITIONER: ASSET REGISTRATION
AND REPORTING REF NO: DSD 51/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in financial management, law or similar environment; A minimum
of 2 years’ experience in a supply chain management environment.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Policy Development; Financial
norms and standards (Public Finance Management Act – PFMA, National
Treasury regulations – NTR’s, Provincial Treasury Directives/Instructions –
PTI’s); Strategic Sourcing and Preferential Procurement / BEE; SCM
regulations, policies and procedures, applicable delegations, asset
management forms as per policies and procedures; Financial management
processes; Procurement best practices including sourcing strategies and the
different mechanisms for procurement; Procurement policies, procedures,
contract management; Accounting Manual for Departments (AMD), GRAP and
disclosure requirements for Movable Assets; It will be advantageous to have
working knowledge, skill and experience in Excel and Logis system. Skills
needed: Analytical thinking; Strategic thinking; Computer literacy (SCM
Systems); Planning and organising; Numeracy and accuracy; Good verbal and
written communication skills; Ability to analyse, conceptualise and implement
policies; Presentation skills; Research skills; Problem solving.
DUTIES : Compilation of movable asset management notes for interim financial
statements (IFS) and annual financial statements (AFS) in terms of the
modified cash standards / generally recognised accounting practice (GRAP);
Compile the monthly basic accounting systems (BAS) / logistical information
system (LOGIS) reconciliations; Liaise with contract management in order to
keep track of financed leased assets that has to be added to the departmental
asset register; Manage asset reporting and analysis.
ENQUIRIES : Mr X Pieters Tel No: (021) 483 8281
POST 29/199 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: BUDGETING AND PLANNING REF NO: DSD
58/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1-year relevant experience in a financial
accounting environment. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Financial
and budgetary management processes; Monitoring and reviewing reports;
133
Basic Accounting System (BAS); Relevant legislation, directions and
procedures with regard to financial administration (Public Finance
Management Act; National Treasury Regulations; Provincial Treasury
Instructions; Division of Revenue Act; Medium Term Expenditure Framework);
Research, gathering information and analysing; Interpretation of policies;
Compilation of management reports; Record keeping procedures. Skills
needed: Planning and organising; Proven computer literacy; Written and verbal
communication; Time management; Analytical thinking; Strategic thinking;
Project planning; Problem solving; Decision making; Presentation; Ability to
multi-task, deal with ambiguity and manage under rapidly changing and
pressurised circumstances; Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Compile and manage departmental budget and MTEF process; Manage the
departments expenditure and revenue; HR administration; Revenue
ministration; Debt Management; Provide banking and cash management
services; Supervisory functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Abercrombie Tel No: (021) 483 3927
POST 29/200 : SOCIAL WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES (ATLANTIS), REF NO. DSD
57/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R325 200 – R382 374 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 2: R397 119 – R459 996 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 3: R477 564 – R561 378 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 4: R585 441 – R725 754 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in Social Work (Bachelor of Social Work) that
allows professional registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions as Social Worker; Registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions as a Social Worker; Grade 1: No
experience; Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience in Social
Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions; Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions; Grade 4: A minimum of 30
years appropriate experience in Social Work after registration as a Social
Worker with the South African Council for Social Service Professions.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Supervision Framework for Social
Workers; Human behaviour and social systems and skills to intervene at the
points where people interact with their environments in order to promote social
well-being; Social work theory and interventions; Information and Knowledge
Management; Protocol and professional ethics; Relevant legislations, policies
and prescripts (norms and standards); Social dynamics, work values and
principles; Developing and empowering others; It will be advantageous to have
a valid Code B (or higher) driving licence. Skills in the following: Challenge
structural sources of poverty, inequality, oppression, discrimination and
exclusion; Written and verbal communication; Report-writing; Self-
management; Motivation; Good planning and organizing; Problem solving and
analytical; Computer literacy; Presentation and facilitation; Client orientation
and customer focus; Ability and competence to assist, develop, advocate for,
and empower individuals, families, groups, organisations and communities to
enhance their social functioning and their problem-solving capabilities; Ability
to promote, restore, maintain, advocate for and enhance the functioning of
individuals, families, groups and communities by enabling them to accomplish
tasks, prevent and alleviate distress and use resources effectively;
Understanding and ability to provide social work services towards protecting
people who are vulnerable, at risk and unable to protect themselves; Ability to
mentor and coach Social Workers Grade 1.
DUTIES : Render a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection and
development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities
through the relevant programmes (Case work, group work and Community
work). Attend to any other matters that could result in, or stem from, social
instability in any form; Supervise and Support Social Auxiliary Workers;
Continuous Professional Development. Keep up to date with new
developments in the social work and social welfare fields; Perform all the
administrative functions required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I Koen Tel No: (021) 840 3500
134
POST 29/201 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: EXECUTIVE SUPPORT (OFFICE OF THE HEAD
OF DEPARTMENT) REF NO: DSD 02/2025 R1
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification) plus an accredited
secretarial diploma and/or administrative qualification on the level of NQF level
5 or relevant higher tertiary qualification (a certificate of completion should be
provided); A minimum of 3 year’s experience in rendering secretarial/
administrative support services to senior management. Competencies:
Knowledge and understanding of the following: Regulations, policies,
prescripts and procedures; Financial Administration; Skills needed: Written and
verbal; Telephone etiquette; Proven computer literacy; Organising; Reliable;
Ability to act with tact and discretion; Ability to do research and analyse
documents and situations; Self-management and motivation.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial and receptionist support service to the manager; Renders
administrative support services; Provides support to manager regarding
meetings; Supports the manager with the administration of the manager’s
budget; Studies the relevant Public Service and departmental
prescripts/policies and other documents and ensure that the application thereof
is properly understood.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Van Wyk Tel No: (021) 483 6741
POST 29/202 : KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT OFFICER: KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT
REF NO: DSD 54/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-degree (equivalent or higher) in
Information or Library Sciences; A minimum of 1 year experience in the
knowledge management field; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB:
People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable
access to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Public service legislation, including POPI, PAIA, PAJA; Records
management systems; Electronic content management; Policies and
prescripts related to records and knowledge management; Project
management. Skills needed: Proven computer literacy; Written and verbal
communication; Planning and organising; Problem solving; Facilitation and
presentation; Analytical; Project management; Innovation.
DUTIES : Provide administrative assistance in the identification, implementation and
maintenance of knowledge and information services; Contribute to the
conversion of tacit and implicit knowledge into institutional knowledge; Provide
administrative support in the publishing and dissemination of management
information generated within the Department; Administer the process of
obtaining access to management and other information generated within the
Department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Marthinus Tel No: (021) 483 8833
POST 29/203 : ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT OFFICER: CORPORATE SERVICE
RELATIONS MANAGEMENT REF NO: DSD 60/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 1–2-year post school qualification; A minimum of 3 years
relevant experience. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Business and
organisational structure of the department; Departmental operational
management systems and procedures; Corporate governance requirements,
with particular reference to prescribed plans and committees (in as far as they
relate to the work of the CSC); Provincial policies, service level agreement and
service schedules in terms of which the working relationship with the CSC is
managed; Human resources management (as supervisor of own employees).
Skills needed: Written and verbal communication; Planning and organising;
Basic research; Computer literacy; Problem solving; Conceptual, interpretative
and formulation skills; Analytical skills; Networking; Basic statistical; Basic
numeracy.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services: Assist in the coordination of the
appointment of members of prescribed departmental committees, as well as
135
the nomination of departmental representative to transversal forums; Assist in
the provision of logistical arrangements for prescribed departmental
committees (excluding secretariat services); Distribute general CSC
communications/information as required, and keep record of incoming and
outgoing SC-correspondence; Assist in the collation of consolidated
departmental input/reports to the CSC as required; Assist in the facilitation of
follow-up actions; Function as supervisor: Mentor and coach team members;
Manage the discipline of team members; Manage the workload of team
members; Monitor and manage the day-to-day workflow in team; Manage and
administer the staff appraisal system/process.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Booth Tel No: (021) 483 2354
POST 29/204 : CHIEF SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK: QUOTATION
ADMINISTRATION REF NO: DSD 62/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification); A minimum of 3 years
supply chain management experience; A valid (Code B or higher) driving
licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of
the following: Policy Development; Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
National Treasury Regulations (NTR’s), Provincial Treasury Directives /
Instructions (PTI’s); Strategic sourcing and preferential procurement / Black
Economic Empowerment (BEE); SCM regulations, policies and procedures,
applicable delegations, asset management forms as per policies and
procedures; Financial management processes; Procurement best practices
including sourcing strategies and the different mechanisms for procurement;
Procurement policies, procedures, contract management; Records
Management – inclusive of registry services and policy and procedures
governing these functions. Skills needed: Analytical thinking; Problem solving;
Analytical thinking; Operational thinking; Computer literacy (SCM Systems);
Planning and organising; Written and verbal communication; Numeracy; Ability
to analyse; Conceptualise and implement policies; Presentation; Interpersonal
relations; Flexibility; Teamwork.
DUTIES : Compile quotation specification as required; Compile the list of prospective
providers for quotations; Compile the list of prospective providers for
quotations; Facilitate Records and Information Management of the division;
Supervise human resource staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Jane Tel No: (021) 483 8681
POST 29/205 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK: LOGISTICS SERVICES REF NO:
DSD 52/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321- R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies: A
good understanding of the following: Supply chain duties, practices as well as
the ability to capture data; Operate a computer and collecting statistics;
Legislative framework governing the Public Service; Work procedures in terms
of the working environment. Skills in the following: Written and verbal
communication; Proven computer literacy; Planning and organising; Ability to
work in a team.
DUTIES : Rendering the following: Logistical support services; Demand and acquisition
clerical support; Render budget support services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Moodie at (066) 413 5970
POST 29/206 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DSD 53/2025
SALARY : R228 321- R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies: A
good understanding of the following: Supply chain duties, practices as well as
the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics;
Legislative framework governing the Public Service; Work procedures in terms
of the working environment; It will be advantageous to have a valid (Code B or
136
higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Skills needed:
Written and verbal communication; Interpersonal relations; Flexibility;
Teamwork; Planning and organisation; Proven computer literacy.
DUTIES : Compile and maintain records (e.g asset records/databases); Check and issue
furniture, equipment and accessories to components and individuals; Identify
redundant, non-serviceable and obsolete equipment for disposal; Verify asset
register.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Martin Tel No: (021) 483 6004
POST 29/207 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: CORPORATE SERVICE RELATIONS
MANAGEMENT REF NO: DSD 59/2025
SALARY : R228 321- R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies: Good
understanding of the following: Administrative processes; Clerical duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data; Working procedures in terms of
the working environment. Skills needed: Computer literacy; Record keeping;
Written and verbal communication.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services relating to training and development;
Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the
component pertaining to Service Benefits; Recruitment and selection and Staff
Performance Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Booth Tel No: (021) 483 2354
POST 29/208 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES (SALDANHA),
REF NO: DSD 63/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R192 972 – R218 409 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 2: R227 292 – R259 368 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 3: R270 009 - R339 439 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification); Registration and proof
of current registration with the South African Council for Social Service
Professions (SACSSP) as Social Auxiliary Worker; A valid code B driving
licence. Competencies: Knowledge and basic understanding of the following:
Human behaviour, relationship system and social issues; South African Social
Welfare context the policy and practice of developmental social welfare
services; South African judicial system and the legislation governing and
impacting of social auxiliary work; Basic knowledge of financial matters related
to social auxiliary work; Skills needed: Good communication (written and
verbal); Proven computer literacy; Information and Knowledge Management
(Keep precise records and compile accurate reports); Organising and planning;
Presentation and facilitation; Report writing; Problem solving and analytical;
Client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through the relevant
departmental programmes; Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form; Continuous
professional development; Perform administrative support functions in support
of social workers as required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Fick Tel No: (022) 713 2272
WESTERN CAPE MOBILITY DEPARTMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 08 September 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
137
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 29/209 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PRE PROJECTS REF NO: WCMD 74/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years middle management experience in a
eNaTIS Systems Management working environment. Competences:
Knowledge of the following: Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and
best practices that have a bearing on the line functions; Information systems
that aid in the management of knowledge and information pertaining to the line
function; Project management; Operational management practices;
procurement and tendering processes; Policy development, and operational
management, monitoring and review processes; Modern systems of
governance and administration; Public service procedures, processes and
systems; Regional and local political, economic and social affairs impacting on
the provincial government of the Western Cape; Public finance, human
resources and discourse management processes; Public Finance
Management Act, National Treasury Regulations, Provincial Treasury
Instructions, other financial policies, prescripts, directives and collective
agreements. Skills needed: Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Written
and verbal communication; Project Management; Accounting, Finance and
Audit; Managerial; Leadership; Analytical thinking; Strategic thinking; Policy
Implementation (Impact on system); Conflict resolution; Monitoring, evaluation
and reporting; Facilitation and presentation; Problem-solving; Research.
DUTIES : Manage Provincial Regulatory Entity (PRE) Projects; Manage PRE Service
Delivery initiatives and issues; Manage the provincial regulatory entity function
in the regions (Eden and West-Coast, Winelands and Overberg); Oversee that
the processing of applications for operating licenses is adhered to; Plan and
manage the work of and account for the overall performance of the Sub-
Directorate; People Management; Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Macmahon Tel No: (021) 483 0211
POST 29/210 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PRE PROJECTS (ATHLONE) REF NO: WCMD
75/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years relevant experience. Competences:
Knowledge of the following: Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and
best practices that have a bearing on the line functions; Information systems
that aid in the management of knowledge and information pertaining to the line
function; Project management; Operational management practices;
Procurement and tendering processes; Policy development, and operational
management, monitoring and review processes; Modern systems of
governance and administration; Public service procedures, processes and
systems; Regional and local political, economic and social affairs impacting on
the provincial government of the Western Cape; Public finance, human
resources and discourse management processes; Public Finance
Management Act, National Treasury Regulations, Provincial Treasury
Instructions, other financial policies, prescripts, directives and collective
agreements. Skills needed: Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Written
and verbal communication; Project Management; Accounting, Finance and
Audit.
DUTIES : Develop and research service delivery solutions; Manage and handle PRE
enquiries and complaints; Consult with different stakeholders in the industry;
Oversee the verification and inspection of Operator Licensing and Permits
(OLP) is done regarding PRE matters; Managerial functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PW Davids Tel No: (021) 483 0312 or Tel No: (021) 483 1212
138
POST 29/211 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL REPORTING REF NO: WCMD
47/2024 R1
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in Financial
Accounting or related qualification; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in
financial reporting environment; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB:
People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable
access to transport, may also apply. Competences: Knowledge of the following:
Operation of a Trading Entity, GMT policies and SOP’s, National Treasury
Regulations, Provincial Treasury Instructions, Public Finance management Act
(Act 1 of 1999); Financial Procedures, Financial Delegations, Financial
Instructions, Disciplinary and Grievance Procedures; FleetMan system,
MSOffice, Outlook, Oracle EBS, GRAP. Skills needed: Proven computer
literacy; Organisational; Financial reporting; Supervisory skills; Good problem
solving; Conflict resolution; Analytical thinking; Ability to interpret relevant
directives and policies; Communication (Verbal and writing) skills; Numerical;
self-motivated; Work under pressure; Systematic approach; Innovative
thinking; Leadership.
DUTIES : Manage and control the following: Asset registers and Standard Chart of
Accounts (SCOA); All aspects regarding unspent conditional grants; input,
processing and reporting of PPE, intangible- and heritage assets; All aspects
regarding finance leases; All aspects regarding operating leases; Maintain
programmes for the preparation of financial statements and in-year monitoring.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Y Gqamlana Tel No: (021) 467 4792
POST 29/212 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: VERIFICATION AND INSPECTION
(ATHLONE) REF NO: WCMD 76/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification); A
minimum of 1-year relevant administrative support experience in a Provincial
Regulatory Entity (PRE) service delivery or similar working environment.
Competences: Knowledge in the following: Regulatory frameworks, policies
and best practices that have a bearing on the line functions; Operational
management practices; Modern systems of governance and administration;
Public service procedures, processes and systems; Constitutional, legal and
institutional arrangements governing the South African public sector; Public
Finance Management Act, National Treasury Regulations, Provincial Treasury
Instructions, other financial policies, prescripts, directives and collective
agreements; Functioning of the Province and the activities of sister
departments/related functional areas; General office administration and
database management; General support systems; Information and Record
Management/Administration; Public Finance Management Act, National
Treasury Regulations, Provincial Treasury Instructions Skills needed:
Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Written and verbal communication;
Project Management; Accounting, Finance and Audit; Economic, Financial and
Statistical Analysis; Legal Administration; Reporting ; Problem-solving;
Planning; Organising; Research; Ability to work under pressure; Willingness to
work irregular hours and meet tight deadlines., other financial policies,
prescripts, directives and collective agreements.
DUTIES : Conduct administrative verifications; Conduct physical inspections and
consultations; Rendering of administrative support services; Compile first draft
submissions/reports, presentations and take minutes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PW Davids Tel No: (021) 483 0312 or Tel No: (021) 483 1212
POST 29/213 : REGISTRY CLERK: DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT (ATHLONE) REF NO:
WCMD 73/2025
SALARY : R228 321- R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competences: A good
understanding of the following: Registry duties, practices as well as the ability
to capture data and operate computer; Legislative framework governing the
139
Public Service; Storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working
environment; Work in registry. Skills needed: Computer; Planning and
organising; Good verbal and written Communication; Numeracy; Literacy.
DUTIES : Provide registry counter services; Handle incoming and outgoing
correspondence; Render an effective filing and record management service
both manually and electronically; Operate office machines in relation to the
registry function; Process documents for archiving and/or disposal and
rendering a scanning service at the Walk-in-Centre; It will be advantageous to
have experience in a registry support working environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Searle Tel No: (021) 483 0271
140