PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 45 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 05 DECEMBER 2025
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the
advertisements of vacant posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the
Department is not responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an
advertisement must be addressed to the relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies,
knowledge and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the
department in which the vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST
PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries
to the department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration
must not be approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the
applicable closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies.
Potential candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies
and attending where applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15
(affirmative action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998
should be applied. Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote
representativeness through the filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose
transfer/appointment will promote representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to
employment in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding
the course please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
AGRICULTURE A 03 - 10
BASIC EDUCATION B 11 - 15
COMMUNICATIONS AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES C 16 - 22
CORRECTIONAL SERVICES D 23 - 24
DEFENCE E 25 - 30
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR F 31 - 33
FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMNET G 34 - 36
GOVERNMENT COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION SYSTEM H 37 - 38
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING I 39 - 40
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT J 41 - 46
LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT K 47 - 84
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY L 85 - 91
NATIONAL TREASURY M 92 - 102
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE N 103 - 109
OFFICE OF THE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION O 110 - 123
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT P 124 - 126
TOURISM Q 127 - 136
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
EASTERN CAPE R 137 - 148
GAUTENG S 149 - 154
KWAZULU NATAL T 155 - 158
LIMPOPO U 159 - 161
MPUMALANGA V 162 - 181
NORTHERN CAPE W 182 - 192
WESTERN CAPE X 193 - 300
2
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (DOA)
CLOSING DATE : 22 December 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof (submitted
prior to appointment). Shortlisted applicants for the advertised vacancies will
undergo two pre-entry assessments: a practical assessment and an integrity
assessment, both of which form part of the selection criteria after the interview,
the selection committee will recommend candidates for a generic management
competency assessment, as per the Department of public Service and
Administration (DPSA) directives. The assessment will evaluate candidates’
managerial competencies using standardised tools. NB: Please note that false
or fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will be reported to the South
African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case shall be opened.
Applications: Please submit your application before the closing date as late
applications will not be considered. Do not submit duplicate applications. If
applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for each post. Due to
high volumes, the Department will not acknowledge receipt of applications. If
you have not heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application
to be unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DOA is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/01 : SCIENTIST PRODUCTION - GRADE A REF NO: 3/3/1/19/2025
Directorate: Agricultural Inputs Control
SALARY : R761 157 per annum, (OSD), (all-inclusive salary package to be structure in
accordance with OSD rules)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria): Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : The applicant must be in possession of Grade 12 (Matric) certificate. BSc (Hon)
in Agriculture with Soil Nutrition as a major subject. Compulsory registration
with South African Council for Natural Scientific Professions (SACNSP) as a
Professional Natural Scientist. Job Related Work Experience: A minimum of
three (3) years’ post qualification regulatory experience. Job Related
3
Knowledge: Applicants must have expertise and experience in the
interpretation of Fertilizer, Farm Feeds, Agriculture Remedies and Stock
Remedies Act, 1947 (Act No. 36) together with its regulations and guidelines.
Job Related Skills: Programme & project management. Scientific
methodologies and models. Ability to research and develop independently.
Legal compliance. Data analysis (high level analytical skills). Computer
applications (MS Office Software- Word, Excel and Power Point). Technical
report writing (ability to prepare and present complex reports). Customer
services skills. Communication skills (verbal and written). Drivers’ license.
Presentation skills. Ability to work under pressure. Extended working hours /
overtime may be required.
DUTIES : Develop and implement methodologies, systems and procedures. Identify and
consolidate needs for methodologies, policies, systems and procedures by
developing administrative and compliance regulations and SOP’s. Identify
gaps and develop appropriate interventions by developing guidelines and
conducting training workshops. Monitor and evaluate programme
performance. Perform scientific functions that require interpretation in the
absence of an established framework by writing technical reports. Provide
scientific support and advice through client advisory meetings and via emails.
Develop working relations with client base during liaison meetings with clients.
Create public awareness of the science system through liaison with clients.
Create public awareness of the science system through liaison with
stakeholders. Provide scientific data, information and advice as requested by
responding to technical enquiries. Perform scientific analysis and regulatory
functions. Conduct analysis of scientific data during the evaluation of
applications to register animal feeds, fertilizer and pesticides. Gather and
interpret data, evaluate results and disseminate information by publishing
information packages. Formulate proposals and compile reports by writing
technical submissions when required. Develop and customize scientific models
and techniques by contributing to the technical aspects of regulations. Compile
technical reports. Research and Development. Continuous professional
development to keep up with new technologies and procedures by attending
technical workshops and conferences. Research/literature studies to improve
expertise by reading technical publications. Publish and present research
findings. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils, industries, government
departments and other stakeholders on science and regulatory related matters.
Human Capital and Development. Mentor, train and develop candidate
scientists and others to promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to
sound scientific principles and code of practice. Customer Service
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MJ Mudzunga Tel No: (012) 319 6502
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SPrecruit192025@nda.agric.za
NOTE : African and White Males, and persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 45/02 : SCIENTIST PRODUCTION - GRADE A REF NO: 3/3/1/20/2025
Directorate: Inspection And Quarantine Services
SALARY : R761 157 per annum, (OSD), (all-inclusive salary package to be structure in
accordance with OSD rules)
CENTRE : Western Cape (Stellenboch Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The applicant must be in possession of Grade 12 (Matric) certificate. Science
degree (BSc)(Hon) or relevant qualification. Compulsory registration with
South African Council for Natural Scientific Professions (SACNSP) as a
Professional Natural Scientist. Job Related Work Experience: A minimum of
three (3) years’ post qualification natural scientific experience. Job Related
Knowledge: Applicants must have knowledge of legal compliance: Agricultural
Pests Act, 1983 (Act No. 36) and applicable regulations: Plant Improvement
Act, 1976 (Act No 53); and International Standards for phytosanitary measures-
IPPC & WTO/SPS. Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Knowledge of
Public Service and Departmental prescripts/ policies. Quarantine procedures
and protocols. Diagnostic procedures. Good laboratory practices. Relevant
legislation and regulations, norms and standards. Export and import
procedures and policy. A valid driver’s license. Job Related Skills: Programme
& project management. Scientific methodologies and models. Research &
development experience. Knowledge of legal compliance. Data analysis.
4
Computer-aided scientific applications. Technical report writing. Creating a
high-performance culture. Professional judgement. Presentation skills.
Mentoring. Decision making. Team leadership. Analytical skills. Creativity.
Financial management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
Networking. Computer literacy. People management. Planning and
organizational. Conflict management. Change management. Problem solving
and analysis. Extended working hours. Handling of hazardous chemicals.
DUTIES : Develop and implement methodologies, systems and procedures for the
detection and identification of pests of phytosanitary importance. Identify and
consolidate needs for methodologies, policies, systems and procedures.
Identify gaps and develop appropriate interventions. Monitor and evaluate
programme performance. Perform scientific functions that require
interpretation in the absence of an established framework. Provide scientific
support and advice. Develop working relations with client base. Create public
awareness of the science system. Provide scientific data, information and
advice as requested. Review scientific publications. Perform scientific analysis
and regulatory functions in the area of plant quarantine. Conduct scientific
analysis and analyse scientific data. Gather and interpret data, evaluate results
and disseminate information. Apply appropriate scientific models, principles
and techniques to generate information and knowledge. Formulate proposals
and compile reports. Develop and customize scientific models and techniques.
Research and Development. Continuous professional development to keep up
with new technologies and procedures. Conduct basic and applied research.
Research/literature studies to improve expertise. Publish and present research
findings. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on science-related matters.
Human Capital and Development. Mentor, train and develop candidate
research technicians and others to promote skills/knowledge transfer and
adherence to sound scientific principles and code of practice. Supervise
technical support and processes. Manage the performance and development
of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Theo Pongolo Tel No: (021) 809 1640
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SPrecruit202025@nda.agric.za
NOTE : African Males and Females, and persons with disability are encouraged to
apply.
POST 45/03 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SENIOR MANAGEMENT SERVICES (SMS) REF
NO: 3/3/1/13/2025
Directorate: Human Resource Administration: Gauteng (Pretoria)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria): Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and National
Diploma in the field of Human Resource Management (NQF 6). Minimum of 3
years’ experience in Human Resource Management environment. Job related
knowledge: Public Service Act. Public Service Regulations. Public Finance
Management Act. Human Resource (HR) matters. Reporting procedures.
Compilations of management reports. Labour relations. Supervisory skills and
competencies. Human Resource Administration (HRA) policies and practices.
Public Service Reporting. Computer base HR information systems. Job related
skills: Communications (verbal and written) skills. Strategic planning and
leadership skills. Interpersonal skills. Problem solving skills. Conflict
resolutions skills. Interpretation skills. Analytical skills. Presentation and
facilitation skills. Report writing skills. People management skills.
Administrative skills. Customer focus skills. Computer literacy. Valid Divers’
license. Working irregular hours.
DUTIES : Supervise the allocated resources of the Sub Directorate. Ensure capacity and
development of employees. Evaluate and monitor performance of employees.
Monitor and ensure proper utilization of equipment and reporting thereof.
Provided HR advisory to line managers on HR compensations management,
HR service benefits and conditions. Provide advisory services and respond to
all enquiries received, in line with the government’s legislative frameworks and
the Department’s policies and directives to the Department’s line functionaries
and SMS members. Know and apply legislation, policies and procedures.
Ensure proper maintenance of all relevant databases. Conduct regular
workshops with line functionaries regarding service benefits and conditions.
5
Administer the administration of the capturing of appointments/acting
appointments of SMS members on the PERSAL System. Ensure that HR
systems and processes are in place to enable HR support to SMS members.
Assist in the management and quality assurance of the source documents
submitted and approve. Know and apply legislation, policies and procedure.
Administer and monitor the processing of employee mobility (e.g. translation in
rank, secondments, re-assignments, counteroffers etc.). Ensure compliance
with the legislative frameworks. Quality assure and manage the submission of
documents on the relevant systems. Approve. Plan and facilitate the
administration of conditions of service and service benefits for SMS members.
Administer leave and termination of services. Administer allowances (e.g.
housing, overtime, long service). Provide advice with regard to service benefits
and conditions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sharon Waverley Tel No: (012) 312 9758
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
ASDSMSrecruit132025@nda.agric.za
NOTE : Coloured Males and Coloured, Indian, White Females and persons with
disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 45/04 : CHIEF MONITORING ANALYST REF NO: 3/3/1/14/2025
Chief Directorate: Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria): Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Bachelor’s Degree / National Diploma in
Agricultural Science, Agricultural Economics, Statistics, Auditing, Public
Administration / Management (NQF6). Minimum of 3 years of proven
experience in performance monitoring, evaluation, Project and programme
management, strategic planning preferably in agricultural environment. Job
related knowledge: Knowledge and understanding of the government wide
monitoring and evaluation system. Knowledge of government monitoring and
evaluation policies, standard operating procedures, tools, information systems,
planning, research methodology and related legislation. DPME regulations,
Performance auditing, Project and programme management, Quality
improvement, Ability to customize and package information to user
requirements. Job related skills: Computer literacy, Analytical and research
skills, Communication and interpersonal skills, Presentation skills, Problem
solving skills, Report writing skills. A valid driver’s license. Willingness to travel
and work irregular hours.
DUTIES : Coordinate organisational performance analysis against predetermined
objectives. Coordinate analysis on organisational performance reporting.
Analyse state of performance controls and inform continuous improvements to
satisfy prescribed performance standards for accountability and transparency.
Use analysis findings to inform agenda on capacity building/advisory to achieve
improved organisational performance. Support use of analysis findings to
proactively overcome challenges, develop guiding documents and tools and
enhance management decision making process.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Evans Kgasago Tel No: (012) 312 8063/8068
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
CMArecruit142025@nda.agric.za
NOTE : Coloured, Indians, White Males and Females, and persons with disability are
encouraged to apply.
POST 45/05 : SENIOR ORGANIZATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER REF NO:
3/3/1/15/2025
Directorate: Human Resource Utilization and Development
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria): Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a National Diploma in Management
Services / Operations Management / Production Management, Organizational
and Work study qualifications (NQF level 6). Minimum of one (1) year
experience. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of the Public Service and
Departmental prescripts / policies. Work study principles and techniques, Job
design and job profile compilation, Policies, procedure and prescripts,
6
Research / analysis, Job analysis and evaluation. Job related skills: Planning
and organizing, Communication, Interpersonal relations, Accuracy,
thoroughness and timorousness, Facilitation and presentation, Interpretation
of policies and analytical skills. Be willing to travel and work long extended
hours. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Conduct job analysis and job evaluation: acknowledge all requests received,
identify relevant role-players, conduct interview to obtain relevant information,
identify organisation deficiencies, benchmark posts, complete relevant
Compensate-Evaluate documents, compile final documents and present
recommendations to the JE panel. Render support regarding the provision of
secretariat services for committees: arrange venue for meetings, capture JE
data on Compensate-Evaluate system, prepare files for JE panels, capture
information during JE panel meetings into Compensate-Evaluate system,
Update JE documents with amended information, update JE database and
filing of JE documents. Compilation of job descriptions: gather relevant
information from the available resources (including research, benchmarking,
etc), arrange meetings and gather information with relevant role players,
analyse gathered information and consult stakeholders. Undertake
organisation and post establishment investigation: develop term of reference
for interventions, undertake research / benchmark to obtain all necessary
information, analyse and process information, undertake functional analysis,
determine post establishment needs and make recommendations and draft
optimization structure and job descriptions. Undertake investigations to
optimize work procedures and methods: Gather and analyse information,
compile documents (report etc) of analysed information with recommendations
and compile draft report with recommendations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Lexy Manamela Tel No: (012) 312 9569
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SODPrecruit152025@nda.agric.za
NOTE : White Males and African, White Females, and persons with disability are
encouraged to apply.
POST 45/06 : BURSARY OFFICER REF NO: 3/3/1/16/2025 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Sector Education and Training
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria): Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a National Diploma in Human Resources
Development / Public Administration / Office Management / Education (NQF6).
Minimum of 2 years of experience in bursary administration, information
management, database management and working with students in institutions
of higher learning. Job related knowledge: Project management, Monitoring
and Evaluation, Skills Development Act, SAQA Act, Further Education and
Training Qualification Act. Job related skills: Facilitation & Project Management
skills, Planning, Initiative, Interpersonal skills and Problem solving. A valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : Render recruitment and selection of department’s bursary holders. Conduct
needs analysis annually to identify and prioritize skills in agriculture and
produce annual bursary adverts. Facilitate the advertisement of bursary
opportunities in the national print and electronic media. Distribute the advert
and posters to the relevant stakeholders (Provincial Departments of
Agriculture, municipalities, ARC, High School, Tertiary Institutions, community
libraries, labour regional office, internet/intranet and members of the public.
Conduct response handling on bursary application and execute the following:
Receive, sort and capture application forms in response to the advert. Draft
and send regret and acknowledgement letters and request outstanding
documents. Conduct preliminary selection using the 14 points system of all
relevant applications and prepare files for the selection committee. Organize
and carry out all logistical arrangement to host the National Bursary Committee
(NBC) meeting which finalizes bursary awards. Compile a comprehensive list
of successful candidates approved by the selection committee. Prepare
bursary award letters for new bursary holders in various fields of studies and
informed candidates about the success of the bursary application. Coordinate
the signing of bursary contracts by successful candidates. Respond to
telephone queries and appeal letters from members of the public including
emails and physical visits. Inform various institutions about new and current
7
bursaries. Render administration and information management services.
Create and continuously update files for each bursary holder with relevant
documents. Populate and update databases: such as database of all
beneficiaries, database of discontinued and suspension of studies, database
of National Bursary Committee (NBC). Prepare financial guarantee letters for
old bursary holders who are continuing with their studies, bursary
reinstatement letters and bursary extension letters. Prepare and send
confirmation list of all bursary holders of institution of learning. Compile fees
structure per institution hosting DoA bursary holders and process payments of
tuition, accommodation, books, meals and monthly allowance. Continuously
analyse and verify the students accounts. Monitor expenditure of bursary funds
by beneficiaries and compile monthly and quarterly reports thereof. Reconcile
on monthly basis amount paid to institutions as per drawdown schedule of
payments done by NFSAS against the approved fees structure. Compilation of
reports. Receive, verify and process invoices payments of bursary funds to
high school bursary holders. Compile Annual Report on the implementation of
the External Bursary Scheme. Compile briefing reports of bursary awards.
Compile ToRs of the bursary monitoring meetings. Compile minutes of the
meetings. Compile and package necessary information (evidence) required by
Auditor-General during auditing period. Conduct bursary monitoring meetings.
Execute all logistical arrangements for bursary monitoring meeting (arrange
venues, transport, invitation, agenda, documents etc). Conduct monitoring
meetings at institutions of higher learning where DoA bursary holders are
registered. Orientation meetings to check settlement of new bursary holders
and to ensure that they have all resources. Group monitoring meetings to
address bursary holders on cross cutting issues like External Bursary Policy
and procedures, do’s and don’ts, what is covered by the bursary etc. Meetings
with financial aid officers at institutions of higher learning and principals of
schools to verify if bursary funds paid is used for the purpose it is meant for.
Facilitate job / experiential placement of bursary holders within the department
and with the relevant industries. Compile a list of bursary holder who need
experiential / internship training or vacation work annually. Advise bursary
holders to develop job search skills such as CV writing and job interview skills.
Lobbying with employers from the sectors to recruit DoA completing bursary
holders. Link bursary holders with companies and organisations after
completion of studies. Provide secretarial support and general administrative
support during interviews conducted to appoint completing bursary holders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Phillemon Mathebula Tel No: (012) 319 7843
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
BOrecruit162025@nda.agric.za
NOTE : African, White, Indian Males and White, Indian Females, and persons with
disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 45/07 : SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTITIONER: DEMAND MANAGEMENT REF NO:
3/3/1/17/2025
Directorate: Demand And Acquisition Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria): Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a National Diploma in Financial
Management /Logistics/ Purchasing Management/ Supply Chain
Management/ Public Administration (NQF level 6). Minimum of 1 year
experience in (SCM) Demand Management and Acquisition Management. Job
related knowledge: Knowledge of public sector procurement processes.
Supply Chain Management Policy Framework or Guide to accounting officers.
Public Financial Management Act, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework
Act, CIDB prescripts, Treasury Regulations and other SCM prescripts. Job
related skills: Supervisory skills, Good interpersonal relations, Time
management skills, Computer literacy, Good written and verbal communication
skills, Organizing and office administration skills, good data analysis and report
interpretation skills. Ability to work under pressure and deliver to tight
deadlines. Ability to develop solutions to a variety of problems in line with SCM
guidelines and departmental policies. A Valid divers’ license.
DUTIES : Provide administration support on functional planning and operations for
Demand Management: Render administrative activities regarding procurement
planning of goods, works or services for the unit. Collate, verify and consolidate
8
Demand Management Plans to produce Departmental Integrated Demand
Management Plan. Draw reports on BAS to check, verify and confirm the
allocated budget per office and their expenditure. Supervise and render
demand and acquisition clerical services: Update and maintain supplier
database. Ensure that suppliers are captured and registered on the system.
Request and receive quotations. Capture specification on the electronic
purchasing system. Ensure that all orders are placed on time. Issue and
receive bid documents. Provide secretarial or logistical support during the bid
consideration and contracts conclusions. Administer requisitions and conduct
market analysis: Check, analyse and submit requests to quotation units daily.
Conduct market analysis on requisitions. Provide integrated monthly
requisition spreadsheet. Provide effective document control, filling and
administrative support: File all documents including deviation memos and other
relevant memos. File terms of reference electronically and manually.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Goolam Tel No: (012) 312 8395
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SCPDMrecruit172025@nda.agric.za
NOTE : African, Coloured Males and African, Coloured Females, and persons with
disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 45/08 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: 3/3/1/18/2025
Directorate: Plant Health
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria): Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate. No experience
required. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well
as the ability to capture data, operate a computer and collecting statistics.
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working
environment. Job related skills: Language skills, good communication skills
(verbal and written), Planning and organisation skills, Computer literacy,
Interpersonal relations, Flexibility and Ability to work within a team.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers and
statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles. Distribute documents / packages to various stakeholders as
required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the component. Type letters
and / or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the incoming
and outgoing document register of the component. Taking and drafting of
minutes. Provide supply chain clerical support services within the component.
Liaise within internal and external stakeholders in relation to procurement of
goods and services. Obtain quotations complete procurement forms for the
purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of office stationery. Keep and
maintain the asset register of the component. Provide personnel administration
clerical support services within the component. Maintain a leave register for the
component. Keep and maintain personnel records in the component. Keep and
maintain the attendance register of the component. Arrange travelling and
accommodation. Provide financial administration support services in the
component. Capture and update expenditure of the component. Check
correctness of subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit to manager
for approval. Handle telephone accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Thozama Nonqane Tel No: (012) 312 6213
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
ACrecruit182025@nda.agric.za
NOTE : White, Indian Males and Indian, Coloured Females, and persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 45/09 : REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: 3/3/1/21/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), (Plus additional 37% in lieu of benefits)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria): Head Office:
Directorate: Office Of the Minister (X1 Post)
Office Of the Deputy Minister (X1 Post)
9
REQUIREMENTS : Must be in possession of grade 12 (matric) certificate. No experience required.
Job Related Work Knowledges: Knowledge of registry duties, practices as well
as the ability to capture data, and operate computer. Working knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working
environment. Understating of the work in registry. Job Related Skills: Planning
and organising. Computer literacy. Language. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Teamwork.
DUTIES : Provide registry counter services. Attend to clients. Handle telephonic and
other enquiries received. Receive and register hand delivered mail/files.
Handle incoming and outgoing correspondence. Receive all mails. Sort,
register and dispatch mail. Distribute notices on registry issues. Render an
effective and record management services. Opening and close files according
to record classification system. Filling/storage, tracing (electronically/manually)
and retrieval of documents and files. Complete index cards for all files.
Operating office machines in relation to the registry function. Open and
maintain Franking machine register. Frank post, record money and update
register daily. Undertake spot checks on post to ensure no private post is
included. Lock post in postbag for messengers to deliver to Post Office. Open
& maintain remittance register. Record all valuable articles as prescribed in the
remittance register. Hand delivers and signs over remittances to finances.
Send wring remittance back to sender via registered post and record
references number in register. Keep daily record of number of letters franked
Process documents for archiving and / disposal. Electronic scanning of filles.
Sort and packaging files for archives and distribution. Compile list of
documents to be archived and submit to the supervisor. Keep records for
archived documents.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Godfrey Matloga Tel No: (012) 312 9416
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
RCrecruit212025@nda.agric.za
NOTE : African Males and Females, and person with disabilities are encouraged to
apply
POST 45/10 : DRIVER/MESSENGER REF NO: 3/3/1/22/2025
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04), (Plus 37% in lieu of service benefits)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria): Head Office:
Directorate: Office of The Minister (X1 Post)
Office Of the Deputy Minister (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Must be in possession of grade 10/ ABET qualification. The candidate must
have 7 months’ relevant experience. Job Related Work Experience:
Knowledge of THE city (ies) in which the function will be performed. Job
Related Skills: Must have organising skills and good communication and
interpretation skills. Valid code 8 Drivers license.
DUTIES : Drive light and medium vehicles to transport passengers and deliver other
items (mails, documents, office equipment). Collect, distribute, and control
movement of documents. Do routine maintenance on the allocated vehicle and
report defects timely. Perform daily trip and post trip vehicle inspection to
ensure that the vehicle is always in the best condition. Complete all the
required and prescribed records and logbooks regarding the vehicle and the
goods handled. Maintain accurate and up to date schedule trip sheets, i.e. log
official trips, daily mileage. Collect and deliver documentation and related items
in the departmental / branch or any other component within the department and
related external parties. Ensure proper and secure control over movement of
documents. Assist in Registry functions. File incoming correspondence and
help trace the files. Copy and fax documents.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Godfrey Matloga Tel No: (012) 312 9416
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20
Steve Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
DMrecruit222025@nda.agric.za
NOTE : African Males and Females, and persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
10
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF BASIC EDUCATION
The Department of Basic Education is committed to providing equal opportunities and practicing
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote equity through the filling of all numeric
targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication
of race, gender and disability status is required. Preference will be given to underrepresented groups as
per the DBE Employment Equity Targets. Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Submitted via post to: Private Bag X895, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-deliver to: The
Department of Basic Education, 222 Struben Street, Pretoria or you can email
your application at HR@dbe.gov.za. Please visit the Department of
Education’s website at www.education.gov.za or the Department of Public
Service and Administration vacancy circulars at www.dpsa.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr M Segowa/Ms N Monyela
CLOSING DATE : 22 December 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the most recently approved Z83 Application
for Employment Form, obtainable from the DBE Website or any Public Service
Department/Webpage. Use of the old Z83 Form will result in disqualification.
The Z83 must be completed in full and page 2 duly signed. A clear indication
of the post and reference number that is being applied for must be indicated
on your Z.83. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 with a
detailed Curriculum Vitae (only). Certified copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents will be requested from shortlisted candidates on or before
the day of the interview. Successful candidates will be subjected to Personnel
Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset record checks,
qualification and employment verification including social media profiles).
Appointment is subject to positive results of the security clearance process.
The successful candidate will be required to sign an annual performance
agreement and, where applicable, annually disclose his/her financial interests.
All applicants are required to declare any conflict or perceived conflict of
interest, to disclose memberships of Boards and directorships that they may
be associated with. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
requirements will not be considered. Applications received after the closing
date or faxed applications will not be considered.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 45/11 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CURRICULUM IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
REF NO: DBE/27/2025
Branch: Curriculum Policy, Support and Monitoring
Chief Directorate: Curriculum Implementation and Monitoring
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : The applicant must be in a possession of a relevant Bachelor’s degree (NQF
level 7) or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA; The incumbent
must have five (5) years’ experience at a Senior managerial level and in high
level planning and management; The successful applicant must have
extensive knowledge of, and insight and experience in the broad education
policy framework that guides the provision of education in South African
schools, curriculum development and support as it applies to the National
Curriculum Framework (NCF) for the 0-4 years old as well as the National
Curriculum Statement and Curriculum Assessment Policy Statement (CAPS)
for Grades R to 12; Process Competencies: Knowledge Management, Service
Delivery Innovation, Problem-Solving and Analysis; Client Orientation,
Customer Focus and Communication Skills. Core Competencies: Strategic
Capacity and Leadership, People Management and Empowerment, Financial
Management and Change Management, promotion communication,
innovation, creativity and ability to prepare speeches; the candidate must be
confident, trustworthy, accurate, adaptable and diplomatic; Applicant must
have a valid driver’s license and willing to travel extensively.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing strategic leadership,
managing, guiding and supporting the Chief Directorate: Curriculum
Implementation and Monitoring in its objective to improve the quality of Basic
Education for the 0-4 years olds in Grades R to 12 through improving teacher
11
capacity and practices; Increasing learner participation and success rate to
meet the National Development Plan and Action Plan 2019 towards Schooling
2030; Collaborating with state institutions, National and International Bodies as
well as NGO’s; Developing and ensuring implementation of Norms and
Standards in line with section 3 and 8 of the National Education Policy Act;
Strengthening School Based Assessment to enhance teaching practice;
Developing and implementing a strategy to promote the utilisation of data to
enhance teaching quality and efficiency; Developing and implementing
business processes on the work done to inform Norms and Standards;
Improving the quality of Early Childhood Development (ECD); Improving the
access of children to qualify for ECD below Grade 1 as well as the grade
promotion of learners through Grade 1 to 9 phases of school; Improving the
access of Inclusive Education; Ensuring that all children remain effectively
enrolled in school up to the year in which they turn 15; The incumbent will be
responsible for the development and maintenance of policies and programmes
to ensure quality implementation of the NCF and the CAPS, including having
responsibility for quality programmes for children experiencing barriers to
learning; Increasing the number of learners in Grade 6 who have mastered the
minimum language and mathematics competencies; Increase the number of
learners in Grade 9 who by the end of the year have mastered the minimum
language and mathematics competencies; Implementation of the IIAL and GET
Strategy and increasing the number of Grade 12 learners who became eligible
for a Bachelor’s programme at University.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Segowa Tel No: (012) 357 4291 or Ms N Monyela Tel No: (012) 357 3294
NOTE : A Certificate for SMS pre-entry programme is required for all SMS
appointments (submitted prior to appointment) the full details of the outlined
requirements and course information can be sourced by following the link
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry programme. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Following the interview and
the technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend
a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA
Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The
incumbent will have to sign an annual performance agreement as well as
annually disclose his/her financial interests and be subjected to a security
clearance.
POST 45/12 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: LEGAL AND LEGISLATIVE SERVICES REF NO:
DBE/28/2025
Branch: Finance and Administration
Chief Directorate: Legal and Legislative
(Re-advertisement, people who have previously applied need not to re-apply)
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : The applicants must be in a possession of a relevant Bachelor of Law Degree
(NQF Level 7) or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA; A Master’s
Degree in Law will be an advantage; At least 10 years working experience in
the Legal field and with a minimum of 5 years’ experience at a Senior
Managerial Level; Experience in Education Law is a pre-requisite; The
candidate must be admitted as an Attorney or Advocate; The post requires a
person with excellent leadership and strategic management skills; Excellent
communication skills (verbal and written); Computer literate including MS
Office software (Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint and Access); Research and
policy formulation; Presentation skills; Analytical and problem-solving skills;
Candidate must be confident, trustworthy, accurate, adaptable and diplomatic
A valid driver’s license; Ability to work long hours and travel extensively.
Process Competencies: Knowledge Management; Service Delivery
Innovation; Problem Solving and Analysis; Client Orientated and Customer
Focus and Communication skills. Core Competencies: Strategic capability and
Leadership; Programme and project management; Financial management;
Knowledge management; People management and Empowerment; Promotion
of communication, Innovation and Creativity.
12
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for managing two Directorates:
Legal Services and Legislative Services; Providing litigation support for
Provincial Education Departments as well as drafting and monitoring
implementation of education legislation (Bills, Acts and Regulations pertaining
to the DBE); Providing legal advice to the entire Department; Coordinating,
monitoring, evaluating and supporting the effective implementation of DBE
legislation; Administering legislation of statutory bodies; Rendering a legal
interpretation and advisory service to the DBE; Managing court cases on behalf
of the Minister and DG of DBE; Drafting advice on national and international
agreements and negotiating the terms of the agreement with parties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Segowa Tel No: (012) 357 4291 or Ms N Monyela Tel No: (012) 357 3294
NOTE : A Certificate for SMS pre-entry programme is required for all SMS
appointments (submitted prior to appointment), the full details of the outlined
requirements and course information can be sourced by following the link
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry programme. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Following the interview and
the technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend
a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA
Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The
incumbent will have to sign an annual performance agreement as well as
annually disclose his/her financial interests and be subjected to a security
clearance.
POST 45/13 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS AND ASSESSMENTS REF
NO: DBE/29/2025
Branch: Curriculum Policy, Support and Monitoring
Chief Directorate: Public Examinations and Assessments
Re-advertisement, people who have previously applied need not to re-apply.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : The applicants must be in a possession of a Bachelor’s degree (NQF Level 7)
or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA; 5 Years' experience at
senior managerial level; Experience in the education sector; Understanding of
policies governing Public Examination and Assessment; Process
Competencies: Knowledge Management, Service Delivery Innovation,
Problem Solving and Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer Focus,
Communication skills. Core Competencies: Strategic Capacity and
Leadership, People Management and Empowerment, Financial Management
and Change Management.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the managing and
administration of the National Examination Assessment; Managing the setting
of high quality Grade 12 examination question paper; Managing and Enhancing
the National Computer System for examinations and assessment in the GET
and FET bands; Managing and Improving the certification process relating to
Senior Certificate and National Senior Certificate; Managing the administration
of International Assessment relating to TIMSS, PIRLS, SACMEQ and TALIS;
Managing the administration of the GEC pilot; Developing and assessment
regime for the introduction of mother tongue Based Bilingual Education in the
GET band; Developing high quality test items for diagnostic, summative and
systematic assessment in the GET bands; Promoting the integration of
formative assessment in teaching and learning in both GET and FET bands;
Implementing a General Education Certificate at the end of Grade 9;
Implementing a model of systemic evaluation that will provide valuable data on
the performance of the system; Conducting assessment to determine the
readiness of Grade R learners to grade 1; Supporting and Coordinating the
implementation of the examinations across the nine provincial education
departments; Improving the quality assurance of summative school based
assessment in both the GET and FET bands; Improving the quality of marking
in the Public Examinations; Providing accurate and reliable data on learner
performance in the GET and FET bands.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Segowa Tel No: (012) 357 4291 or Ms N Monyela Tel No: (012) 357 3294
13
NOTE : A Certificate for SMS pre-entry programme is required for all SMS
appointments (submitted prior to appointment), the full details of the outlined
requirements and course information can be sourced by following the link
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry programme. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment Following the interview and
the technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend
a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA
Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The
incumbent will have to sign an annual performance agreement as well as
annually disclose his/her financial interests and be subjected to a security
clearance.
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/14 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RESEARCH COORDINATION, MONITORING AND
EVALUATION REF NO: DBE/30/2025 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Business Intelligence
Chief Directorate: Strategic Planning, Research, Evaluation and Monitoring
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : The applicants must be in a possession of an appropriate Bachelor’s Degree
(NQF Level 7) or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA; At least four
years of relevant technical experience in research, monitoring and evaluation
with supervisory responsibilities is required, in project management,
coordinating research projects, and coordinating work amongst team
members; At least two years of experience in managing evaluations in the
education sector, involving aspects such as the coordination of large data
collection exercises, data management, questionnaire design for school -
based survey and service provider management; Knowledge of basic
education regulations and policies; Knowledge of the latest research on
education system reform and a proven personal track record of undertaking
research, monitoring and evaluation in the basic education sector will be highly
advantageous; Knowledge of relevant national education datasets and working
experience of such datasets will be highly advantageous; Ability and
experience in writing research reports where the candidate was the primary
author of at least two technical evaluation or research reports; Ability to develop
monitoring tools; and high level skills in the use of the MS Office Suite; Ability
to make presentations to stakeholders; Ability to analyse, interpret and repot
on quantitive as well as qualitive data; Working experience of statistical
packages such as R or STATA.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the
policy outputs of the education system and co-ordinating research; Designing,
managing and supporting large scale evaluation and research studies
commissioned by the Department; Facilitating capacity building on planning,
monitoring and evaluation; Liaising and network with research organisations,
including presenting DBE research at conferences.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Segowa Tel No: (012) 357 4291 or Ms N Monyela Tel No: (012) 357 3294
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise to
demonstrate their skills in a short task as part of the interview and will be
subjected to a security clearance. The successful candidate have to sign an
annual performance agreement, annually disclose his/ her financial interests
and be subjected to a security clearance
POST 45/15 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SECURITY AND ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DBE/31/2025
Branch: Finance and Administration
Chief Directorate: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
14
REQUIREMENTS : The applicant must be in a possession of a Three (3) year relevant post matric
qualification in Security, Risk Management or equivalent qualification; Three
(3) years relevant experience at a supervisory level; A State Security
Management Course will be an added advantage; Must have a PSIRA
registered Grades A, B, C or D security certificates/Fire Fighting and First Aid
Certificate/Advanced Investigation Certificate and a valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for managing security operations
in the Department; Managing of security service contracts; Conducting security
risk/appraisals ensuring compliance with SSA and MPSS; Ensuring and
monitoring adherence to department security system and policies; Ensuring
implementation of security measures; Monitoring and providing strategic
guidance to the Department of security issues as well as security bridges;
Monitoring the extent of adherence to and compliance with security policies
and ensuring that officials with access to sensitive information are vetted;
Promoting and facilitating security awareness programmes; Conducting all
security threats and risk assessments; Advising management regarding
security risks; Planning all security measures and procedures; Implementing
OHS Act and MISS following the State Security Agency (SSA) policies; Liaising
with the SSA and other security agencies to ensure effective security.
Preparing and submitting security reports for consideration by Senior
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Segowa Tel No: (012) 357 4291 or Ms N Monyela Tel No: (012) 357 3294
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise to
demonstrate their skills in a short task as part of the interview and will be
subjected to a security clearance. The successful candidate have to sign an
annual performance agreement, annually disclose his/ her financial interests
and be subjected to a security clearance.
15
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES
The Department is an equal opportunity organisation and intends to promote equity through the filling of
these posts. Candidates whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote the achievement of
employment equity within the Department, will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to the
link quoted in the specific advertisement below. This link requires applicants to
use a Google account. Applications must be submitted with two attachments:
1. A Z83 Form (2021 version), obtainable from the DPSA website (Z83
editable) and 2. A recently updated comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Each
post advert must be accompanied by its own application form for employment
and must be fully completed, initialled and signed by the applicant.
CLOSING DATE : 22 December 2025
NOTE : Applications received after the closing date will not be considered. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications obtained and other related documents on or before the day of the
interview, following communication from Human Resources and will be
subjected to verification by the South African Qualifications Authority.
Candidates in possession of a foreign qualification must also provide an
evaluation certificate issued by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA), at own expense. Failure to submit the requested documents will result
in the application not being considered further. Due to the anticipated large
volume of responses, correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates
only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other will be an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment. After the pre-entry assessments, an oral
interview will be conducted. Suitable candidates will be subjected to personnel
suitability checks (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). By responding to the
advertisement, applicants consent to the collection, processing and storing of
their Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of Personal
Information Act (POPIA) Act No. 4 of 2013. Candidates will therefore be
required to give consent in terms of the POPI Act in order for the Department
to conduct the verifications. Information will be used for the purpose of
recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose of the position/vacancy
you have applied for and will not be shared with third parties without prior
consent, unless required by law. All applicants must declare any conflict or
perceived conflict of interest and must disclose membership of Boards and
directorships associated with. If you have not been contacted within six (6)
months of the closing date, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. The CVs submitted will be destroyed as legislated in the National
Archives Act. In the event that your application is unsuccessful, the Department
will retain your personal information only for audit purposes as required by
policies. All the information requested now or during the process is required for
recruitment purposes. Failure to provide the requested information will result in
your application not being considered further. The Department reserves the
right not to make an appointment to the advertised post(s). The successful
candidate must disclose particulars of all registrable financial interests and sign
an employment contract within one month from the date of assumption of duty.
A Performance Agreement must be concluded and signed within three months
from the date of assumption of duty.
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/16 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BROADCASTING TECHNOLOGIES AND
STRATEGIES REF NO: DDBTS
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (this all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension
Fund, a medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules)
16
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6/7) Degree in Broadcasting/
Telecommunications/ ICT/ Engineering or relevant field, as recognized by the
South African Qualifications Authority. A minimum of three (3) years’
experience in Broadcasting/ Telecommunications/ ICT/ Engineering relevant
environment at Assistant Director/ Supervisory level. Skills / Competencies and
Knowledge: Core competencies: Understanding of digital broadcasting;
Understanding of signal distribution; Understanding Broadcast engineering
principles; Acceptance of responsibility; Communication; Initiatives; Job
Knowledge; Planning and execution; Quality of work; Reliability; Teamwork.
Technical competencies: Broadcasting Infrastructure Development;
Broadcasting engineering; Digital Migration Expertise; Stakeholder
Management and Collaboration; Monitoring and Evaluation.
DUTIES : To manage and coordinate the design and implementation of Broadcasting
Technologies programmes and strategies to support the achievement of the
DCDT strategic objectives. The successful candidate will: Contribute technical
insights to the development of Broadcasting Technologies programmes,
strategies and plans. Coordinate the planning and implementation of national
broadcasting infrastructure projects. Coordinate the implementation of South
Africa’s digital migration strategy from analogue to digital broadcasting and
manage the efficient use of broadcasting spectrum to enhance service quality
and expand access. Provide support on the development and review of
policies, regulations, and technical standards that govern broadcasting
services and technologies, ensuring alignment with national and international
broadcasting frameworks. Support the initiatives related to the adoption and
integration of emerging broadcasting technologies, such as IPTV, OTT (Over-
the-Top) services, and 5G broadcasting, ensuring innovation and
modernization within the sector. Collaborate with industry stakeholders,
including public and private broadcasters, content creators, regulatory bodies
(ICASA), and international broadcasting organizations, to foster partnerships
and drive broadcasting infrastructure development. Conduct oversight
monitoring on the implementation of projects and programmes within the
broadcasting infrastructure directorate. In addition to the above, the key result
areas also require: Project Management, Managing financial resources,
Driving change and operational excellence and Managing compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Beukes at 082 477 9895, Ms N Khosa Tel No: (012) 427 8260, Ms K
Beckers Tel No: (012) 427 8144
APPLICATIONS Application Link Deputy Director: Broadcasting Technologies and Strategies
POST 45/17 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SPECTRUM PLANNING REF NO: DDSP
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
The purpose of the post is to manage and coordinate the implementation of
Spectrum Planning services in support of the DCDT strategic objectives.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (this all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension
Fund, a medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) Degree in Science/ Electrical
Engineering/ ICT or relevant field, as recognized by the South African
Qualifications Authority. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in Science/
Electrical Engineering/ ICT or relevant environment at Assistant Director/
Supervisory level. Skills / Competencies and Knowledge: Core competencies:
In-depth knowledge of radio frequency propagation, modulation and signal
timing; Interference management; Awareness of emerging technologies;
Understanding how spectrum affect market dynamics; Understanding the
economic and social value of spectrum; Evidence-based analysis; Policy
development; Legal and Regulatory framework knowledge; International
Coordination. Technical competencies: Understanding propagation models,
compatibility of different frequency bands; Spectrum Management and
Planning; Policy and Regulatory Development; Technical Radiocommunication
Expertise; Project Management; Understanding coexistence studies; Policy
Analysis.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will: Conduct market research, drafting policies and
legislation, in spectrum. Support in the development of national policies,
guidelines and goal for spectrum use. Contribute technical insights to the
development and review of radio frequency spectrum policy and strategy in line
17
with related legislation, strategy to support the implement of
radiocommunication services. Assist in facilitating the allocation of spectrum
for government services including spectrum for security services in line with
related legislation. Review and supporting the implementation of guidelines to
ensure effective participation at international fora, such as ITU, SADC and
ATU. Provide support in the development of bilateral and multilateral
agreements to facilitate cross border radio frequency spectrum coordination.
Assist with oversight services to monitor the performance of the entities
(strategic, operational and financial performance) to ensure business impact,
financial viability and sustainability. Coordinate the submission of government
services spectrum users during the development of radio regulations (i.e.
spectrum regulations, national radio frequency plan, etc.) Assist with facilitating
engagement with all stakeholders, including private companies, government
agencies, and the public, to understand and address needs of various
spectrum users. Contribute technical insights to the development of country
positions to support the review and revision the radio regulations, the
international treaty governing the use of the radio-frequency spectrum and the
geostationary-satellite and non-geostationary-satellite orbits. Research
spectrum policy trends and market requirements. In addition to the above, the
key result areas also require: Project Management, Managing financial
resources, Driving change and operational excellence and Managing
compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Beukes at 082 477 9895, Ms N Khosa Tel No: (012) 427 8260, Ms K
Beckers Tel No: (012) 427 8144
APPLICATIONS : Application Link Deputy Director: Spectrum Planning
POST 45/18 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SATELLITE AND SPACE COMMUNICATION
SERVICES REF NO: ASDSSCS
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
The purpose of the post is to facilitate the implementation of Satellite and
Space Communication services systems, processes and activities in the
Department.
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (minimum on NQF level 6) as recognized by
the South African Qualifications Authority in Science/ Electrical Engineering/
Satellite Communication or relevant field. Minimum of 3 years’ experience in
Science/ Electrical Engineering/ Satellite Communication or related
environment. Professional Certification, if relevant. Skills / Competencies and
Knowledge: Core competencies: Understanding the basics of satellite link
design and earth stations; Understanding how satellite systems integrate with
terrestrial networks; Inference Analysis and Coordination; Understanding
Constellations and new satellite applications to ensure forward policy looking;
Knowledge of legislations, viz Electronic Communications Act; International
Regulations, familiarity with ITU. Technical competencies: Satellite
Communication basics; Radio frequency Management; Project Management;
Software Tools; Orbital Mechanics & Thermodynamics; Electronics &
Communications Systems; Report writing, input towards policy development
and draft technical reports.
DUTIES : The purpose of the post is to facilitate the implementation of Satellite and
Space Communication services systems, processes and activities in the
Department. The successful candidate will: Assist in project managing satellite
communications initiatives and drafting projects documentation to engage with
national stakeholders, including satellite operators, broadcasters, government
departments, and space agencies, to ensure alignment with national priorities
for space communication. Contribute to the planning, allocation, and
management of radio frequency spectrum for satellite communications,
ensuring optimal and efficient use of satellite frequencies. Compile records of
satellite infrastructure projects contributing to national communication goals
and the broader digital transformation agenda. Contribute to providing
technical guidance on innovation and research in satellite communication
technologies, supporting the development of new satellite services for public,
private, and government use. Facilitate and coordinate stakeholders’
contributions to queries ‘and analysis required from time to time of the
directorate of Satellite and Space Communication Services and preparing
reports as may be required by stakeholders for progress tracking and status
18
reporting to provide regular updates. In addition to the above, the key result
areas also require: Project Management, Managing financial resources,
Driving change and operational excellence and Managing compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Beukes at 082 477 9895, Ms N Khosa Tel No: (012) 427 8260, Ms K
Beckers Tel No: (012) 427 8144
APPLICATIONS : Application Link Assistant Director: Satellite and Space Communication
Services
NOTE : Persons younger than 35 Years of age, are encouraged to apply.
POST 45/19 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: GRAPHIC DESIGN (REF: ASDGD)
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6/7), as recognized by the South
African Qualifications Authority, in Graphic Design / Multimedia Design /
Marketing or relevant field. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in graphic
design, of which two (2) years’ must be at a supervisory level. Skills /
Competencies and Knowledge: Strong communication, client orientation, and
customer-focus skills. Excellent report writing and interpersonal skills. High
levels of integrity, confidentiality and service delivery innovation. Proficiency in
Adobe Creative Suite (Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, Acrobat Pro). Solid
understanding of typography, colour theory, layout design, and digital asset
creation. Ability to work across iOS, Windows, and cloud-based storage.
Knowledge of HTML/CSS is advantageous. Strong organisational skills and
ability to manage multiple projects in a fast-paced environment.
DUTIES : The purpose of the post is to implement graphic design services to support the
Department’s communication objectives across digital, print and social media
platforms. The successful candidate will play a central role in delivering the
Department’s visual communication strategy across digital, print, and social
media platforms. Key responsibilities include: executing graphic design
activities that support the Department’s broader communication objectives.
Conceptualising, planning, and producing creative design projects aligned with
the Department’s visual identity and digital transformation objectives.
Developing graphic designs for both internal and external Departmental
programmes and events. Creating high quality digital assets, using Adobe
Creative Suite. Ensuring excellence in typography, imagery, layout and overall
visual communication. Working closely with internal clients to define briefs,
objectives, and project requirements. Presenting ideas, concepts, and artwork
to clients for feedback and approval. Staying abreast of emerging design
trends, technologies and industry best-practices. Standardising templates,
forms and documents according to brand guidelines. Managing and organising
departmental libraries of photographs, images and vector files. Review
production outputs with external service providers to ensure quality.
Contributing to key result areas such as Project Management, Financial
Resource Management, Driving Change and Operational Excellence, and
Managing Information.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Beukes at 082 477 9895, Ms N Khosa Tel No: (012) 427 8260, Ms K
Beckers Tel No: (012) 427 8144
APPLICATIONS : Application Link Assistant Director: Graphic Design
NOTE : Persons younger than 35 Years of age, are encouraged to apply.
POST 45/20 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DEMAND MANAGEMENT REF NO: ASDDM
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6 / 7) as recognized by the South
African Qualifications Authority in Supply Chain Management / Logistics
Management/ Procurement/ Finance or relevant field. NQF level 7 qualification
will be an added advantage. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in the
Supply Chain Management environment, of which at least two (2) years’ at
supervisory level. Skills / Competencies And Knowledge: Job Knowledge,
Technical Skills, Acceptance of Responsibility, Quality of work, Reliability,
Initiative, Communication, Computer skills, Report writing, Client Orientation
and customer fucus, Honesty and integrity, Service Delivery Innovation,
Interpersonal Skills Confidentiality, Management of Human Resources,
19
Treasury Regulations, Treasury instruction notes, Supply Chain Management
Framework, PFMA, Audit investigation, Risk Management, Budgeting
Management, Modified Cash Standards, SCM framework, Human Resource
Management, SCM Guide for Accounting Officers.
DUTIES : The purpose of the post is to coordinate the development, implementation, and
monitoring of the departmental demand management plan in line with the
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), National Treasury Regulations, and
Supply Chain Management (SCM) frameworks. The successful candidate will:
coordinate (synergize), review, research, analyse and plan the procurement
needs of the department. Research the relevant identified needs in line with
the Supply Chain strategy. Analyse requirements, undertake research,
determine and develop proposals for implementation. Assess the results of the
research on the market, interpret and develop proposals for procurement
methodology, ensure compliance with quality requirements and determine
whether specifications should contain any special conditions. Coordinate
review, collect and collate information for the annual procurement plan. Collect
information from the relevant role players according to the prescribed template.
Check and analyse the information, confirm the availability of the budget, and
confirm alignment with strategic and other objectives. Determine whether a
specification for the relevant commodity exists. Compile and publish request
for proposals as required. Serve as a secretariat in the Bid Evaluation and Bid
Adjudication Committees. Conduct supplier evaluation and implement
procurement policies and procedures in line with the relevant prescripts and
legislation. Perform general quality assurance of information in the supplier
database (e.g. check and verify supporting documents). Added advantage will
be experience in ensuring the submission of the specification to the Bid
Specification Committee; including verifying correctness of bid documents
before advertising and facilitate arrangements and coordination of tender
briefing sessions, preparing tender documents upon receipt from the Bid
Specification Committee. Administer the Bid Evaluation processes and the Bid
adjudication processes; facilitating the reconciliation of submission register
with the tender documents received. In addition to the above, the key result
areas also require: Project Management, Managing financial resources,
Driving change and operational excellence and Managing compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Beukes at 082 477 9895, Ms N Khosa Tel No: (012) 427 8260, Ms K
Beckers Tel No: (012) 427 8144
APPLICATIONS : Application Link Assistant Director: Demand Management
NOTE : Persons younger than 35 Years of age, are encouraged to apply.
POST 45/21 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT REF NO: ASDAM
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6 / 7) as recognized by the South
African Qualifications Authority in Supply Chain Management / Logistics
Management / Procurement / Finance or relevant field. A minimum of three (3)
years’ experience in supply chain management environment of which at least
two (2) years’ at supervisory level. Skills / Competencies And Knowledge:
Communications, Computer skills, Report writing, Client Orientation and
Customer Focus, Honesty and integrity, Service delivery innovation,
Interpersonal skills, Confidentiality, Central Supplier Database, E-Tender
portal, Preferential Procurement Frameworks, Treasury Regulations, Public
Finance Management Act, Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment,
Treasury instructions.
DUTIES : The purpose of the post is to facilitate the procurement of goods and services
and review summary of quotation specification as well as all documents by the
supplier in order to comply with prescribed requirements. The successful
candidate will: manage sourcing of quotations from accredited suppliers
through the Central Supplier Database, conduct supplier evaluation and
implement procurement policies and procedures in line with relevant prescripts
and legislations, facilitate the recording of goods requisitions from the initiator
on the requisition register, ensure submission of the specification to the Bid
Specification Committee, verify the correctness of bid documents before
advertising and facilitate arrangements and coordination of tender briefing
sessions, prepare tender documents upon receipt from the Bid Specification
Committee, administer the Bid Evaluation processes and the Bid Adjudication
20
process, facilitate the reconciliation of submission register with the tender
documents received, serve as a secretariat in the Bid Evaluation and Bid
Adjudication Committees. In addition to the above, the key result areas also
require: Project Management, Managing financial resources, Driving change
and operational excellence and Managing compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Beukes at 082 477 9895, Ms N Khosa Tel No: (012) 427 8260, Ms K
Beckers Tel No: (012) 427 8144
APPLICATIONS : Application Link Assistant Director: Acquisition
NOTE : Persons younger than 35 Years of age, are encouraged to apply.
POST 45/22 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CONTRACT MANAGEMENT REF NO: ASDCM
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6 / 7) as recognized by the South
African Qualifications Authority in Supply Chain Management / Logistics
Management or relevant field. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in
supply chain management environment, of which at least two (2) years’ at
supervisory level. Skills / Competencies And Knowledge: Communications,
Computer skills, Report writing, Client Orientation and Customer Focus,
Honesty and integrity, Service delivery innovation, Interpersonal skills,
Confidentiality, Central Supplier Database, E-Tender Portal, Preferential
Procurement Frameworks, Treasury Regulations, Public Finance Management
Act, Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment, Treasury Instructions.
DUTIES : The purpose of the post is to draft and review contracts /service level
agreements / addendums and to manage contract life cycles by attending to
contractual queries, issuing notices of default and termination. The successful
candidate will: assist with service level agreements/contractual legalities,
policies and practices for internal users and clients, analyse contract, SLA
requirements, special provisions, terms and conditions of applicable laws,
regulations, policies and business processes. Create and review measurable
vendor performance evaluation documents. Capturing and uploading
contract/SLA and notices of terminations. Attend to variation and expansion of
contract, amendment of contract conditions, price adjustments, contract
cancellations and restrictions. Propose and advise on remedial actions in case
of poor or non-performance by service providers. Assist in prevention or
resolving contractual disputes and propose the implementation of remedial
plan. Monitor and compile monthly reports on the performance of appointed
contractors. Issue notices of expiry of contracts timely and facilitate the review
and close-up meetings. Serve as a secretariat in the Bid Evaluation and Bid
Adjudication Committees. Conduct supplier evaluation and implement
procurement policies and procedures in line with the relevant prescripts and
legislations. Added advantage will be experience in ensuring the submission
of the specification to the Bid Specification Committee; including verifying
correctness of bid documents before advertising and facilitate arrangements
and coordination of tender briefing sessions, preparing tender documents upon
receipt from the Bid Specification Committee. Administer the Bid Evaluation
processes and the Bid adjudication processes; facilitating the reconciliation of
submission register with the tender documents received. In addition to the
above, the key result areas also require: Project Management, Managing
financial resources, Driving change and operational excellence and Managing
compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Beukes at 082 477 9895, Ms N Khosa Tel No: (012) 427 8260, Ms K
Beckers Tel No: (012) 427 8144
APPLICATIONS : Application Link Assistant Director: Contract Management
NOTE : Persons younger than 35 Years of age, are encouraged to apply.
POST 45/23 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: QUALITY AND INTEGRATED
ASSURANCE REF NO: SAOQIA
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) as recognized by the South
African Qualifications Authority in Internal Auditing/ Auditing/ Commerce/
Accounting. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in auditing or internal
21
audit quality assurance. The following are recommended certifications: CIA/
CISA/ CGEIT/ CRMA/ CA. Skills / Competencies And Knowledge:
Communications, Computer skills, Report writing, Client Orientation and
customer focus, Honesty and integrity, Service delivery innovation. Technical
competencies: Corporate Governance and Business Acumen; Compliance, IT,
and Performance Audit; Risk Management and Quality Assurance; and
Evaluation of internal controls.
DUTIES : The purpose of the post is to manage and provide quality assurance and audit
committee technical support; integrated assurance and portfolio integrated
audit action plan services. The successful candidate will: Conduct the
implementation of the Quality Assurance and Improvement Programme
(including CD:IA Capacity Development), which includes conducting the
implementation of the Internal Quality Assurance and Improvement Program
(incl. – Plans, Tools, Peer Reviews, Assessment of Internal Audit
Engagements prior to internal audit report sign off). Conduct the provision of
the Departmental Audit Committee and Portfolio Integrated Audit Committee
Forum, secretariat and technical support services. Conduct the provision of
Integrated Assurance Services, which includes conducting the coordination of
the implementation of the IAF and ensure that the strategic role of the Internal
Audit Activity is adequately fulfilled. Conduct the provision of portfolio
integrated audit action plan coordination, assessments and reporting. In
addition to the above, the key result areas also require: Driving change and
operational excellence and managing compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Beukes at 082 477 9895, Ms N Khosa +27 12 427 8260, Ms K Beckers
+27 12 427 8144
APPLICATIONS : Application Link Senior Administrative Officer: Quality Assurance and
Integrated Assurance
NOTE : Persons younger than 35 Years of age, are encouraged to apply.
22
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONAL SERVICES
APPLICATIONS : Kindly indicate the reference number on the subject line for emailed
applications. Indicate the reference number and position you are applying for
on your application form (Z83) and post OR email your complete application to
the address as indicated below: Send your complete application to:
Free State and Northern Cape Region: The Regional Commissioner Free
State and Northern Cape, Recruitment Section, P/Bag X20530, Bloemfontein,
9300 OR hand deliver at: 103 Zastron Street, Agrimed Building, Bloemfontein,
9300 OR you can email your application to FSNCHRM@dcs.gov.za. Contact
persons: Ms Mokuni NJ/ Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms. Ramncwana B/ Ms Radebe T
(0823069027).
Western Cape Region: The Regional Commissioner Western Cape,
Recruitment Section, P/Bag X14, Goodwood, 7459 OR hand deliver at:
Peninsula Drive, Monte Vista, 7460 OR you can email your application to
WCHRM@dcs.gov.za. Contact persons: Ms NA Mdladlamba Tel No: (021) 550
6014 / Ms A Reddy (021) 559 7929 / Mr S Sikisazane (021) 558 0108 / Ms NC
Sotyibi (021) 558 0518.
CLOSING DATE : 22 December 2025 @ 15h45
NOTE : Candidates must comply with the minimum appointment requirements. CV’s
should be aligned to reflect one’s degree of compliance with the advert
requirements and responsibilities. It is the sole responsibility of an applicant to
ensure that their application reaches DCS before the closing date. Kindly
indicate the reference number on the subject line for emailed applications. The
Department of Correctional Services reserves the right not to fill any of these
advertised posts. All costs associated with an application will be borne by the
applicant. The Department of Correctional Services is an equal opportunity
employer. The Department will take into consideration the objectives of Section
195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996 (Act 108 of
1996) and the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act 55 of 1998) in filling of these
vacancies. It is our intention to promote representivity in respect of race,
gender and disability through the filling of these positions. In support of this
strategy, applicants need to indicate race, gender and disability status on the
application form/CV. Applicants who have retired from the Public Service with
a specific determination that they cannot be re-appointed or have been
declared medically unfit will not be considered. Please take note that
correspondence will only be conducted with the shortlisted candidates. If you
have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of the
advertisement, please accept that your application is unsuccessful. Please do
not call the department to enquire about the progress of your application.
Applicants must note that further checks will be conducted once they are
shortlisted and that their appointment is subject to positive outcomes on these
checks, which include security clearance, security vetting, qualification
verification and criminal records verification. Appointment will be provisional,
pending the issue of a security clearance. If you cannot get a security
clearance, your appointment will be re-considered/possibly terminated.
Fingerprints may be taken on the day of the interview. Applications:
Applications must be submitted on the Z83 form (Public Service application
form) obtainable from any Public Service department and must be completed
in full. Only a detailed CV should be attached to your application form. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies not older than
6 months of qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of
the interview. Please send a complete application for the post you apply for on
a pdf format, stating the correct reference for the position you are interested in.
Requirement for valid driver’s license is not applicable to applicants with a
disability. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
will be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
23
OTHER POST
POST 45/24 : MEDICAL OFFICER: GRADE 1 - 3
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Groenpunt Ref No: FSNC 2025/12/01
Western Cape Region: Brandvlei Ref No: WC 2025/12/01
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a medical officer. Current proof of
registration with the HPCSA as a medical practitioner. Basic medical degree
(MBBCH or equivalent). Grade 1: No experience required. Grade 2: A
minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as Medical Officer after registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate experience as Medical Officer after registration with the HPCSA as
a Medical Practitioner. Computer literate. Valid driver’s license. Competencies
And Attributes: Excellent clinical skills; history taking; examination; clinical
assessment and management procedures. Good professional attitude,
communication skills and ethics in relation to patients/relevant stakeholders.
Knowledge of public health legislation. Financial management. Project and
programme management, transformation management, change management
and stakeholder management skills. Problem solving and analysis, service
delivery innovation, decision making, people management and empowerment
and evaluation skills. Integrity and honesty. Teamwork ability. Confidentiality
and good interpersonal relations. Assertiveness and ability to network. Good
understanding of the public service policy and legislative framework.
DUTIES : Facilitate and support the provision of primary health care services. Render
basic medical health care services to inmates. Improve clinical quality of
primary health care services through direct patient care, mentoring and
supervision of health care professionals through an integrated approach
programme. Render medico-legal services. Attendance of relevant
administrative and clinical meetings. Improve the quality of medical care by
providing appropriate clinical care services and maintain good medical
practice. Implement and monitor adherence to national standards. Implement
and monitor compliance with Standard Treatment Guidelines and Essential
Medicine List as per Essential Drug Programme: South Africa. Facilitate and
coordinate medical emergency preparedness and life support services.
Provide emergency medical care, including after hours. Refer patients to
authorised and recognised health care providers. Liaise with internal and
external counterparts regarding healthcare delivery. Management of
performance information, human resources, finance and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at 082 306 9027
Western Cape Region: Ms NA Mdladlamba Tel No: (021) 550 6014 / Ms A
Reddy Tel No: (021) 559 7929 / Mr S Sikisazane Tel No: (021) 558 0108 / Ms
NC Sotyibi Tel No: (021) 558 0518.
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
24
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE
CLOSING DATE : 22 December 2025 at 16h00. Applications received after the closing date and
faxed copies will not be considered).
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed form Z83 (obtainable from
any Public Service Department office i.e effective 01 January 2021 or on the
DPSA web site link: https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/. Should an
application be received using incorrect application employment form Z83, it will
be disqualified, which must be originally signed and dated by the applicant and
which must be accompanied by a detailed CV only (with full particulars of the
applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge & experience).
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
which should not be older than six months. Failure to comply with the above
instructions will result in applications being disqualified. Applicants applying for
more than one post must submit a separate form Z83 (as well as the
documentation mentioned above) in respect of each post being applied for. If
an applicant wishes to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing.
Should an application be received where an applicant applies for more than
one post on the same applications form, the application will only be considered
for the first post indicated on the application and not for any of the other posts.
Under no circumstances will photostat copies or faxed copies of application
documents be accepted. The successful candidates will be subjected to
Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset
record checks and qualification and employment verification). Successful
candidates will also be subjected to security clearance processes. The level of
appointments is dependent upon, qualifications, relevant experience and
research output. The shortlisted candidates will be subjected to two (2) pre-
entry assessments (practical and ethical exercise) which will determine the
candidate’s suitability. Applicants who do not receive confirmation or feedback
within 3 (three) months after the closing date, please consider your application
unsuccessful. Due to the large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of
applications will not be acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. For more information on the job description(s)
please contact the person indicated in the post details. Successful candidates
will be appointed on probation for the period of twelve (12) months in terms of
the prescribed rules.
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/25 : SECRETARY REF NO: CDTM/32/45/25/01
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : HR Division, Chief Directorate Transformation Management Defence HQ,
Erasmuskloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. Secretarial/Administration
experience will be an added advantage Special requirements (Skills needed):
The ideal candidate must be computer literate with excellent communication
skills and good telephone etiquette. Must possess good organisational skills
and the ability to act with tact and discretion. Must have good inter personal
relationship skills essential for team support and collaboration.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing
secretarial/receptionist support service to the Director. Receive telephone calls
and refer the calls to the correct role players if not meant for the relevant
manager. Records appointments and events in the diary of the manager. Types
documents for the manager and other staff within the unit on a word processor.
Operates office equipment like fax machines and photocopiers. Provide a
clerical support service to the Director. Liaise with travel agencies to make
travel arrangements. Checks the arrangements when the relevant documents
are received. Arrange meetings and events for the Director and the staff in the
unit. Identify venues, invites role players, organise refreshments, and set up
schedules for meetings and events. Processes the travel and subsistence
25
claims for the unit. Process all invoices that emanate from the activities of the
work of the Director. Records basic minutes of the meetings of the Director
where required. Draft routine correspondence and reports. Do filing of
documents for the Director and the unit where required. Administer matters like
leave register and telephone accounts. Receives, records, and distributes all
incoming and outgoing documents. Handles the procurement of standard items
like stationery, refreshments etc. Collects all relevant documents to enable the
Director to prepare for the meetings. Remain up to date with regard to
prescripts/policies and procedures applicable to your work terrain to ensure
efficient and effective support to the Director. Study the relevant Public Service
and departmental prescripts/policies and other documents to ensure that the
application thereof is understood properly. Remain abreast with the procedures
and processes that apply in the office of the Director.
ENQUIRIES : Capt (SAN) D. Siweya Tel No: (012) 355 5828/Ms A. Dookaran Tel No: (012)
355 5780
APPLICATIONS : HR Division, Chief Directorate: Transformation Management (CDTM), Private
Bag X159, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver to Defence HQ, 370 Nossob Street,
Erasmuskloof, Pretoria or Email to molatso.mabetwa@dod.mil.za
POST 45/26 : SECRETARY REF NO: ARMYCOLLEGE/03/45/25/01
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : SA Army College, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. Secretarial/Administration
experience will be an added advantage Special requirements (Skills needed):
The ideal candidate must be computer literate with excellent communication
skills and good telephone etiquette. Must possess good organisational skills
and the ability to act with tact and discretion. Must have good inter personal
relationship skills essential for team support and collaboration.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing
secretarial/receptionist support service to the Director. Receive telephone calls
and refer the calls to the correct role players if not meant for the relevant
Director. Record appointments and events in the diary of the Director. Type
documents for the Director and other staff within the unit on Microsoft Word.
Operate office equipment like fax machines and photocopiers. Provide a
clerical support service to the Director. Liaise with travel agencies to make
travel arrangements. Check the arrangements when the relevant documents
are received. Arrange meetings and events for the Director and the staff in the
unit. Identify venues, invites role players, organise refreshments, and set up
schedules for meetings and events. Processes the travel and subsistence
claims for the unit. Process all invoices that emanate from the activities of the
work of the Director. Records basic minutes of the meetings of the Director
where required. Draft routine correspondence and reports. Do filing of
documents for the Director and the unit where required. Administer matters like
leave register and telephone accounts. Receives, records, and distributes all
incoming and outgoing documents. Handles the procurement of standard items
like stationery, refreshments etc. Collects all relevant documents to enable the
Director to prepare for the meetings. Remain up to date with regard to
prescripts/policies and procedures applicable to your work terrain to ensure
efficient and effective support to the Director. Study the relevant Public Service
and departmental prescripts/policies and other documents to ensure that the
application thereof is understood properly. Remain abreast with the procedures
and processes that apply in the office of the Director.
ENQUIRIES : Maj T.P. Papi/2Lt L. Seleke Tel No: (012) 674 4059/4011
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army College, Private Bag X1002, Thaba
Tshwane, Pretoria, 0143 or hand deliver at SA Army College, 137 Van
Riebeeck Road, Thaba Tshwane, Pretoria or email to:
Nyabane.Maswanganyi@dod.mil.za
POST 45/27 : SECRETARY REF NO: ARMYSUPFMN/03/45/25/02
SALARY : R228 321– R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : SA Army Support Formation, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. Secretarial/Administration
experience will be an added advantage Special requirements (Skills needed):
The ideal candidate must be computer literate with excellent communication
skills and good telephone etiquette. Must possess good organisational skills
26
and the ability to act with tact and discretion. Must have good inter personal
relationship skills essential for team support and collaboration.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing
secretarial/receptionist support service to the Director. Receive telephone calls
and refer the calls to the correct role players if not meant for the relevant
Director. Record appointments and events in the diary of the Director. Type
documents for the Director and other staff within the unit on Microsoft Word.
Operate office equipment like fax machines and photocopiers. Provide a
clerical support service to the Director. Liaise with travel agencies to make
travel arrangements. Check the arrangements when the relevant documents
are received. Arrange meetings and events for the Director and the staff in the
unit. Identify venues, invites role players, organise refreshments, and set up
schedules for meetings and events. Processes the travel and subsistence
claims for the unit. Process all invoices that emanate from the activities of the
work of the Director. Records basic minutes of the meetings of the Director
where required. Draft routine correspondence and reports. Do filing of
documents for the Director and the unit where required. Administer matters like
leave register and telephone accounts. Receives, records, and distributes all
incoming and outgoing documents. Handles the procurement of standard items
like stationery, refreshments etc. Collects all relevant documents to enable the
Director to prepare for the meetings. Remain up to date with regard to
prescripts/policies and procedures applicable to your work terrain to ensure
efficient and effective support to the Director. Study the relevant Public Service
and departmental prescripts/policies and other documents to ensure that the
application thereof is understood properly. Remain abreast with the procedures
and processes that apply in the office of the Director.
ENQUIRIES : Capt B. Khumalo Tel No: (012) 339 4059 6537/ Ms M. More Tel No: (012) 339
6768
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army Support Formation, Private Bag X172,
Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at SA Army Support Formation, Corner Vissagie
and Thabo Sehume Street, Pretoria or email to: asfinvitations@dod.mil.za
POST 45/28 : FOOD SERVICE AID: SUPERVISOR REF NO: JSBGAR/03/45/25/03 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Joint Support Base (JSB) Garrison, Thaba Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 11 (NQF Level 3) or equivalent with at least 3 years’
experience in food service aid environment. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Language proficiency in English (written and verbal). Planning and
organising skills. Good interpersonal skills. Operating skills. Inventory
management skills. Cleaning and maintenance. Understanding of health and
safety regulations to prevent contamination. Be able to work after hours when
the unit is hosting functions and or formal dinners after hours.
DUTIES : Effective supervising of supervise food service aids, create shift schedules,
manage attendance and ensure adequate staffing. Ensure that the dining hall
is clean at all times, tables are clean, neat and set correctly according to the
menu. Train stuff on food safety. Ensure that cutlery, serviettes condiments,
butter and assorted jams are available on the tables. Maintain cleanness and
safety standards. Assist in preparing and serving food. Report all losses,
damages and theft observed. Ensure food quality and presentation meet
standards.
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col A. Zombe Tel No: (012) 684 2198 / Ms M.T.P. Lekgetho Tel No: (012)
684 2029
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Joint Support Base Garrison, Private Bag X1001,
Thaba Tshwane, 0143 or hand deliver at Joint Support Base Garrison, No1
Van Reeback Road, Thaba Tshwane or email to
Ndishavhelafhi.Netshutungulu@dod.mil.za
POST 45/29 : FOOD SERVICE AID: SUPERVISOR REF NO: ASBKZN /03/45/25/04
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Army Support Base KwaZulu Natal, Bluff
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 11 (NQF Level 3) or equivalent with at least 3 years’
experience in food service aid environment. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Language proficiency in English (written and verbal). Planning and
organising skills. Good interpersonal skills. Operating skills. Inventory
27
management skills. Cleaning and maintenance. Understanding of health and
safety regulations to prevent contamination. Be able to work after hours when
the unit is hosting functions and or formal dinners after hours.
DUTIES : Effective supervising of supervise food service aid, create shift schedules,
manage attendance and ensure adequate staffing. Ensure that the dining hall
is clean at all times, tables are clean, neat and set correctly according to the
menu. Train stuff on food safety. Ensure that cutlery, serviettes condiments,
butter and assorted jams are available on the tables. Maintain cleanness and
safety standards. Assist in preparing and serving food. Report all losses,
damages and theft observed. Ensure food quality and presentation meet
standards.
ENQUIRIES : Capt N.T. Mabuyakhulu Tel No: (031) 451 0020/ Ms C. Nienaber Tel No: (031)
451 0205
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Army Support Base KZN, Private Bag X12, Durban,
4030 or hand deliver at Army Support Base KZN, 81 Sailkot Cres Merewent,
Bluff or email to keresa.gordon@dod.mil.za
POST 45/30 : CLEANER: SUPERVISOR REF NO: JSBGAR/03/45/25/05 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Joint Support Base (JSB) Garrison, Thaba Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : ABET Level 4 or equivalent with a minimum 2 years’ experience in cleaning
services environment. Special requirements (Skills needed): Knowledge of
types and purpose of cleaning materials and operating cleaning equipment.
Good understanding of Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHSA). Ability to
handle large staff component. Good interpersonal skills and effective
communication skills. Problem solving and analytical skills.
DUTIES : Effective supervising of cleaning services. Inspecting physical environments to
ensure hygiene and cleanliness. Monitor availability and condition of cleaning
equipment. Control inventory of cleaning materials and equipment in various
buildings. Order, receive and issue cleaning materials. Compile cleaning
reports. Draft cleaning programs for various buildings. Liaise with seniors
timeously with regards to problem situations that may arise. Control and
manage leave for the cleaning personnel under supervision. Monitor and
manage discipline of subordinates. Manage staff according to PMDS.
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col A. Zombe Tel No: (012) 684 2198 / Ms M.T.P. Lekgetho Tel No: (012)
684 2029
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Joint Support Base Garrison, Private Bag X1001,
Thaba Tshwane, 0143 or hand deliver at Joint Support Base Garrison, No1
Van Reeback Road, Thaba Tshwane or email to
Ndishavhelafhi.Netshutungulu@dod.mil.za
POST 45/31 : CLEANER: SUPERVISOR REF NO: ASBKBY/03/45/25/06
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Army Support Base Kimberley.
REQUIREMENTS : ABET Level 4 or equivalent with a minimum 2 years’ experience in cleaning
services environment. Special requirements (Skills needed): Knowledge of
types and purpose of cleaning materials and operating cleaning equipment.
Good understanding of Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHSA). Ability to
handle large staff component. Good interpersonal skills and effective
communication skills. Problem solving and analytical skills.
DUTIES : Effective supervising of cleaning services. Inspecting physical environments to
ensure hygiene and cleanliness. Monitor availability and condition of cleaning
equipment. Control inventory of cleaning materials and equipment in various
buildings. Order, receive and issue cleaning materials. Compile cleaning
reports. Draft cleaning programs for various buildings. Liaise with seniors
timeously with regards to problem situations that may arise. Control and
manage leave for the cleaning personnel under supervision. Monitor and
manage discipline of subordinates. Manage staff according to PMDS.
ENQUIRIES : Maj I.W. Februarie, Tel No: (053) 830 3011/ Mr Mohale Tel No: (053) 830 3018
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Army Support Base Kimberly, Private
Bag X5056, Diskobolos Kimberly, Northern Cape, 8325 or hand deliver at ASB
Kimberly, Gen van der Spuy Rylaan, Kimberly or email to
Mimy.Matimbe@dod.mil.za
28
POST 45/32 : CLEANER: SUPERVISOR REF NO: ASBPOTCH /03/45/25/07
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Army Support Base (ASB) Potchefstroom.
REQUIREMENTS : ABET Level 4 or equivalent with a minimum 2 years’ experience in cleaning
services environment. Special requirements (Skills needed): Knowledge of
types and purpose of cleaning materials and operating cleaning equipment.
Good understanding of Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHSA). Ability to
handle large staff component. Good interpersonal skills and effective
communication skills. Problem solving and analytical skills.
DUTIES : Effective supervising of cleaning services. Inspecting physical environments to
ensure hygiene and cleanliness. Monitor availability and condition of cleaning
equipment. Control inventory of cleaning materials and equipment in various
buildings. Order, receive and issue cleaning materials. Compile cleaning
reports. Draft cleaning programs for various buildings. Liaise with seniors
timeously with regards to problem situations that may arise. Control and
manage leave for the cleaning personnel under supervision. Monitor and
manage discipline of subordinates. Manage staff according to PMDS.
ENQUIRIES : W01 N.S. Makhafola Tel No: (018) 289 3381 / Ms S.S. Shedi Tel No: (018) 289
3378
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Army, Support Base Potchefstroom,
Private Bag X2012, Noordburg, North West, 2522 or hand deliver at South
African Army Support Base Potchefstroom, Corner Eleazer and Ventersdorp
road, Noordburg, Potchefstroom or email to Mimy.Matimbe@dod.mil.za
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this post with a candidate whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
POST 45/33 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: 9SAIBN/03/45/25/08
SALARY : R138 486 - RR163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : 9 South African Infantry Battalion, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Basic
knowledge of health and safety. Knowledge of basic maintenance of machinery
with low level of complexity in operating it. Knowledge of basic hand tools and
cleaning equipment. Ability to operate cleaning machines. Ability to perform
routine tasks. Ability to work in team and individually. Basic numeracy and
literacy skills. Perform cleaning duties. Working relations with others.
Endurance, consequent, punctual, loyalty, integrity and practical. Knowledge
of gardening and maintenance of equipment.
DUTIES : Cultivate garden areas. Maintain general appearance of shooting range and
immediate surroundings. Assist with maintenance on shooting related
equipment and facilities. Prepare soil for the planting of plants. Maintain flower
and other beds by fertilizing, irrigating, weeding and pruning. Mow lawns and
cut edges. Load and unload various articles and equipment needed on the
grounds. Irrigate lawns. Remove refuge from the terrain. Load refuge on the
truck for transformation to refuge dumps or burn refuge. Maintain neatness of
unit areas. Properly maintained equipment save and secure. Apply OHS
measures where required.
ENQUIRIES : Capt P.S. Bam Tel No: (021) 787 6155
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army, 9 SAI Bn Private Bag X4, Eersterivier, 7103
or may be hand delivered to Spine Road, Ext 29 Eersterivier or email to
Chaney.Bailey@dod.mil.za
POST 45/34 : CLEANER REF NO: 9SAIBN/03/45/25/09
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : 9 South African Infantry Battalion, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Basic
knowledge of health and safety. Knowledge of basic maintenance of machinery
with low level of complexity in operating it. Knowledge of basic hand tools and
cleaning equipment. Ability to operate cleaning machines. Ability to perform
routine tasks. Ability to work in team and individually. Basic numeracy and
literacy skills. Perform cleaning duties. Apply OHS measures where required.
29
Endurance, consequent, punctual, loyalty, integrity, innovative and neatness.
Bilingual, Hardworking, must be able to work shifts, must be able to receive
and perform tasks.
DUTIES : Perform cleaning related duties in offices and other facilities as determined by
Supervisor (i.e. vacuum of facilities, Clean and dust office furniture on a daily
basis, wash office floors, clean cutlery of offices with kitchen facilities, clean
toilet, regularly wash windows and empty dustbins of offices). Properly
maintained equipment save and secure, clean offices and conference facilities.
Apply OHS measures where required. Clean ablution facilities. Report any
defects in the work place to immediate supervisor.
ENQUIRIES Capt P.S. Bam Tel No: 021 787 6155
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Army, 9 SAI Bn Private Bag X4, Eersterivier, 7103
or may be hand delivered to Spine Road, Ext 29 Eersterivier or emailed to
Chaney.Bailey@dod.mil.za
30
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Head Office
CLOSING DATE : 22 December 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 23:59 midnight (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the correct
job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your email.
Use the correct email address associated with the post. Failure to do so, your
application will be disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference
number must be submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after
the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) Your
information will be used soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below
advertised post(s). The successful candidate will be expected to sign a
performance agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative
action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform
the employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity
(race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/35 : ICT PROJECT MANAGER REF NO: HR 4/25/12/01HO (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all inclusive)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
31
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification at (NQF6) as recognized by SAQA in
Information Technology/ Information Systems/ Computer Science. Five years
(5) years’ experience in the information and communication Technology
(ICT)/Communication Project environment using project/change management
concepts and methodologies e.g PRINCE2, MSP, LEAN, (or equivalent), and
the project development lifestyle. Knowledge: Project Management
Methodologies, Software Development Methodologies, Software Development
Life Cycle, ICT standards, policies and procedures, Public Financial
Management Act, HR policy, Public Service Act, Public Service regulations,
Basic conditions of Employment Act, Labour Relations Act, Departmental
Policies and Procedures. Skills: Planning, Communication, Team
Management, Analytical thinking, Risk and issue Management, Financial
Management, Quality Management, Contract Management, Integration
Management, Conflict Resolution, Schedule Management, Multi-tasking,
Facilitation, ICT Systems Development process, Programme and project
Management, Change Management.
DUTIES : Ensure that projects are delivered on time, in budget and to the required quality
and standard as per the project schedules. Advise project stakeholders and
staff to understand the project scope. Develop effective working relationships
and ongoing management processes for the project. Manage, monitor and
evaluate the cross functional team assigned to the projects.
ENQUIRIES : Mr FS Chabalala Tel No: (012) 309 4967
APPLICATIONS : Online application email: Jobs-HQ13@labour.gov.za
POST 45/36 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT (SYSTEMS &
CONTROL) REF NO: HR 4/25/12/02HO
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF6 as recognized by SAQA in Accounting/ Financial
Management. Four years’ experience of which two (2) years supervisory
experience and two (2) years functional experience in the Finance
environment. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures, Batho Pele
Principles, Extensive knowledge of Basic Accounting System, Training and
development, Budgeting, General Accounting, Delegation of Authority,
Transversal systems (PERSAL, Logis). Skills: Computer Literacy (Word, Excel,
Power Point, BAS), Verbal and written communication, Analytical, Supervisory,
Problem solving, Report writing, Performance Management, Mentoring and
Coaching.
DUTIES : Maintain the Basic Accounting System (BAS) for the Department. Maintain the
BAS and LOGIS entity database. Manage expense suspense and revenue
accounts. Manage the BAS helpdesk facility. Supervise and ensure
development of subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Bheki Ngcobo Tel No: (012) 309 4298
APPLICATIONS : Online application email: Jobs-HQ7@labour.gov.za
POST 45/37 : NETWORK ENGINEER REF NO: HR 4/25/12/03HO
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification at (NQF6) as recognized by SAQA in
Information Technology/ Information Systems/ Computer Science. Added
advantage certificate with three or more of the following
GSEC/GCIA/GCIH/CCNA/A+ and N+ coupled with am MCSE qualification.
Two (2) years’ experience in Wide Area Network (WAN), Troubleshooting
Technology, Network topology, Network Design, Application Layer and routing
protocols. Knowledge: Technical standards/procedures, Network Standards
and Technologies, Network troubleshooting procedure, Network device
configuration (Routers, firewalls, switches), ICT Service Management
Processes, Departmental Policies and Procedures, Batho Pele Principles.
Skills: Verbal and written communication, Analytical thinking, Process
improvement.
DUTIES : Resolve network connectivity incidents logged on IT Service Management
(ITSM). Identify ways to improve network stability, efficiency and performance.
Provide report on network performance and utilization. Create and update
network documentation.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs C Van Heever at 082 493 7332
32
APPLICATIONS : Online application email: Jobs-HQ5@labour.gov.za
POST 45/38 : CHIEF ADMIN: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO: HR 4/25/12/04HO (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at (NQF6) as recognized by SAQA in Asset Management/
Supply Chain Management/ Public Management/ Public Administration/
Business Management/ Business Administration/Taxation/Accounting
qualifications/Internal Audit. One (1) year functional experience in Asset
Management. Knowledge: Asset Management, Risk Management, Relevant
Labour policies, procedures and processes, Customer service (Batho Pele
Principles), Stakeholders and customer, Understanding of Supply Chain
Management Procedures. Skills: Written and verbal communication, Computer
literacy, Presentation, Data and record management, Decision making,
Problem solving.
DUTIES : Verify assets and record them in the Departmental assets register. Record all
assets in the Departmental Assets register. Execute the disposal of assets in
line with the Departmental policies and procedures. Responsible for making
recommendation to acquisition management for the procurement of assets for
the Department. Monitor the operational performance and maintenance of
assets in the Department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Kholeka Maholwana Tel No: (012) 309 4670
APPLICATIONS : Online application email: Jobs-HQ3@labour.gov.za
POST 45/39 : INTERNAL AUDITOR REF NO: HR 4/25/12/05HO
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at (NQF6) as recognized by SAQA in Auditing/ Accounting/
Finance/Bcom Information Systems. One (1) years functional experience in
Auditing. Statutory Body Requirements: Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA)
Knowledge: Applicable legislative and regulatory framework, Public Finance
and Management Act, Treasury Regulations and guidelines, Organisational
and government structures, National Treasury Internal Audit Framework,
Internal audit concepts, frameworks and methodologies, Public Sector Risk
Management Framework, King Report on Corporate governance, Framework
for managing performance Information, Departmental internal audit activity
charter, audit and risk committee charters, General Recognized Accounting
Standards(GRAP), International Professional Practices Framework(IPPF) of
the Institute of Internal Auditors(IIA):(1) Definition, (2) Code of Ethics, (3)
Standards, (4) Practice Advisories and (5) Practice Guides. Skills: Planning
and Organizing, Computer, Project Management, Communication (verbal and
written), Leadership, Analytical, Good Interpersonal, Presentation, Team Mate.
Behavioural attributes: Assertive, Analytical, Client focused/centric, Sense of
Responsibility, Disciplined and ability to meet deadlines, Ability to motivate
team members, Organizational/goal driven, Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Planning of audit engagements. Conduct Audit engagements in accordance
with Audit programmes. Render administrative support to the Internal Audit
within the Department of Employment and Labour.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Amanda Matshivha Tel No: (012) 309 4984
APPLICATIONS : Online application email: Jobs-HQ6@labour.gov.za
33
ANNEXURE G
DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer.
APPLICATIONS : Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of Forestry, Fisheries
and the Environment, Private Bag X447, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-delivered to:
Environment House, Erf 1563 Arcadia Extension 6, Cnr Soutpansberg and
Steve Biko Road, Arcadia, Pretoria. or can be emailed to the respective email
address quoting the reference number on the subject email.
FOR ATTENTION : Human Resource Management
CLOSING DATE : 22 December 2025, 16:00
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. All attachments for online application must include an
application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or
attachment, indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the post
on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address associated with
the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, Senior
Certificate, identity document and driver’s license on or before the day of the
interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National
Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. Preference may be given to appointable applicants
from the underrepresented designated groups in terms of the Department’s
equity plan. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
Correspondence will be limited to successful candidates only. Short-listed
candidates will be subjected to screening and security vetting to determine their
suitability for employment, including but not limited to: Criminal records;
Citizenship status; Credit worthiness; Previous employment (reference
checks); and Qualification verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected
to avail themselves at the Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements
for SMS posts: In terms of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development,
Mandatory Training Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was
introduced on 1 April 2015, a requirement for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme/.
Furthermore, all shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Following the
interview and the technical exercise, the Selection Panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment in
compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-
based assessments. The person appointed to this position will be subjected to
a security clearance, the signing of performance agreement and employment
contract. The Department reserves the right not to make an appointment. By
submitting the employment application form, you agree and consent in terms
of Section 11(1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), 2013
(Act 4 of 2013), for your personal information which you provide to the DFFE
to being processed by the department and its employees, agents, Cabinet
committees, and subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in accordance with
the POPIA of 2013. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after
the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful.
34
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POS 45/40 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: LAW REFORM AND POLICY COORDINATION REF NO:
RCSM10 /2025
Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied must re-apply.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Law or relevant qualification on (NQF7)
within the related field as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of five (5) years’
experience at a senior managerial level within the relevant field. Successful
completion of the Senior Management Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by
the National School of Government (NSG) submitted prior to appointment.
Experience in the law reform and policy coordination. Certificate in legislative
drafting and experience in the South African legislative process for the
promulgation of legislation. Knowledge of Legal Administration, Strategic
coordination/ planning, Business planning, Report/professional writing, Policy
development, Business process management, Organisation performance
management, Risk management, Audit procedures, Research methodologies
and presentation, Project management, Outlook, Ms Word, PowerPoint, Excel,
Knowledge on how to use legal data bases (Juta, Sabinet, LexisNexis) for
research purposes, Policies, legislation and procedures, Public Service and
Departmental procedures and prescripts, Planning and performance
management legislation, Departmental legislation, Budget planning and
control, procurement and financial prescripts, Legislative drafting course. Skills
& Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership, Managerial skills,
Advanced skills in policy formulation, Negotiation skills, Adequate skills in
computer use, Advanced skills in budgeting, managing budget, Advanced skills
in respect of formal presentation and public speaking; management and project
management, Good interpersonal relations and diplomatic skills, Relationship
Management, Stakeholder engagement, Public Relations, Research,
Programme and Project Management, Financial Management, Change
Management, Knowledge Management: Service Delivery Innovation (SDI),
Problem Solving and Analysis, People Management and Empowerment, Client
Orientation and Customer Focus. Personal attributes Managerial capability,
Ability to work individually and in a team, Adherence to deadlines, Good
interpersonal relations, Ability to work with difficult persons and to resolve
conflict, Sense of responsibility and loyalty, Objectiveness, Integrity, Service
orientated, Self-supervision, Highly developed sense of honesty, Protect the
confidentiality of documents.
DUTIES : Manage and oversee the management of all law reform requests. Oversee the
provisioning of general legal support in respect of legislation administered by
the Department Oversee and manage the drafting, vetting of, commenting on
and processing of Bills. Ensure the provision of general legal support and
directives issued in terms of legislation administered by the Department Ensure
legislation and policy coordination within the Department.
ENQUERIES : Ms P Diphaha Tel No: (012) 399 9602
APPLICATIONS : RCSM10-2025@dffe.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/41 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFORMATION TRANSFORMATION REF NO:
RCSM05/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised - delete National Diploma (NQF Level 6) / Degree in
Creative/Graphic Arts/ Information Science or relevant qualification recognized
by SAQA. Five (5) years relevant experience of which three (3) of them should
be at an entry/junior managerial level (Assistant Director Level or equivalent).
Extensive experience in marketing, advertising and knowledge
communication. Broad knowledge and understanding of brand development
and experience in design and digital design. Have basic to good general
knowledge of environmental and sustainable development issues. Good grasp
of business process management. Experience in research methodologies and
presentation. Experience in project management, people management and
financial management. An applicant must have a high-level computer
35
proficiency and skills, especially with creative software such as: Adobe
Creative Suite applications (Photoshop, illustrator, InDesign, etc). Must poses
the following skills: Interpersonal, Creativity, Analytical and Decision-Making.
DUTIES : Undertake the conceptualisation, creative design, and production of high
impact information products for the Chief Directorate: Environmental
Knowledge and Information. Provide creative inputs in terms of how ideas
could be translated into visual executions for different media. Create and
organize high-resolution electronic images and data-based graphics (e.g.,
charts, graphs, infographics). Develop visual concepts and create layouts,
graphics, and illustrations using design software. Create information product
mock-ups in consultation with respective teams within the Chief Directorate.
Incorporate revisions based on feedback from respective teams within the
Chief Directorate. Implement layout and design of all approved information
products, ensure that the final design is visually appealing and meets the
project's objectives. Maintain brand identity and guidelines, making sure that
all visual materials are consistent with the Department’s brand standards.
Maintain a structured folder of electronic images for the Chief Directorate.
Ensure that visuals are accurate, well-captioned, and sourced appropriately.
Obtain proofs/samples for sign off before production of all material. Testing the
developed graphics across various media. Review final graphics and layout
for errors and ensure that all final products meet high standards of clarity,
accuracy, and are visually appealing. Keep up to date with the latest trends,
tools and technologies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Raswiswi Tel No: (012) 399 8636
APPLICATIONS : RCSM05-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 45/42 : CONTROL BIODIVERSITY OFFICER GRADE A: THREATENED OR
PROTECTED SPECIES REF NO: RCSM13/2025
SALARY : R612 480 per annum, (OSD), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A four (4) year Degree (NQF Level 8) in Natural or Environmental Sciences or
equivalent qualification within the related field, plus 6 years’ post qualification
experience in the relevant field. Knowledge and experience in criminal and
administrative enforcement. Knowledge of the National Environmental
Management: Biodiversity Act, 2004 (Act No. 10 of 2004) (NEMBA), its
associated subordinate legislation, and other relevant acts that deal with
biodiversity matters. Knowledge and relevant experience in criminal
procedures including the Criminal Procedures Act, court processes and
document management. Knowledge of relevant legal processes. Knowledge
and experience in criminal investigations and processes, in particular but not
limited to threatened or protected species and applicable MEA’s such as
CITES and the CBD. Knowledge of administrative procedures. Knowledge of,
and experience in, the application of the provisions of the National
Environmental Management: Biodiversity Act, 2004 (Act No. 10 of 2004)
(NEMBA), and its associated subordinate legislation, or experience in a law
environment. Knowledge of the National Environmental Management Act,
1998 (Act No. 107 of 1998) (NEMA) and other acts affecting biodiversity.
Advanced skills in policy formulation. Negotiation skills. Good interpersonal
relations and diplomatic skills. Stakeholder engagement skills. Presentation
skills. Ability to work under extreme pressure.
DUTIES : Ensure enforcement of Biodiversity related legislations. Coordinate
enforcement operations. Do criminal investigations, crime scene management
and open criminal cases to prosecute offenders, Co-operate and liaise with
enforcement stakeholders on matters relating to Biodiversity enforcement
activities, programmes and projects. Consult with prosecutors, police and all
other stakeholders regarding criminal investigations. Follow and implement the
National Compliance and Enforcement Information system. Develop and
facilitate the implementation of national policies, strategies and programmes
relating to the enforcement of the TOPS, CITES, AIS and BABS regulations.
Provide strategic enforcement support to EMI’s. Participate in inter-
departmental forums and processes regarding policy and legislative reform.
ENQUIRIES : Mr O Chauke Tel No: (012) 399 9317
APPLICATIONS : RCSM13-2025@dffe.gov.za
36
ANNEXURE H
GOVERNMENT COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION SYSTEM (GCIS)
The GCIS is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1)
(i) of the Constitution of South Africa of 1996, the Employment Equity (EE) imperatives as defined by the
EE Act of 1998 (Act 55 of 1998) and relevant Human Resource policies of the department will be taken
into consideration. People with disabilities will be accommodated within reasonable limits. Therefore,
preference will be given to candidates whose appointment will assist the department in achieving its EE
targets in terms of the department’s EE Plan. People with disabilities will be given preference regardless
of race or gender.
APPLICATIONS : The Director-General (DG) of GCIS, Private Bag X745, Pretoria, 0001.
Applications may be hand delivered to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 Cnr
Francis Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria or emailed to
recruitment@gcis.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P. Kgopyane
CLOSING DATE : 22 December 2025
NOTE : Applicants with disabilities are encouraged to apply. The old prescribed
application or employment form Z83 was withdrawn with effect from 31
December 2020. As per the Government Gazette No: 43872, any applicant
who submits an application on or after 1 January 2021 must do so on the new
prescribed Z83 form, obtainable from any Public Service department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Failure to submit an application on the new
prescribed Z83 form will lead to disqualification. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit the fully completed and signed Z83 form and a detailed curriculum
vitae only. Communication regarding submission of certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents will be limited to shortlisted
candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified documents on or before the day of the interview, following
communication from the department. Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applicants who do not comply
with the above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late,
will not be considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. The successful candidate must disclose to the DG, particulars
of all registrable financial interests, sign a performance agreement and
employment contract with the DG within three months from the date of
assumption of duty and obtain a Top Secret security clearance. All
appointments are subject to the verification of educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. The
department reserves the right to fill or not to fill the vacant post. The successful
candidates will sign an employment contract with the GCIS that will be
reviewed based on performance expiration. By submitting the employment
application form, you agree and consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) of 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for
your personal information which you provide to the GCIS to being processed
by the department and its employees, agents, Cabinet committees and
subcontractors for recruitment purposes in accordance with POPIA.
OTHER POST
POST 45/43 : MEMBER OF THE AUDIT COMMITTE REF NO: 3/1/5/1-MAC
SALARY : In terms of section 38 of the Public Finance Management Act of 1999 (PFMA),
the Department of Government Communication and Information System
requires the services of a qualified person to serves as a member of the
Department ‘s Audit Committee. Successful candidates appointed will be
remunerated according to the rates prescribed by National Treasury
Regulations 20.2.2.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Bachelor of Laws (LLB) Degree or
equivalent related qualification as recognised by SAQA. Experience as a legal
practitioner in legal and compliance at an executive level (as a Board of
Directors, a Board Committee member, Audit Committee, particularly in the
37
public sector at a senior level, will be given preference. Interested candidates
must be independent non-executives and may not have business interests or
dealings with the GCIS. Preference will be given to candidates who
demonstrate experience in participating in governance structures – especially
the Audit and Risk Committee, ability to dedicate their resources to the work of
the GCIS Audit Committee.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will operate in accordance with an approved Audit
Committee charter. The responsibilities include overseeing the system of
governance, risk and control and making recommendations to the Accounting
Officer on the adequacy and effectiveness of: Internal and External Audit,
Internal Controls, Risk Management, Governance (including IT Governance),
Financial Management, Financial and Non-Financial Reporting, and
Compliance with Laws and Regulations. Additionally, helping the Accounting
Officer in ensuring an effective combined assurance plan is developed and
implemented.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Sathasivan Vandayar Tel No: (012) 473 0304
NOTE : The initial term of office for the appointed candidate will be 3 years. The term
may be renewed for another 3 years subject to satisfactory performance, or at
the discretion of GCIS. The successful candidate will be expected to participate
in six Audit Committee (AC) meetings per annum (four ordinary and two special
meetings).
38
ANNEXURE I
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(Tshwane North TVET College)
Tshwane North TVET College would like to invite suitably qualified, innovative, result-orientated and
self–driven candidates to apply for their vacant positions.
CLOSING DATE : 22 December 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the New Z83 which must be fully completed,
obtainable from any Public Service Department and must be accompanied by
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications including academic records, driver’s
license, and identity document. Please take note that communication in relation
to the process will be limited to the short-listed candidates. If you have not
received any correspondence within three (3) months after the closing date,
please consider your application unsuccessful. Note: Please quote the relevant
reference number of the post you are applying for. Applications received after
the closing date will not be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected
to a vetting process: criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, and
qualifications. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The
College/DHET reserves the right not to make appointments. Preference will be
given to African male, African female, Coloured male, Coloured female, White
male, Indian male and White female as per the EE targets of the College.
People with disability are encouraged to apply. All costs incurred due to your
application and interviews will be at your own expense.
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/44 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO:
TNC/CO/25 – 12/1
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08,) plus benefits
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : A recognized three (3)-year National Diploma in Accounting / Financial
Management or equivalent qualification (NQF level 6). A minimum of 3–5
years’ experience in a financial management environment. Sound knowledge
of Public Service financial legislation, regulations, and procedures including
PFMA, Treasury Regulations, DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA, CET ACT and
relevant financial manuals. Knowledge and experience of financial systems
such as BAS, PERSAL, LOGIS, COLTECH, ITS or SAGE will be an added
advantage. A valid driver’s license. Competencies, Abilities and Skills:
Knowledge of financial functions, practices, and accounting procedures,
coupled with excellent computer literacy, particularly in the MS Office Suite.
The incumbent must demonstrate strong analytical, planning, and
organizational skills with the ability to perform under pressure, maintain
accuracy, and meet tight deadlines. Good interpersonal relations, along with
effective verbal and written communication skills, are essential. The position
requires a candidate who is client-focused, committed, proactive, and able to
work independently and within a team. Integrity, attention to detail, and the
ability to supervise staff and manage financial resources effectively are critical
for success in this role.
DUTIES : Responsible for coordinating and supervising the annual budgeting process
and ensuring effective financial planning and management within the College.
Monitor and analyse expenditure trends, conduct monthly budgetary and
expenditure analysis, and prepare as well as review monthly and adjusted cash
flow projections. The incumbent will coordinate and facilitate the budget
adjustment process, ensuring alignment with departmental and Treasury
requirements. Additional responsibilities include reviewing, analysing, and
quality assuring management accounting reports and submissions, as well as
monitoring financial performance against budgets and cash flow projections to
recommend corrective measures where necessary. The incumbent will further
be expected to supervise human, physical, and financial resources within the
39
unit to ensure compliance with relevant financial regulations and promote
efficient financial management operations.
ENQUIRIES : Should you have enquiries or experience any problem submitting your
application contact Mr TH Ngubane Tel No: (012) 401 1989 / Ms JM Nyalunga
Tel No: (012) 401 1940
APPLICATIONS : Email to Stateaccountant@tnc.edu.za
POST 45/45 : SENIOR HUMAN RESOURCES PRACTITIONER REF NO: TNC/CO/25 –
12/2
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), plus benefits
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Degree/ National Diploma (NQF 6) in Human Resource
Management, Labour Relations, Employment Relations or equivalent
qualification. A minimum of 3–5 years’ experience in Human Resource
Management / Labour Relations / Employee Wellness or related field.
Extensive knowledge on PERSAL system. Knowledge of ITS. Knowledge of
VIP payroll. PERSAL certificate will be an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license. Competencies, Abilities and Skills: Knowledge of Human Resources
functions and policies coupled with excellent computer literacy, particularly in
the MS Office Suite. The incumbent must demonstrate strong analytical,
planning, and organizational skills with the ability to perform under pressure,
maintain accuracy, and meet tight deadlines. Good interpersonal relations,
along with effective verbal and written communication skills, are essential. The
position requires a candidate who is client-focused, committed, proactive, and
able to work independently and within a team. Integrity, attention to detail, and
the ability to supervise staff and manage Human resources effectively are
critical for success in this role.
DUTIES : Ensure overall supervision and proper implementation of conditions of service
and remuneration of employees (leave, housing, medical, injury on duty, long
service recognition, overtime, relocation, pension, allowances, PILIR etc.).
Ensure overall supervision and proper implementation of termination of
services. Ensure overall supervision and proper implementation of Recruitment
and Selection in line with the Departmental policy and delegations.
(Advertisements, appointments, transfers, verification of qualifications,
secretariat functions at interviews, absorptions, Probation periods etc.). Ensure
overall supervision and proper implementation of Human Resource
Development services (WSP, Training, Bursaries, Internship and Learnership
programmes). Ensure overall supervision and monitor the implementation of
Performance Management Development System, Integrated Quality
Management System and conduct training to College officials. Ensure overall
supervision and proper implementation of all Employee Health and Wellness
Programmes. Provide overall supervision and technical guidance on the
development of Job Descriptions and ensure that all officials have signed job
descriptions. Ensure overall supervision and that the College Employment
Equity Plan and HR Plan are developed, reviewed, submitted to Head Office
and implemented. Supervise human, physical, financial and other resources.
Management of staff performance agreements and development system
(PMDS) and Integrated quality management systems (IQMS) for academic
staff.
ENQUIRIES : Should you have enquiries or experience any problem submitting your
application contact Mr TH Ngubane Tel No: (012) 401 1989 / Ms JM Nyalunga
Tel No: (012) 401 1940
APPLICATIONS : Email to Seniorhumanresources@tnc.edu.za
40
ANNEXURE J
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development’s mandate is to ensure that there is
accessible justice system in our vibrant and evolving constitutional democracy. It is responsible,
amongst others, to enable Access to Justice for all, promote Constitutionalism, Rule of Law, Respect for
Human Rights; and to coordinate the State Litigation and Legal Advisory Services. The Department is
therefore presenting an opportunity to dynamic individuals with relevant competencies to join a dynamic
team in its quest to fulfill its mandate and deliver justice services to the people of South Africa.
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post.
CLOSING DATE : 22 December 2025
NOTE : The application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that
do not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for
submission. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. A pre-entry certificate
obtained from National School of Government (NSG) is required before
appointment for all SMS positions. Candidate will complete a financial
disclosure form and also be required to undergo a security clearance.
Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must provide the Police Clearance
certificate from country of origin only when shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an
equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts the objectives of
section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of
1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment
Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies
of the Department will be taken into consideration. Reasonable
accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities including where
driver’s license is a requirement. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within 3 months of this
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful. The
department reserves the right not to fill these positions. Women and people
with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference will be given to the EE
Target.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 45/46 : DIRECTOR: FAMILY ADVOCATE REF NO: 48/25/NC/FA-KIM
SALARY : R1 494 900 – R1 787 328 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package).
The successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Family Advocate: Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) LLB or equivalent four-year Legal
Qualification as recognized by SAQA Law Degree; A minimum of 5 years’
experience at middle/senior management level; Nyukela certificate is required
for all SMS positions before appointment (Certificate for Entry into the Senior
Management Service from the School of Government); Admitted as an
Advocate; Knowledge of the South African legal system, legal practices and
related spheres with specific reference to civil litigation and the law of contract;
Knowledge of the Constitution, Institution of Legal Proceedings Against Certain
Organs of State Act, Prescription Act, the State Attorney, Public Finance
Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Department Financial Instructions
and the State Liability Act; Knowledge and experience in office administration;
Extensive knowledge of all local and international Legislation that regulates
protection of children; Knowledge of the Foundations of South African law,
South African private law, constitutional law, criminal law, intellectual property,
41
evidence and African Customary Law. Muslim Personal Law, Private
International Law; Children’s Act, The Hague Convention of the Civil Aspects
of International Child Abduction, 1996 (Act 72 of 1996), Maintenance Act,
reciprocal enforcement of Maintenance Orders Act, Child Care Act. Skills and
Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership; Project and programme
management; Financial management; Change management; Knowledge
management; Continuous improvement; Service Delivery Innovation (SDI);
Problem solving and analysis; Diversity management; Communication;
Honesty and integrity; Project management; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage and coordinate the provisioning of family
advocate services; Manage and monitor the implementation of the Hague
Convention on Civil aspects of International Child Abduction; Manage the
implementation of policies, legislative frameworks and prescripts; Manage and
monitor the provision of Forensic Social Work services; Manage human,
financial and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L. Swart Tel No: (053) 802 1317
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X6106, Kimberley, 8300. OR hand delivers at the
New Public Buildings, (Magistrates Court) of Knight and Stead Streets, 7th
floor, Kimberley, 8301 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/47 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: 25/129/CS (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum, (all -inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA in Labour
Relations/Labour Law/LLB; A minimum of 3 years experience in Labour
Relations environment at managerial (Assistant Director) level; Knowledge of
Basic Condition of Employment Act (BCEA), Labour Relations Act,
Employment Equity Act (EEA), relevant labour laws policies and procedures;
Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service statutory frameworks:
Financial Management and regulatory framework/guidelines, the Public
Service Act, the Public Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations, the Public
Finance Management Act, Government initiatives and decisions. Skills and
Competencies: Applied strategic thinking; Applied technology; Budgeting and
financial management; Communication and information management;
Continuous improvement; Citizen focus and responsiveness; Developing
others; Diversity management; Impact and influence; Managing interpersonal
conflict and resolving problems; Planning and organising; Decision making;
Project management; Team leadership; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Develop and monitor the implementation of Labour
Relations policy and strategy; Conduct misconduct and grievances; Conduct
and handle dispute resolutions; Coordinate, facilitate the collective bargaining
processes; Develop and maintain relations/partnership with relevant
stakeholder; Manage human, finance and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A van Ross Tel No: (012) 315 1094
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resource: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001. OR Physical Address:
Application Box, First Floor, Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Building, Pretoria, 0001 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 45/48 : DEPUTY MASTER (MR-6) REF NO: 2025/88/GP
SALARY : R586 956 – R1 386 972 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Master of The High Court: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : LLB degree or a four-year recognized legal qualification; 8 years appropriate
post qualification legal experience; Knowledge of the Administration of Estates
Act, Mental Health Act, Insolvency Act, Companies Act, Close Corporations
Act, Trust Property Control Act and other relevant legislations; Experience in
42
the functional fields of the services provided by the Masters of the High Court
and master’s environment including Guardian’s Fund; Understanding of
Administration of Deceased & Insolvent Estates, Curatorship’s and Trusts.
Skills and Competencies: Legal research and drafting; Dispute resolution;
Planning, organizing and analytical skills; People development and
empowerment; Strategic and conceptual orientation; Problem solving and
decision-making skills; Communication skills (verbal and written); Computer
literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Monitor and review all legal and administrative
operations at the Office of the Master of the High Court; Monitor all the
functions within the office and contribute towards the strategic objectives of
both the master’s Branch as well as the Department; Provide effective and
efficient delivery of services, financial and human resource management within
the Office of the Master; Draft legal documents that provide clear justification;
Mediate and conciliate disputes by advising on the outcome of its resolution.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs RR Moabelo Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Office, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 OR Physical address:
Department of Justice and Constitutional Development; 7th floor Schreiner
Chambers, 94 Pritchard Street; Johannesburg OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 45/49 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FACILITY MANAGEMENT REF NO: 2025/55/MP
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum. The successful candidate will be required
to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mpumalanga
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA in Property Management
/Real Estate/ Property Studies; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in facilities
management /property management/real estate environment at a supervisory
level; A valid driver’s license. Knowledge of facilities and building management
principles and best practices, Government Immovable Assets Management
Act (GIAMA) and Supply Chain Management Framework; Knowledge of
National Building Regulations, prescripts and frameworks on corporate
performance and technical knowledge within the Built Environment;
Understanding of the Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS), procurement
processes; Knowledge of the Public Service statutory frameworks: Financial
Management and regulatory framework/guidelines, the Public Service Act, the
Public Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations, the Public Finance
Management Act, Government initiatives and decisions. Skills and
Competencies: Project Management; Financial Management skills;
communications skills with the ability to motivate and direct people; Strategic
and conceptual orientation; Team oriented, and results driven; Interpersonal
relations and customer orientation; Creative and analytical; Problem solving
and conflict management; Continual learning and information search; Accuracy
and attention to detail; People Management skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Facilitate the implementation of facilities
management strategy and plan. Facilitate the provision of facilities operations
and maintenance; Facilitate the implementation of special project (repairs and
maintenance); Facilitate and monitor facilities management financial and
resource; Maintain partnerships with relevant stakeholder; Manage human,
finance and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. NC Maseko at 083 284 9056
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank centre ,4th
Floor, Building, Nelspruit, 1200 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 45/50 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SAFETY, HEALTH, ENVIRONMENT AND RISK
MANAGEMENT REF NO: 25/123/CS
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum. The successful candidate will be required
to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA in Safety
Management/Environmental Management/Occupational Health and Safety;
Registration with the relevant professional bodies for Occupational Health and
Safety Practitioner/Occupational Health Hygienist/South African Institute of
43
Occupational Hygienist (SAIOH)/South African Nursing Council for
Occupational Health Practitioners; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in Safety,
Health, Environment, Risk and Quality management environment at
supervisory level; Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHSA),
Basic Condition Employment Act (BCEA), Employment Equity Act (EEA),
Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act (COIDA), National
Environmental Management Act (NEMA), Safety at Sports and Recreational
Events Act’ (SASREA); Disaster Management Act, DPSA Strategic Framework
on Employee Health and Wellness (EHW); Knowledge of Departmental
policies, SHEIR management standards and guidelines, Health and Wellness
Integrated Strategic Framework in the Public Services; Knowledge and
understanding of the Public Service statutory frameworks: Financial
Management and regulatory framework/guidelines, the Public Service Act, the
Public Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations, the Public Finance
Management Act, Government initiatives and decisions, etc. Skills and
Competencies: Applied strategic thinking; Applied technology; Budgeting and
financial management; Communication and information management; Citizen
focus and responsiveness; Diversity Management; Impact and influence;
Managing interpersonal conflict and resolving problems; Planning and
organizing; Decision making; Project management; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Facilitate the implementation of Safety, Health,
Environment and risk strategy and plan; Facilitate the implementation of risk
management assessment and control; Facilitate the implementation of health
and safety services; Facilitate the implementation of environmental
management services; Maintain relations/ partnerships with relevant
stakeholder; Manage human, finance and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A Van RossTel No: (012) 315 1094
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resource: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001. OR Physical Address:
Application Box, First Floor, Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Building, Pretoria, 0001 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 45/51 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ASSETS VERIFICATION &
ACCOUNTING REF NO: 25/127/FMS
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required
to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA in Financial Management
/ Public Management / Administration / Auditing / Cost Management / Supply
Chain Management / Logistics / Purchasing Management / Business
Management / Financial Accounting; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in
Asset Management environment (Asset Disposal, verification and accounting);
Knowledge and understanding Financial Management and regulatory
framework/guidelines, the Public Service Act, the Public Service Regulations,
Treasury Regulations, Departmental Financial Instructions, the Public Finance
Management; Knowledge of Supply Chain Management prescript, Assets
Management framework and policies; Knowledge of BAS. Skills and
Competencies: Computer literacy; Concern of others; Interpersonal relations;
Decision making; Diversity citizenship; Communication skills (verbal and
written); Problem analysis; Self management; Team membership; Technical
proficiency.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Administer asset disposal; Update the asset register;
Reconcile asset disposal; Render general administration services; Provide
effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A Van Ross Tel No: (012) 315 1094
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address:
Application Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Street, Pretoria OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
44
POST 45/52 : LABOUR RELATIONS OFFICER: MISCONDUCT AND
GRIEVANCE/DISPUTES MANAGEMENT/COLLECTIVE BARGAINING REF
NO: 25/128/CS (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required
to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF Level 6 qualification as recognised by SAQA in Labour
Relations/Labour Law/LLB; A minimum of 2 years’ functional experience in
Labour Relations environment; Knowledge and understanding of relevant
labour laws, policies and procedures; Knowledge of Basic Condition of
Employment Act; Labour Relations Act, Employment Equity Act; Knowledge of
understanding of the Public Service statutory frameworks; Financial
Management and regulatory framework/guidelines, Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations, Departmental Financial
Instructions, Public Finance Management Act, Government initiatives and
decisions etc. Skills and Competencies: Creative thinking; Citizen service
orientation; Decision making; Diversity management; Good communication
(verbal and written) skills; Problem analysis; Computer literacy; Report writing
skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Administer and implement Labour relations policy
and strategy; Handle misconduct and grievances; Handle and administer
dispute resolutions; Administer collective bargaining processes; Manage
human, finance and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A van Ross Tel No: (012) 315 1094
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address:
Application Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Street, Pretoria OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 45/53 : LEGAL SECRETARY REF NO: 25/VA35/NW
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required
to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Office of The State Attorney
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (with typing as subject or Secretarial Certificate or relevant
training/qualification that will enable the person to perform the work
satisfactorily; No previous experience required. Skills and Competencies:
Communication (Verbal and written); Good interpersonal relations; Computer
literacy; Planning and organizing skills; Attention to details; Integrity and
loyalty; Knowledge of the relevant policies and prescripts; Good telephone
etiquette; Sound organizing skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide secretarial and administrative support;
Render administrative support for meetings, functions and conferences;
Provide general clerical office administration; Prepare documents for the
process to pay accounts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L Shoai Tel No: (018) 397 7088
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at 22
Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mafikeng OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 45/54 : MESSENGER/DRIVER REF NO: 25/125/LD
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum. The successful candidate will be required
to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10/ Abet qualification; A valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies:
Interpersonal relations skills; Communication skills; Customer service
orientation; Problem analysis; Self-management; Attention to detail; Technical
proficiency; Ability to work under pressure and in a team.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render driver/messenger support services; Collect,
deliver and serve documents; Distribute mail and parcels to the various offices;
Collect correspondence from respective government institutions; Transport
officials to various destinations; Render clerical support services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Sema Tel No: (012) 315 1333
45
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001.OR Physical address:
Application Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Street, Pretoria.
POST 45/55 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: 25/VA35/NW
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum. The successful candidate will be required
to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office: North West
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 4/Grade 10. Skills and Competencies: Communication skills (verbal
and written); Planning and organizing skills; Customer service; Attention to
detail; Interpersonal skills; Ability to work under pressure; Conflict
management.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide catering support services; Serve food and
beverages during meetings; Clean kitchen utensils and equipment; Check
cutlery, prepare and clean conference facility; Monitor supply of food and report
waste and losses.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L Shoai Tel No: (018) 397 7088
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at 22
Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mafikeng OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
46
ANNEXURE K
DEPARTMENT OF LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
CLOSING DATE : 22 December 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS submission of proof. Shortlisted
applicants for the advertised vacancies will undergo two pre-entry
assessments: a practical assessment and an integrity assessment, both of
which form part of the selection criteria after the interview, the selection
committee will recommend candidates for a generic management competency
assessment, as per the Department of public Service and Administration
(DPSA) directives. The assessment will evaluate candidates’ managerial
competencies using standardised tools. NB: Please note that false or
fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will be reported to the South
African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case shall be opened.
Applications: Please submit your application before the closing date as late
applications will not be considered. Did not submit duplicate applications. If
applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for each post. Due to
high volumes, the Department will not acknowledge receipt of applications. If
you have not heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application
to be unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DLRRD is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right no to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 45/56 : REGISTRAR OF DEEDS (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
package includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that
may be structured in accordance with the rules for the Senior Management
Services (SMS)
CENTRE : North Gauteng Deeds Registry: Pretoria Ref No: 3/1/1/1/2025/35
KwaZulu – Natal Deeds Registry: Pietermaritzburg Ref No: 3/1/1/1/2025/39
North–West Deeds Registry: Mahikeng Ref No: 3/1/1/1/2025/33
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a B Proc (NQF Level 7) / LLB (NQF Level 7) / B Uris (NQF Level
47
7) / Advance Diploma: Estate and Trust Administration or related equivalent
qualification (NQF Level 7) with Diploma in Deeds Registration Law and a
Nyukela (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to appointment.
Minimum of 5 years’ experience at Senior Management level / Deputy
Registrar of Deeds in property conveyance. Job related knowledge:
Registration of deeds, Interpretation of Statute. Examination of Deeds,
Research and information analysis, Human Resources prescripts, Project
management principles and tools, Court procedures, Supply chain
management prescript and financial management. Job related skills: Computer
skills. Communication skills. Organising skills. Problem-solving skills.
Interpersonal skills. Report writing skills. Presentation skills. Policy analyses
and development. Good Judgement and assertive skills. Time management.
Analytical skills. Financial management skills. Project management.
Management of Resources. Negotiation. Influencing skills. Appropriate
courses in Management Practices. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage registration of deeds in accordance with relevant legislation. Manage
examination and register deeds in compliance with Deeds Registries Act of
1937 and Sectional Title Act of 1986 as well as common, statutory, and case
law and recognized practices and procedures and Chief Registrar of Deeds
directives. Ensure deeds are made available from lodgement for execution.
Expedite examination of deeds for rural development, land reform and RDP
housing in compliance with Deeds Registries Act of 1937 and Sectional Title
Act of 1986 as well common, statutory and case law and recognized practices
and procedures. Draft the Registrars circular and notice. Comment of Chief
Registrars circulars. Comment on bills and draft directives regarding land
registration and related matters. Manage the Deeds Trading Account, Human
Resource and Supply Chain Management. Ensure that creditors are paid within
prescribed timeframe. Manage collection of revenue. Manage the recruitment
and selection. Manage the performance management system of the office.
Draft and implement management action plan on audit findings. Manage
Supply Chain Processes. Monitor usage of Information Communication
Technology (ICT) systems. Manage labour relations matters. Manage
registration, capturing, archiving and delivery of deeds. Update the land
register. Archive deeds and documents. Deliver registered deeds and
documents. Provide deeds related information and copies to clients. Provide
deeds related information and copies to account holder clients. Approve
reports to court and advise the high court, law society and other local
institutions accordingly. Adjudicate on the registration cases where no
precedence exist and advice clients where difficulties are experienced with the
drafting and registration of deeds. Increase the office visibility through outreach
programs.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MSM Magoele Tel No: (012) 337 9330 and Ms TP Masilela Tel No: (012)
338 7395
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: Agric
Place. Office of the Chief Registrar of Deeds at 20 Steve Biko Rd (formely
Beatrix) Street, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0083 or by email to:
North Gauteng Deeds Registriy: Pretoria Advert1@deeds.gov.za
KwaZulu-Natal Deeds Registry: Pietermaritzburg Advert1B@deeds.gov.za
North-West Deeds Registry: Mahikeng Advert1C@deeds.gov.za
(Please separate Application Form for each post) before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African and Coloured Females as
well as Persons with Disabilities.
POST 45/57 : DIRECTOR: QUALITY ASSURANCE REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/29
Chief Directorate: Deeds Finance and Corporate Support
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
package includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that
may be structured in accordance with the rules for the Senior Management
Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Office of The Chief Registrar of Deeds: Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree / Advanced Diploma in Accounting /
Auditing / Managerial Accounting and Finance (NQF Level 7) or related
equivalent qualifications and a Nyukela (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS)
submitted prior to appointment. Minimum of 5 years’ experience at middle /
48
senior management level in External Audit, Internal Control, Financial
Management and Financial Reporting environment. Knowledge of Accounting
and Financial Reporting Framework (GRAP) and relating developments by the
ASB. Knowledge of Auditing specifically, including but not limited to
international standards on Auditing. Knowledge of Internal controls (Financial
and IT) (Applicable and General Controls). Knowledge of Financial
Management processes and procedures. Knowledge of Supply Chain
Management processes and procedures. Knowledge of Human Resource
Management processes and procedures. Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act and relating regulations including public sector governance.
Knowledge of Risk Management and Risk Assessment and Monitoring
Techniques. Proven managerial and Project management skills. Good
planning, organising and problem-solving skills. Good communication (verbal
and written) skills. Computer Skills.
DUTIES : Ensure quality assurance of financial statements by verifying accuracy,
completeness, classification, valuation, and compliance with GRAP and other
relevant accounting standards. Ensure requisite knowledge of financial
statements to ensure that they comply knowledge of accounting standards and
interpretations (including implementation guides) and consultations. Review
interim and annual financial statements to ensure that they comply with the
relevant financial reporting framework (standards of GRAP and interpretations)
and are prepared in line with the relevant financial reporting framework. Review
reports supporting financial statements and other supporting schedules.
Review accounts transactions and account balances for compliance with
internal financial controls (Completeness, occurrence, cut off, classification,
accuracy, valuation, existence and rights and obligations). Ensure that other
officials preparing and reviewing financial statements and reports have the
requisite knowledge that is line with the relevant financial reporting framework
and in line with the accounting standards board’s requirements for prepares
and reviewers of financial statement. Coordinate the formulation of creative
and innovative solutions to enhance financial system effectiveness. Ensure of
the keeping abreast with the financial prescript’s amendments via consultation
with the ASB, SAICA and National Treasury. Assist in the development and
implementation of branch risk (operational, strategic, fraud and project risk)
and manage a monitoring and accountable system for branch risk (operational,
strategic and fraud risk). Ensure that risk assessments for strategic, operational
and fraud risk are performed timeously and accurately to contribute to planning
process of the entity. Ensure timeous review of strategic, operational and fraud
risk within the entity. Ensure monitoring of implementation of risk actions plans
(designed into effective internal controls. Ensure to keep abreast with risk
knowledge and principles as and when changes occur. Ensure an effective and
efficient control environment by ensuring compliance and adherence to
prescripts, laws and regulations through guidance and development of internal
polices and standard operating procedures that are compliant with laws and
regulations applicable to the entity. Develop policies and procedures that
promote compliance and adherence to prescripts, laws and regulations for
Supply Chain and Facility Management. Ensure compliance with laws and
regulations relating to irregular, fruitless and wasteful and unauthorised
expenditure by designing internal control that will reduce and eventually
eliminate irregular, fruitless, and wasteful expenditure and unauthorized
expenditure. Develop and maintain compliance checklist for irregular, fruitless
and wasteful expenditure. Design controls to identify, detect and report on
irregular, fruitless and wasteful expenditure. Ensure that the controls above are
well integrated into the control environment of the entity. Ensure officials are
adequately trained on matters of irregular, fruitless and wasteful expenditure.
Review AFS and ensure adequate and complete disclosure for irregular,
fruitless and wasteful expenditure, and unauthorised expenditure. Design,
review, and monitor implementation of internal controls (Financial controls,
Supply Chain and Facility Management controls, Human Resource and
Records Management controls and business-related controls to an extent.
Design internal control framework that will be built into an environment that is
functioning. Ensure that control environment for Financial, Human Resource
and Records Management, Supply Chain and Facility Management it controls
are sound. Implement and review sound internal controls in areas of Finance,
Supply Chain and Facility Management, and Human Resource and Records
Management. Design, review, and monitor implementation of internal controls
(Financial controls, Supply Chain and Facility Management controls, Human
49
Resource and Records Management controls and business-related controls to
an extent). Design internal control framework that will be built into an
environment that is functioning. Ensure that control environment for Financial,
Human Resource and Records Management, Supply Chain and Facility
Management it controls are sound. Implement and review sound internal
controls in areas of Finance, Supply Chain and Facility Management, and
Human Resource and Records Management. Ensure effective and efficient
support for registries offices in the area of development and implementation of
internal controls. Develop an efficient system of ensuring that audits are run
smoothly within the branch, and this includes; Internal Audits and External
Audits.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Saila Tel No: (012) 337 9387 and Ms MSM Magoele Tel No: (012) 337
9330
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: Agric
Place. Office of the Chief Registrar of Deeds at 20 Steve Biko Rd (formely
Beatrix) Street, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0083 or by email to Advert5@deeds.gov.za
(Please separate Application Form for each post) before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African and Coloured Females as
well as Persons with Disabilities.
POST 45/58 : DIRECTOR: ENTITY DEVELOPMENT REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/30
Chief Directorate: Programme Management - Entity Development
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13) (All-inclusive remuneration package) The
package includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that
may be structured in accordance with the rules for the Senior Management
Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Office of The Chief Registrar of Deeds: Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree / Advanced Diploma in Project
Management / Public Administration / Public Management / Business
Administration (NQF Level 7) or related equivalent qualification and a Nyukela
(Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to appointment. Minimum of
5 years’ experience at middle/senior managerial level in project and
programme management. Knowledge of planning resource allocation and
performance management of outcomes department wide. Develop and
implement a consistent corporate performance management of outcomes
department wide. Initiate and coordinate the implementation of strategic
Branch projects to improve the ability to meet strategic outcomes and service
delivery objectives exercising appropriate discretion to achieve required
outcomes. Design, plan and allocate project / programme resources and
manage outcomes performance. Develop and implement consistent corporate
performance monitoring to focus on the delivery of Branch outcomes. Develop
and implement a corporate and project governance framework and Entity
activity process including planning, monitoring and reporting and ensuring that
strategic priorities are accessed for risk and value through the application of
governance principles and processes. Maintain, develop and implement a
Corporate Governance Framework (CCF) to ensure high standards of
accountability and the effective delivery of the department's objectives and
community value. Analytical and problem-solving skills. Strong technical skills.
Attention to details. Organisation and time management. Interpersonal and
communication skills. Management and leadership skills. Budget forecasting
skills. Willingness to travel. Team work. Work under pressure. A valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Compile project and programme status reports and maintain the Project
Management System / performance dashboards for the Entity. Set programme
/ project indicators of targets to be achieved. Measure and document progress,
achievements and results of programme / project achievements. Maintain
project document management and project management tools and system.
Analyse and evaluate data collected to determine target achievement.
Evaluate and measure the impact of the programme / project performance.
Quality assures project performance dashboard for the Entity. Maintain the
programme governance and model and projects management to ensure that
the department's statutory and regulatory obligations are met. Develop and
maintain programme / project performance information dashboard. Coordinate
project audit action plans and reports. Facilitate and co-ordinate programme
50
and project risk assessment sessions. Co-ordinate reporting on audit findings
for the Branch. Establish and manage operations effectively. Develop and
monitor programme annual operational plan. Establish and coordinate project
plans, schedules and budgets. Manage project / programme communication
and stakeholders. Compile and be accountable for programme / project
performance reports. Coordinate entity change management initiatives.
Establish service provider protocols. Establish and manage an effective and
efficient results-based programme management office. Manage and ensure
adherence to the Entity's project management methodologies and tools.
Standardize project and programme management best practices and
processes. Manage and allocate resources effectively across all projects by
managing priorities based on timelines, budgets, human resources. Manage
programme deliverables and outcomes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Saila Tel No: (012) 337 9387 and Ms MSM Magoele Tel No: (012) 337
9330
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: Agric
Place. Office of the Chief Registrar of Deeds at 20 Steve Biko Rd (formely
Beatrix) Street, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0083 or by email to Advert4@deeds.gov.za
(Please separate Application Form for each post) before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE targets: Coloured and White Males and African and Coloured Females as
well as Persons with Disabilities.
POST 45/59 : DIRECTOR: DEEDS ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURE REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2025/31
Chief Directorate: Deeds ICT
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
package includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that
may be structured in accordance with the rules for the Senior Management
Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Office of The Chief Registrar of Deeds: Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a Degree / BTech in Information Technology / Computer
Science (NQF Level 7) or related equivalent qualification and a Nyukela (Pre-
entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to appointment. Minimum of 5
years’ experience at middle / senior managerial level in Information Technology
environment. Knowledge of Deeds Registration systems (DRS, Deeds Office
Tracking System, DeedsWeb, DeedsView, DeedsScan and DeedsVerify).
Knowledge of Cadastral information systems and the related databases.
Knowledge and the ability to develop solutions to implement key business
strategies. Ability to establish rapport and drive consensus and change at all
levels of the organisation. Ability to make appropriate decisions considering the
relative costs and benefits of potential. Knowledge of database solutions,
application services, messaging backbone, application integration and
architecture patterns. In-depth knowledge of GWEA (Government Wide
Enterprise Architecture). Computer literacy. Good written and verbal
communication skills. Good judgement and assertiveness skills. Analytical
skills. Decision making. Interpersonal relation. Project Management. Problem
solving. Valid Driver’s license.
DUTIES : Develop Deeds Application, and Technology architecture: Design, develop,
review and approve requirements, specifications and deliverables related to
solution for Deeds. Design, develop, review and approve requirements,
specifications and deliverables for EA for Deeds. Initiate and implement
changes. Compile TOR’s and specifications for technology procurement.
Compile and submit specifications for technology procurement. Determine ICT
standards, frameworks and policies. Provide advice in the procurement of new
technology for Deeds. Advice on the management of strategy, strategic
planning, audit and governance. Consult, recommend and advise Senior
Management on process, technology and strategy. Review IA and external
audit process, reports and manage responses and action plans. Determine
content management processes and procedures Advise, recommend and
evaluate business processes. Provide a consultancy service regarding the
framework and underlying rule sets that govern an infrastructure base upon
which applications can be built, ported and integrated in order to support the
business processes of the enterprise. Provide a consultation service regarding
infrastructure component architectures, include the architecture for the
51
computing platform, the network, infrastructure software, middleware and
database architecture. Manage the Modernization of Deeds Registration
Applications. Manage the conversion of the current DRS database. Manage
the conversion and redevelopment of the DRS applications. Manage the
refurbishment of deeds Web applications. Manage quality on enterprise
architecture and solution design and specification. Approve all system
specification, architecture deliverables and standards. Conduct research on
the latest enterprise architectural technologies and requirements. Provide
quality assurance on the development of solution in the Deeds environment.
Ensure alignment with the Government enterprise architecture. Manage IT
frameworks, standards and services. Innovate in the structure or processes of
an organization. Innovate in the use of information systems or technologies.
Integrate and / or standardize business processes. Improve quality and
timeliness of business information. Recommend and approve POC’s and
Pilots. Procure new technology for research and development. Evaluate new
technology and procure and implement. Review, recommend and implement
frameworks and standards for system development and implementation.
Manage service providers for development and implementation of ICT systems
and technology.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Saila Tel No: (012) 337 9387 and Ms MSM Magoele Tel No: (012) 337
9330
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: Agric
Place. Office of the Chief Registrar of Deeds at 20 Steve Biko Rd (formely
Beatrix) Street, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0083 or by email to Advert6@deeds.gov.za
(Please separate Application Form for each post) before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African and Coloured Females as
well as Persons with Disabilities.
POST 45/60 : DIRECTOR: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS AND SECURITY
MANAGEMENT REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/32
Chief Directorate: Deeds ICT
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
package includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that
may be structured in accordance with the rules for the Senior Management
Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Office of The Chief Registrar of Deeds: Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a Degree or BTech in Computer Science / Information
Technology / Information Security (NQF Level 7) or relevant equivalent
qualification and a Nyukela (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior
to appointment. Minimum of 5 years’ experience at Middle / Senior Managerial
level in ICT environment. Knowledge of Big Data Analysis / Data Analytics,
Project Management. Extensive knowledge of full Oracle infrastructure and
software stack, IT security standards and ISO (International Organization for
Standardization) 27000 Framework Implementation. Analytical and problem-
solving skills. Strong technical skills. The ability to work well under pressure.
Attention to detail. Teamworking skills. Organization and time management.
Interpersonal and communication skills. Management and leadership skills.
Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Define Deeds business Information management strategies and solutions:
Identification of Deeds Registration information needs. Develop and implement
strategies for acquisition and creation of information that enhance business
services. Analysis and interpretation of Deeds Registration information and
data assets. Define and manage information access and dissemination
procedures. Ensure business continuity, ICT governance and compliance:
Coordinate, assess, develop and communicate contingency requirements and
recovery. plans in-line with business BCP requirements. Work closely with
Deeds Registration senior managers to develop and review the overall ICT
budget (operating and capital). Provide subject matter expertise and lead
continuous Improvement and benchmarking activities on Risk, Compliance
and Audit controls through liaison and coordination with key stakeholders.
Plan, manage and conduct BCP and DR testing on all Deeds ICT services and
systems. Manage, analyze, design and develop business intelligence for
Deeds business processes. Establish strategy and roadmap for data and
business intelligence products. Build and develop Deeds Registration market
52
requirements. knowledge with a focus on understanding the organization’s
market requirements. Design, build and deploy BI solutions (e.g. reporting
tools). Implement, maintain and support data analytics platforms. Identify,
develop and implement processes to manage and reduce risks and threats to
business information. Identify and protect company Deeds Registration ICT
systems and data through the development and implementation of security
protocols. Make sure that staff follow security procedures and guidelines
through training programs and assessments. Perform information security
process evaluations and inspections. Prepare the organization and staff for
external inspections. Manage and control the budget for information security
operations within the organization. Monitor manage and control security
incidents. Manage communication of security incidences. Ensure the ICT
infrastructure and network is secure and protected from cyber threats. Manage
ICT infrastructure including server and network configuration, security,
accessibility, connectivity, and backup. Manage IT Information Security Policy
and ensure compliance to it. Ensure compliance with internal and external
information security requirements, maintain awareness of latest cyber-security
threats and implement security measures to minimise risk to information
assets. Ensure ICT systems are secure and resilient, carrying out proactive
maintenance (e.g. patching) and ensuring processes and configurations are
clearly documented. Identify and take actions to manage ICT related risks and
Audit Findings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Saila Tel No: (012) 337 9387 and Ms MSM Magoele Tel No: (012) 337
9330
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: Agric
Place. Office of the Chief Registrar of Deeds at 20 Steve Biko Rd (formely
Beatrix) Street, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0083 or by email to Advert7@deeds.gov.za
(Please separate Application Form for each post) before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African and Coloured Females as
well as Persons with Disabilities.
POST 45/61 : DEPUTY REGISTRAR OF DEEDS (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
package includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that
may be structured in accordance with the rules for the Senior Management
Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Deeds Registry: Mthatha (Directorate: Examination, Execution
and Deeds Training) Ref No: 3/1/1/1/2025/37
North-West Deeds Registry: Mahikeng (Directorate: Examination, Execution
and Deeds Training) Ref No: 3/1/1/1/2025/34
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a B Proc (NQF Level 7) / LLB (NQF Level 7) / B Uris (NQF Level
7) / Advance Diploma: Estate and Trust Administration or related equivalent
qualification (NQF Level 7) with Diploma in Deeds Registration Law and a
Nyukela (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to appointment.
Minimum of 5 years’ experience at Middle / Senior Managerial level / Assistant
Registrar of Deeds / Deeds Law Lecturer / Deputy Registrar of Deeds in
property conveyance. Knowledge of Registration of deeds, Interpretation of
Statute, Examination of Deeds, Research and information analysis, Human
resources prescripts, Project management principles and tools, Court
procedures, Supply chain management prescript and financial management.
Computer skills. Communication skills. Organising skills. Problem-solving
skills. Interpersonal skills. Report writing skills. Presentation skills. Policy
analyses and development. Resources. Negotiation. Influencing skills.
Appropriate courses in Management Practices. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage the process of examination and the registration of deeds and
documents. Manage examination and register deeds in compliance with Deeds
Registries Act of 1937 and Titles Act of 1986 as well as common, statutory and
case law and recognized practices and procedures and Chief Registrar of
Deeds directives. Analyse standards of examination and draft report to
Registrar. Grant hearings to Conveyancers with regard to examination matters
and make rulings. Provide rural development support pertaining to the
registration matters. Advise the Courts on request regarding the feasibility of
the applications. Comment on Draft Bills and Chief Registrars Circulars
regarding land registration and related matters. Oversee the execution
53
process. Approve requests for late and expedited executions and for final
black-booking. Oversee conveyancing problems encountered on deeds and
give guidance. Oversee execution register of Conveyancers. Oversee the
sorting and distribution of deeds. Oversee the workload, workflow, processes
and standards and implement corrective measures to prevent and address
backlogs / challenges. Manage the turnaround times for deeds to be made
available from lodgement to execution. Oversee statistics, exception reports
and implement corrective measures. Approve request for withdrawal of deeds.
Oversee the update of procedure manual. Manage deeds training and
development and library services. Manage the Practice Committee / Examiner
Forum and issue circulars. Manage implementation of deeds training and
examination development plan. Oversee library services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MSM Magoele Tel No: (012) 337 9330 and Ms TP Masilela Tel No: (012)
338 7395
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: Agric
Place. Office of the Chief Registrar of Deeds at 20 Steve Biko Rd (formely
Beatrix) Street, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0083 or by email to Eastern Cape Deeds
Registry: Mthatha Advert3A@deeds.gov.za
North West Deeds Registry: Mahikeng Advert3B@deeds.gov.za, (Please
separate Application Form for each post) before the closing date as no late
applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African and Coloured Females as
well as Persons with Disabilities.
POST 45/62 : DEPUTY REGISTRAR OF DEEDS (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
package includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that
may be structured in accordance with the rules for the Senior Management
Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Limpopo Deeds Registry: Polokwane (Directorate: Registration and
Information Services) Ref No: 3/1/1/1/2025/40
Eastern Cape Deeds Registry: Qonce (Directorate: Registration and
Information Services) Ref No: 3/1/1/1/2025/38
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a B Proc (NQF Level 7) / LLB (NQF Level 7) / B Uris (NQF Level
7) / Advance Diploma: Estate and Trust Administration or related equivalent
qualification (NQF Level 7) with Diploma in Deeds Registration Law and a
Nyukela (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to appointment.
Minimum of 5 years’ experience at Middle / Senior Management level /
Assistant Registrar of Deeds / Deeds Law Lecturer / Deputy Registrar of Deeds
in property conveyance. Knowledge of: Registration of deeds, Interpretation of
Statutes, Examination of Deeds, Research and information analysis, Human
resources prescripts, Project management principles and tools, Court
procedures, Supply chain management prescript and financial management.
Computer skills. Communication skills. Organising skills. Problem-solving
skills. Interpersonal skills. Report writing skills. Presentation skills. Policy
analyses and development. Resources. Negotiation. Influencing skills.
Appropriate courses in Management Practices. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Oversee the registration section. Oversee the workload, workflow processes
and standards and implement corrective measures. Provide guidance on
noting and withdrawal of interdicts. Oversee correspondence and give
guidance to clients. Oversee the information section and DOTS services.
Manage the turnaround times for the provision of information to clients.
Manage the deeds tracking system. Manage the turnaround times on DOTS
enquiries, Manage presidential / departmental inquiries and compile a report.
Approve complaints register action plan. Monitor the completion of client
satisfaction surveys report, Approve the Service Delivery Improvement plan.
Oversee the archiving of deeds / documents. Archive deeds and documents.
Deliver registered deeds and documents. Maintain the updating of the deeds
registration database. Update the land register. Manage the turnaround times
and standards for capturing of deeds information on Deeds Registration
System (DRS). Manage support services in deeds registration systems.
Provide support for deeds registration systems. Liaise with the office of the
Chief Registrar on system issues. Oversee systems related helpdesk support.
Provide deeds rural development and land reform support services. Provide
support to rural development and land reform components. Participate in the
54
provincial planning committees. Advise on registration related matters. Advise
on the application of provincial legislation regarding registration matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MSM Magoele Tel No: (012) 337 9330 and Ms TP Masilela Tel No: (012)
338 7395
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: Agric
Place. Office of the Chief Registrar of Deeds at 20 Steve Biko Rd (formely
Beatrix) Street, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0083 or by email to Limpopo Deeds Registry:
Polokwane Advert2A@deeds.gov.za
Eastern Cape Deeds Registry: Qonce Advert2B@deeds.gov.za (Please
separate Application Form for each post) before the closing date as no late
applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African and Coloured Females as
well as Persons with Disabilities.
POST 45/63 : DIRECTOR: PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL AUDIT REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2025/16
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Chief Directorate: Internal Audit: Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced Diploma in Internal Auditing
(NQF Level 7) and a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS).
Minimum of 5 years of experience at middle / senior managerial level
(operational management, auditing). Membership of the Institute of Internal
Auditors is recommended. Job related knowledge: Project management best
practice, The Standards of the Institute of Internal Auditors, Risk based
Performance Audit and financial audit methodologies and procedures. Job
related skills: Communication (verbal and written), Interviewing, Analytical and
problem-solving ability, Staff and interpersonal, Project management skills,
Computer, Business process analysis, Risk and control assessment and
Analytical. Work under pressure and meet deadlines. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Compile the Performance and Financial Audit Directorate’s strategic and
operational plan in line with the Chief Directorate’s quality standards,
methodologies, policies and procedures on an annual basis. Compile the
Performance and Financial Audit Directorate’s operational plan by April each
year. Manage the compilation of the Performance and Financial Audit
Directorate’s operational and process risk registers by April each year. Compile
the Performance and Financial Audit Directorate’s portion of the strategic 3-
year rolling and annual internal audit plans by April each year. Coordinate with
other internal and external service assurance providers to ensure proper risk
coverage and to minimise duplication of effort. Manage the implementation of
the Performance and Financial Audit Directorate’s strategic and operational
plans in line with the Chief Directorate’s quality standards, methodologies,
policies and procedures on a continuous basis. Manage the achievement of
the Performance and Financial Audit Directorate’s operational plan objectives
on a continuous basis and report progress to the Chief Audit Executive
monthly. Manage the achievement of the Performance and Financial Audit
Directorate’s risk register action plans on a continuous basis and report
progress to the Chief Audit Executive monthly. Manage the achievement of the
Performance and Financial Audit Directorate’s risk register action plans on a
continuous basis and report progress to the Chief Audit Executive monthly.
Manage the achievement of the Performance and Financial Audit Directorate’s
portion of the internal audit strategic 3-year rolling and annual internal audit
plans’ deliverables on a continuous basis and report progress to the Chief Audit
Executive monthly. Manage the implementation of the Performance and
Financial Audit Internal Audit Reports’ Action Plans by line management on a
quarterly basis. Manage the requests for progress reports from line
management on the implementation of all relevant action plans on all
Performance and Financial Audit Directorate’s internal audit reports on a
quarterly basis. Analyse the line managements’ status of implementation of
action plans of the Performance and Financial Audit Directorate’s internal audit
reports and clarify the statuses with line managers on a quarterly basis.
Manage the preparation of progress reports on the implementation of
management action plans of the Performance and Financial Audit Directorate’s
internal audit reports presentations to the Audit Committee and Director-
55
General on a quarterly basis. Manage the Performance and Financial Audit
Directorate’s generally conformance to the International Institute of Internal
Auditors’ Standards on a continuous basis. Perform quality assurance reviews
on the planning, execution, reporting and closure phases’ deliverables of all
Performance and Financial Audit Directorate’s audit projects in conformance
to the Internal Audit Methodology and the International Institute of Internal
Auditor’s Standards on a continuous basis. Participate in the Annual Internal
Quality Assessment Review and the five yearly external quality assessment
review and implement the actions plans of the reports by the set target dates.
Manage the reliance of the Auditor-General of South Africa on the work
performed and reports issued by the Performance and Financial Audit
Directorate monthly and report progress to the Audit Committee and the
Director-General on an annual basis. Manage the Performance and Financial
Audit Directorate’s resources. Manage human, logistical and financial
resources allocated to this position on an on-going basis in line with
Departmental prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K De La Rouviere Tel No: (012) 312 9837
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to P16@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African and Coloured Females and
Persons with disabilities.
POST 45/64 : DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL AND SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT SERVICES
REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/44
Directorate: Financial and Supply Chain Management Services
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor's Degree or Advanced Diploma in Cost
Management Accounting / Financial Management / Accounting / Public
Finance / Auditing / Supply Chain Management / Logistics Management /
Purchasing Management / (NQF Level 7) or related equivalent qualification and
a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS). Minimum of 5 years'
experience at middle / senior managerial level in the relevant environment. Job
related knowledge: Extensive knowledge of Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles, Treasury Regulations and Generally Reviewed Accounting
Principles. Job related skills: Coaching and mentoring (Through leadership),
Presentation, Analytical, Adaptability and flexibility, Customer service,
Initiative, Innovation and creativity, Process improvement, Communication
(verbal and written), Project management and Computer literate. Willingness
to travel. A valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Ensure compliance to financial management standards by adhering to policies
and guidelines. Ensure compliance with Public Finance Management Act,
Treasury Regulations and other related legislation and instructions. Ensure
implementation of policies, systems, procedures, and processes to ensure
sound financial management. Oversee financial support services within
provincial shared service centres. Manage financial accounting processes.
Manage the departmental budget. Manage salaries and payroll. Maintenance
of finance systems. Oversee supply chain, facilities and office administration.
Manage the Demand management plan and acquisition of goods, services and
assets. Provide logistics, travel and transport services. Provide asset and
facilities management. Oversee financial management support services.
Provide internal control and reporting services. Develop and maintain budget
and reporting. Provide payment services. Provide asset revenue management.
Provide lease revenue management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Nemalili Tel No: (012) 337 3656
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to:
Suncardia building, 6th floor, 524 Corner Stanza Bopape and Steve Biko
Street, Arcadia, 0083 or by email to P44@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African and Coloured Females and
Persons with disabilities.
56
POST 45/65 : DIRECTOR: PLANNING INSTITUTIONS SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2025/45
Chief Directorate: Planning Facilitation
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree in Town and Regional Planning / Urban
and Regional Planning (NQF Level 7) and a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry
Certificate to the SMS). Registered as a Professional Planner with the South
African Council for Planners (SACPLAN). Minimum of 5 years’ experience at a
middle / senior managerial level in a Spatial Planning and Land Use
Management (SPLUM) environment. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of the
following: Spatial Planning and Land Use Management Act and related
legislation, Planning Profession Act, Land Survey Act, Disaster Management
Act, Local Government Municipal Systems Act, Local Government Municipal
Structures Acts, National Disaster Management Frameworks, White Paper on
Spatial Planning and Land Use Management, National Development Plan,
National Spatial Development Framework, Application of development
concepts and initiatives, Understanding of Spatial Planning and Land Use
Management, Planning policy environment, Knowledge of intergovernmental
legislation, Knowledge of governmental plans and programmes, Geographic
Information Systems (GIS), Policy development. Job related skills: Computer
literacy, Good communication (written and verbal), Negotiation, Financial
management, Project management, Team management and Interpersonal
skills. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Monitor compliance with legislative duties land use regulators and other
planning institutions. Develop tools and systems to monitor compliance by land
use regulators and other planning institutions. Identify interventions to monitor
compliance by land use regulators and other planning institutions. Develop
reports compliance by land use regulators and other planning institutions.
Provide technical and financial support to statutory bodies, South African
Council for Planners (SACPLAN). Provide oversight of technical support to
statutory bodies (SACPLAN). Provide oversight of financial support to statutory
bodies (SACPLAN). Develop report on technical and financial support to
statutory bodies (SACPLAN). Maintain best practices and administrative
efficiency of land use management institutions. Develop best practices
manuals. Develop tools to monitor implementation of best practices and
administrative efficiency of land use management institutions. Develop reports
on the implementation of best practice and administrative efficiency of land use
management institutions. Regulate the planning profession including planning
institutions and provide training. Develop Training Manuals. Support the
Implementation of the Planning Profession Act. Develop reports on Training.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Hay Tel No: (012) 312 8027
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to P45@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets:Coloured and White Males and African and Coloured Females and
Persons with disabilities.
POST 45/66 : DIRECTOR: SPATIAL COORDINATION REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/46
Chief Directorate: Intergrated Spatial Planning
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree in Town and Regional Planning / Urban
and Regional Planning or any relevant equivalent qualification (NQF Level 7)
and a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS). Registration with
the South African Council for Planners (SACPLAN) as a Professional Planner.
Minimum of 5 years’ experience at a middle / senior managerial level. Job
related knowledge: Knowledge of Spatial Planning and Land Use Management
Act (SPLUMA) and related legislation, Application of development concepts
57
and initiatives, Knowledge of Intergovernmental legislation, Knowledge for
government plans and programmes Job related skills: Computer literacy, Good
communication (written and verbal), Negotiation, Financial management,
Project management, Team management and Interpersonal. A valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Develop tools to promote the alignment and coordination of spatial plans.
Promote and use of existing Spatial Planning and Land Use Management Act
(SPLUMA) tools and systems. Coordinate SPLUMA implementation reports by
Municipalities. Promote spatial planning and land use management
implementation by all relevant sectors and spheres of government. Evaluation
and reporting on Spatial Development Plans. Coordinate database of spatial
plans across different sectors and spheres. Determine alignment of spatial
plans with strategic national spatial development framework. Ensure sharing
of information and feedback loop across sectors and spheres of government.
Promote best practices and promote innovation within the sector. Facilitate
spatial alignment and integration of projects / programmes of different spheres.
Coordinate activities for Spatial Governance structures. Coordinate
Intergovermental spatial alignment. Coordinate activities for spatial planning
Governance Structures. Promote strategic spatial alignment. Identify,
participate and produce guiding reports on projects and programmes
coordinated by the three spheres of government and other sectors. Coordinate
international relationships through National and Provincial Spatial Fora.
Facilitate spatial planning and land use management national and provincial
forums. Facilitate dialogue and information sharing among all stakeholders i.e
government, private sector, academia, State Owned Entities (SOEs) and Non-
Profit Organisations (NPOs). Facilitate stakeholder engagement with various
stakeholders. Establish bi-lateral relations within Southern African
Development Community (SADC) and the African Continent. Facilitate learning
platform of specific agendas with other nations. Import lessons for spatial
coordination and integration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Matsila Tel No: (012) 312 8030
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to P46@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African and Coloured Females and
Persons with disabilities.
POST 45/67 : DIRECTOR: ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING SERVICES REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2025/47
Chief Directorate: Spatial Development Planning
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree in Town and Regional Planning /
Environmental Management / Development Studies (NQF Level 7) and a
Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS). Minimum of 5 years’
experience at a middle / senior managerial level in Environmental Planning
Management. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of Spatial Planning and Land
Use Management Act (SPLUMA) and related legislation, Application of
development concepts and initiatives, Understanding of Spatial Planning and
Land Use Management policy environment, Knowledge of intergovernmental
legislation, Knowledge for governments plans and programmes, Geographic
Information Systems (GIS), Policy development. Job related skills: Project
management, Team management, Interpersonal, Budget management,
Computer literacy, Resource planning, Problem solving and Decision-Making,
Legislation and policy, Customer service and Communication (written and
verbal). A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide environmental planning services to rural development and land reform
project planning in line with the Environmental Policy of the Department.
Ensure the coordination of Environmental Impact Assessment projects for all
Provincial Shared Services Centres with relevant Competent Authorities.
Conduct Strategic Environmental Assessments (SEA) for identified
strategically located lands / areas. Conduct Climate Change Risk and
Vulnerability Assessments for relevant Development plans. Ensure capacity
58
building on the implementation of Environmental Policy and related plans.
Provide the coordination of environmental compliance through the
development and implementation of the Departmental Consolidated
Environmental Implementation Management Plan (CEIMP). Oversee the
development and implementation of the Consolidated Environmental
Implementation Plan by coordinating the affairs of the Environmental
Compliance and Implementation Forum (ECIF). Oversee the development of
the annual report on the CEIMP. Provide a two-way streamlining of
environmental and spatial planning processes in line with relevant legislation.
Foster collaboration between State Organs on issues pertaining to Spatial and
Environmental Planning. Develop systems, tools and regulations to ensure a
two-way mainstreaming between Spatial and Environmental Planning. Provide
sound intergovernmental relations and cooperative governance by
coordinating inputs and participation for the environmental sector queries and
structures respectively. Facilitate the development of responses / provide
advice to environmental queries from external stakeholders. Represent,
participate and report on activities of various intergovernmental structures in
the environmental sector. Foster and coordinate the participation of relevant
external stakeholders, especially from the environmental sector on
Departmental initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Ntshabele Tel No: (012) 312 8035
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to P47@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African and Coloured Females and
Persons with disabilities.
POST 45/68 : DIRECTOR: SPATIAL PLANNING AND LAND USE MANAGEMENT
SERVICES REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/48
Directorate: Spatial Planning and Land Use Management Services
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Western Cape (Cape Town)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree in Town and Regional Planning / Urban
and Regional Planning / Geographical Information Science (GISc) (NQF Level
7) and a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS). Registration
with South African Council for Planners (SACPLAN) as a Profession Planner
or with South African Geomatics Council as a Professional Geomatics
Professional: GISc. Minimum of 5 years’ experience at a middle / senior
managerial level in a Town and Regional Planning or GISc environment. Job
related knowledge: An understanding of the Public Service environment,
Thorough knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and
related Treasury Regulations, Understanding of the South African economy
with respect to industrial development, growth, equity and empowerment.
Sound understanding of the interconnectedness of Government policies and
strategies. Job related skills: Strong strategic planning and leadership,
Analytical, innovative, problem-solving and interpersonal, Human resource
management, Skilled negotiator and self-confident decision maker, Good
report writing, Excellent financial management, A high level of computer
literacy, Ability to communicate effectively at all levels. A valid driver’s license
and willingness to travel both locally and internationally.
DUTIES : Provide spatial planning, land use management and environmental services in
liaison with the national office. Monitor compliance with the provisions of
Spatial Planning and Land Use Management Act (SPLUMA). Enforce
compliance with SPLUMA. Oversee Spatial Planning and Land Use
Management Interventions to ensure compliance. Ensure compliance with the
National Environmental Management Act. Provide spatial planning information
services in liaison with the national office. Enable provincial integrated spatial
information management systems. Provide Geographic Information Science
(GISc) technical support to municipalities. Facilitate the utilisation of GISc
technical tools to aid spatial planning. Provide support to the implementation
of Spatial Planning and Land Use Management Act 16 of 2013 (SPLUMA).
Support municipalities in the utilisation of SPLUMA guidelines, toolsets,
systems and procedures. Support municipalities in setting up functional Land
59
Use Regulators. Provide technical support in the development of Provincial
Legislation, Land Use Schemes and Spatial Development Frameworks and
related Plans. Provide technical support to agriculture, rural development and
land reform programmes. Provide Spatial Analysis services, Provide GISc and
Mapping services. Provide GISc remote sensing and mobile application
services. Provide development planning support. Provide Intergovernmental
support and co-ordination. Coordinate Intergovernmental relations amongst
relevant stakeholders. Coordinate provincial Spatial Planning and Land Use
Management Services. Coordinate adhoc engagements as required. Support
spatial integration of plans and programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Matsila Tel No: (012) 312 8013
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 5th
Floor, 14 Long Street, Cape Town, 8000 or by email to P48@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African and Coloured Females and
Persons with disabilities.
POST 45/69 : DIRECTOR: CADASTRAL SPATIAL INFORMATION REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2025/50
Chief Directorate: Cadastral Spatial Information
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and an Undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in Geomatics /
Surveying qualifications as recognised by the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA) and a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS).
Registered as a Geomatics Technologist or Geomatics Technician with the
South African Geomatics Council (SAGC). Minimum of 5 years’ experience at
a middle / senior managerial level in cadastral survey environment. Job related
knowledge: Cadastral survey, Technical System, Cadastral spatial information,
Performance management and monitoring, Government systems and
structures, Government decision making processes, Programme setting
process, Understanding of the management information and formal reporting
system, Dealing with misconduct, Internal control and risk management,
Project management principles and tools, The political landscape of South
Africa. Job related skills: Project management, Team management,
Interpersonal, Budget forecasting, Computer literacy, Resource planning,
Problem solving and decision-making, Time management, Business and
Communication (verbal and written). The ability to work efficiently and
effectively at all times. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage accurate cadastral electronic repository. Manage cadastral spatial
data quality. Manage creation and publishing of metadata for all cadastral
spatial data for which Surveyor-General are custodians. Manage cadastral
information provisioning. Manage supply of national dataset on request of the
cadastral spatial information on request. Manage the availability of scanned
images on the Chief Surveyor General (CSG) website. Manage the availability
of spatial data on the SCG website. Render research and mapping services to
departmental components on request. Develop and maintain Cadastral
Information System. Manage the development and implementation of a
centralised web-based CIS solution. Manage cadastral information data
quality. Undertake projects in accordance with project plans as approved,
demonstrating the contribution of officials and component involved. Provide
and coordinate effective Information Technology support to the Branch
National Geomatics Management Services (NGMS). Manage maintenance
and support of Cadastral Information Legacy System. Manage maintenance of
CSG web application. Manage and attend to programmatically and other
problems reported by staff members. Represent NGMS by co-ordinating
requests, compiling reports, communicating office and Cadastral Spatial
Information needs and attending all relevant meetings / workshops. Manage
research on technical and programming related issues. Manage Office of the
Chief Information Officer services in accordance with the signed Service Level
Agreement. Participate and contribute to national, regional and international
professional bodies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M. Kekana Tel No: (012) 312 8344
60
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to P50@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African and Coloured Females and
Persons with disabilities.
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/70 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AUDITS REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2025/52 (X3 POSTS)
Directorate: Information Technology Audit
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Auditing / Information Technology (NQF
Level 6). Minimum of 3 years’ experience in Information Technology Auditing
at Assistant Director level. Job related knowledge: Project management best
practice, The Standard of the Institute of Internal Auditors, Risk based Internal
Audit methodologies and procedures and software. Job related skills:
Communication (verbal and written), Interviewing, Analytical and problem-
solving ability, Staff and interpersonal, Project management, Computer,
Business process and analysis, Risk and control assessment. Work under
pressure and meet deadlines. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Participate in the compilation of the Information Technology Audit Directorate’s
strategic and operational plans in line with the Chief Directorate’s quality
standards, methodologies, policies, and procedures on an annual basis.
Participate in the compilation of the Information Technology Audit Directorate’s
operational plan by April each year. Compile the Information Technology Audit
Directorate’s operational and process risk registers by April each year.
Implement the Information Technology Audit Directorate’s operational plan and
risk register action plans allocated to this position on a continuous basis and
report progress to the Director: Information Technology Audit monthly.
Participate in the compilation of the Information Technology Audit Directorate’s
portion of the Strategic 3 year-Rolling and Annual Internal Audit Plans April
each year. Execute / manage the planning of the specialised annual audit plan
projects according to the deliverables and timelines defined on the approved
audit projects planning memoranda. Execute / manage the compilation on the
electronic audit software of the planning phase deliverables of the Information
Technology Audit Directorate’s specialised projects allocated to this position,
in line with the Chief Directorate’s quality standards, methodologies, policies
and procedures on a continuous basis and report to the Director: Information
Technology Audit on a weekly basis. Execute / manage the execution of the
specialised annual audit plan projects according to the deliverables and
timelines defined on the approved audit projects planning memoranda.
Execute / manage the compilation on the electronic audit software of the
execution phase deliverables of the Information Technology Audit Directorate’s
specialised projects allocated to this position, in line with the Chief Directorate’s
quality standards, methodologies, policies and procedures on a continuous
basis and report to the Director: Information Technology Audit on a weekly
basis. Execute / manage the reporting of the specialised annual audit plan
projects according to the deliverables and timelines defined on the approved
audit projects planning memoranda. Execute / manage the compilation on the
electronic audit software of the reporting phase deliverables of the Information
Technology Audit Directorate’s specialised projects allocated to this position,
in line with the Chief Directorate’s quality standards, methodologies, policies
and procedures on a continuous basis and report to the Director: Information
Technology Audit on a weekly basis. Execute / manage the closure of the
specialised annual audit plan projects according to the deliverables and
timelines defined on the approved audit projects planning memoranda and
Follow-up on implementation of management action plans on Internal Audit
reports of specialised annual and previous audit plan projects. Execute /
manage the compilation on the electronic audit software of the closure phase
deliverables of the Information Technology Audit Directorate’s specialised
projects allocated to this position, in line with the Chief Directorate’s quality
standards, methodologies, policies and procedures on a continuous basis and
61
report to the Director: Information Technology Audit on a weekly basis.
Evaluate the line management’s status of implementation of action plans of the
Information Technology Audit Directorate’s specialised internal audit reports
allocated to this position and perform the adequacy assessment of
management action plans implemented on a quarterly basis. Manage the
information Technology Directorate’s resources allocated to this position.
Manage human, logistical, and financial resources allocated to this position on
an on-going basis in line with Departmental prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M. Rammutla Tel No: (012) 312 9840
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to P52@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian
and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 45/71 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FORENSIC INVESTIGATIONS REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2025/53 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Forensic Investigations
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Forensic Investigations / Law / Auditing /
Forensic Accounting / Criminal Justice or related equivalent qualification (NQF
Level 6). Minimum of 3 years’ credible and applicable experience at Assistant
Director or equivalent level in Forensic Investigations. Job related knowledge:
Project management best practice, The Association of Certified Fraud
Examiners (ACFE) Professional Standards, Forensic Investigations
methodologies and procedures. Job related skills: Communication (written and
verbal), Interviewing, Analytical and problem-solving ability, Interpersonal,
Project management, Computer and Investigations. A valid driver’s license and
must be willing to travel extensively.
DUTIES : Participate in the compilation of the Forensic Investigations Directorate’s
strategic and operational plans. Participate in the compilation of the Forensic
Investigations Directorate’s operational plan by April each year. Compile the
Forensic Investigations Directorate’s operational and process risk registers by
April each year. Implement the Forensic Investigations Directorate’s
operational plan and risk register action plans allocated to this position on a
continuous basis and report progress to the Director: Forensic Investigations
monthly. Participate in the compilation of the Forensic Investigations
Directorate’s annual internal case management registers by April each year.
Manage the planning of the annual case management register projects
allocated to this position according to the deliverables and timelines defined on
the approved investigation projects plans. Manage the compilation on the
electronic audit software of the planning phase deliverables of the Forensic
Investigations Directorate’s projects allocated to this position, in line with the
Chief Directorate’s quality standards, methodologies, policies and procedures
on a continuous basis and report progress to the Director: Forensic
Investigations on a weekly basis. Manage Investigations of the annual case
management register projects allocated to this position according to the
deliverables and timelines defined on the approved investigation projects
plans. Manage the compilation on the electronic audit software of the
investigation phase deliverables of the Forensic Investigations Directorate’s
projects allocated to this position, in line with the Chief Directorate’s quality
standards, methodologies, policies and procedures on a continuous basis and
report progress to the Director: Forensic Investigations on a weekly basis.
Manage the reporting of the annual case management register projects
allocated to this position according to the deliverables and timelines defined on
the approved investigation projects plans memoranda. Manage the compilation
on the electronic audit software of the reporting phase deliverables of the
Forensic Investigations Directorate’s projects allocated to this position, in line
with the Chief Directorate’s quality standards, methodologies, policies and
procedures on a continuous basis and report progress to the Director: Forensic
Investigations on a weekly basis. Manage the closure of the annual case
management register projects according to the deliverables and timelines
defined on the approved investigation projects plans and follow-up on
62
implementation by line management of recommendations of Forensic
Investigation’s reports of the annual and previous case management register
projects. Manage the compilation on the electronic audit software of the closure
phase deliverables of the Forensic Investigations Directorate’s projects
allocated to this position, in line with the Chief Directorate’s quality standards,
methodologies, policies and procedures on a continuous basis and report to
the Director: Forensic Investigations on a weekly basis. Analyse the line
management’s status of implementation of recommendations of the Forensic
Investigations Directorate’s reports allocated to this position and clarify the
statuses with line managers on a quarterly basis. Manage the Forensic
Investigations Sub-directorate’s resources allocated to this position. Manage
human, logistical and financial resources allocated to this position on an on-
going basis in line with Departmental prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M. Rammutla Tel No: (012) 312 9840
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to P53@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Africans, Coloured
and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 45/72 : PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/59
Directorate: Geo-Spatial Information and Professional Support
SALARY : R761 157 per annum, (The salary will be determined in accordance with the
OSD).
CENTRE : Western Cape (Mowbray)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a four-year Bachelor of Science or Bachelor’s Degree in Survey
/ Geomatics. Compulsory registration with South African Geomatics Council
(SAGC) as Professional Surveyor on appointment and Compulsory registration
with South African Geomatics Council as Professional Land Surveyor to
perform cadastral surveys. Minimum of 3 years post qualification survey
experience required. Job related knowledge: Programme and project
management, Survey design and analysis knowledge, Research and
development, Computer-aided survey applications, Legal compliance,
Technical report writing, Creating high performance culture, Networking and
Professional judgement. Job related skills: Decision making, Team leadership,
Analytical, Creativity, Self–management, Financial management, Customer
focus and responsiveness, Communication (verbal and written). Computer
literacy, Planning and organising, Conflict management, Problem solving and
analysis, People management, Change management and Innovation. A valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : Plan and perform surveys to solve practical survey problems (challenges) to
improve efficiency and enhance safety. Investigate applications on new and
existing technologies. Plan and perform surveys of a complex nature. Develop
cost effective solutions and approve surveys according to prescribed
requirements / standards. Promote safety in line with statutory and regulatory
requirements. Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard drawings and
procedures to incorporate new technology. Provide professional advisory and
support services. Develop tender specifications. Provide human capital
development services. Ensure training and development of Candidate
Professional Surveyors. To promote skills / knowledge transfer and adherence
to sound survey principles and code of practice. Supervise the survey work and
processes. Administer performance management and development. Render
office administration and budget planning. Manage resources, prepare and
consolidate inputs for the facilitation of resource utilisation. Ensure adherence
to regulations and procedures for procurement and personnel administration.
Monitor and control expenditure. Report on expenditure and service delivery.
Conduct research and development. Provide continuous professional
development to keep up with new technologies and procedures. Research /
literature studies on survey technology to improve expertise. Liaise with
relevant bodies / councils on survey-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Parker Tel No: (021) 658 4301
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 14
Long Street, 1st floor, Cape Town, 8001 or by email to P59@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African and Indian Males and Coloured and Indian Females and
Persons with disabilities.
63
POST 45/73 : PROJECT COORDINATOR REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/27
Directorate: Operational Management
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Limpopo (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and Bachelor’s Degree / National Diploma in Agriculture /
Development Studies / Social Science / Law or any related equivalent
qualification. Minimum 3 years’ experience in land reform environment Job
related knowledge: Development management including strategic
management, Research methods and techniques, Community facilitation,
Understand and Interpret Business Plan, Thorough knowledge in land reform
and development-related issues, Knowledge of Restitution of land rights,
Knowledge of Land Reform, Knowledge of rural development, Development
management including strategic management, Understanding and interpret
Business Plan. Job related skills: Project Management, Negotiation, Contract
Management, Leadership, Communication (verbal and written), Ability to draft
terms of reference for service providers, Ability to manage consultants,
Excellent report writing, Initiative, able to take responsibility and meet
deadlines, Computer literacy, Ability to produce report on a word processor,
Ability to facilitate community meetings, Good networking, Ability to draft terms
of reference for service providers Willingness to travel, to spend extended
periods in the field and work irregular hours. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Coordinate the lodgement of land claims. Categorise claims per local
municipality. Engage municipalities on claims to be settled. Validate land
claims. Conduct oral and archival research. Conduct site inspection process
(Mapping). Identify homestead. Partaking in analysis of aerial photograph
reports. Facilitate where there are overlapping land claims. Facilitate
separation of tenants, beneficial of occupation and registered land rights. Verify
lodged claim. Conduct in loco inspection. Produce in loco inspection report.
Assist in closing of commitment register. Coordinate clearance of suspense
account. Manage payment of beneficiaries. Negotiate the settlement of claims.
Conduct option exercise with claimants. Identify claims for historical and
current valuation by the Office of the Valuer General. Escalate historical
valuation for offers. Settle the claims. Conduct verification process. Conduct
analysis of family tree. Sign off completed name verification report. Draft
Section 42d submission.
ENQUIRIES : Mr KE Senosha Tel No: (015) 495 1905
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 61
Biccard Street, Polokwane, 0700 or by email to P27@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and White
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 45/74 : CONTROL SURVEY TECHNICIAN REF NO: 3/ NO: 1/1/1/2025/60
Directorate: Imagery and Topographic Data
SALARY : R551 493 per annum, (The salary will be determined in accordance with the
OSD)
CENTRE : Western Cape (Mowbray)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Surveying or Cartography (NQF Level 6)
or related equivalent qualification. Compulsory registration with South African
Geomatics Council as a Survey Technician / Surveyor. Minimum of 6 years
post qualification technical (surveying / cartography) experience. Job relate
knowledge: The Constitution, Good governance and Batho Pele Principles,
Labour and Employment Legislation, Public Service Regulations, Public
Financial Management Act, Land Survey Act, Special Data Infrastructure Act,
National Geomatics Information (NGI) standards and procedures, Programme
and project management, Survey, legal and operational compliance, Survey
operational communication, Process knowledge and skills, Maintenance,
Mobile equipment operating, Survey design and analysis, Research and
development, Computer-aided survey applications, Creating high performance
culture, Technical consulting, Survey and professional judgement. Job related
skills: Strategic capability and leadership, Problem solving and analysis,
Decision making, Team leadership, Creativity, Financial management,
Customer focus and responsiveness, Communication (verbal and written),
64
Computer, People management, Planning and organising, Conflict
management and Negotiation. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Survey design and analysis effectiveness. Perform final review and approvals
or audits on new survey applications according to set standards and design
principles or theory. Co-ordinate design efforts and integration across
disciplines to ensure seamless integration with current technology. Maintain
survey operational effectiveness. Manage the execution of maintenance
strategy through the provision of appropriate structures, systems and
resources. Set survey maintenance standards, specifications and service
levels according to organisational objectives. Monitor maintenance efficiencies
according to organisational goals to direct or redirect survey services. Provide
financial management service. To ensure the availability and management of
funds to meet the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) objectives
within the survey environment / services. Manage the operational survey
project portfolio for the operation to ensure effective resourcing according to
organisational needs and objectives. Manage the commercial added value of
the discipline-related programmes and projects. Facilitate the compilation of
innovation proposals to ensure validity and adherence to organisational
principles. Allocate, monitor, control expenditure according to budget to ensure
efficient cash flow management. Provide governance service. Allocate, monitor
and control resources. Compiles risk logs (databases) and manages significant
risk according to sound risk management practice and organisational
requirements. Provide technical consulting services for the operation of survey
related matters to minimise possible survey risks. Manages and implement
knowledge sharing initiatives e.g. short-term assignments and secondments
within and across operations, in support of individual development plans,
operational requirements and return on investment. Continuously monitor the
exchange and protection of information between operations and individuals to
ensure effective knowledge management according to departmental
objectives. Render people management services. Direct the development
motivation and utilisation of human resources for the discipline to ensure
competent knowledge base for the continued success of survey services
according to organisational needs and requirements. Manage subordinates’
key performance areas by setting and monitoring performance standards and
taking action to correct deviations to achieve departmental objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Semoli Tel No: (021) 658 4300
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 14
Long Street, 1st floor, Cape Town, 8001 or by email to P60@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Indian and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian Females
and Persons with disabilities.
POST 45/75 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: OPERATIONAL AND COMPLIANCE AUDIT REF
NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/51
Chief Directorate: Internal Audit
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Auditing / Accounting (NQF Level 6) or
relevant related qualification. Minimum of 3 years’ experience in operational
and compliance auditing at supervisory level. Job related knowledge: Project
management best practice, The Standards of the Institute of Internal Auditors,
Risk based internal audit methodologies and procedures and software. Job
related skills: Communication (verbal and written), Interviewing, Analytical and
problem-solving ability, Staff and interpersonal, Project management,
Computer, Business process analysis, Risk and control assessment. Work
under pressure and meet deadlines. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Perform and supervise the planning of the annual audit plan projects according
to the deliverables and timelines defined on the approved audit projects
planning memoranda. Perform and supervise the compilation on the electronic
audit software of the planning phase deliverables of the Operational and
Compliance Audit Directorate’s projects allocated to this position, in line with
the Chief Directorate’s quality standards, methodologies, policies and
procedures on a continuous basis and report to the Deputy Director:
Operational and Compliance Audit on a weekly basis. Perform and supervise
the execution of the annual audit plan projects according to the deliverables
and timelines defined on the approved audit projects planning memoranda.
65
Perform and supervise the compilation on the electronic audit software of the
execution phase deliverables of the Operational and Compliance Audit
Directorate’s projects allocated to this position, in line with the Chief
Directorate’s quality standards, methodologies, policies and procedures on a
continuous basis and report to the Deputy Director: Operational and
Compliance Audit on a weekly basis. Perform and supervise the reporting of
the annual audit plan projects according to the deliverables and timelines
defined on the approved audit projects planning memoranda. Perform and
supervise the compilation on the electronic audit software of the reporting
phase deliverables of the Operational and Compliance Audit Directorate’s
projects allocated to this position, in line with the Chief Directorate’s quality
standards, methodologies, policies and procedures on a continuous basis and
report to the Deputy Director: Operational and Compliance Audit on a weekly
basis. Perform and supervise the closure of the annual audit plan projects
according to the deliverables and timelines defined on the approved audit
projects planning memoranda. Perform and supervise the compilation on the
electronic audit software of the closure phase deliverables of the Operational
and Compliance Audit Directorate’s projects allocated to this position, in line
with the Chief Directorate’s quality standards, methodologies, policies and
procedures on a continuous basis and report to the Deputy Director:
Operational and Compliance Audit on a weekly basis. Supervise the
Operational and Compliance Audit Sub-Directorate’s resources allocated to
this position. Supervise human, logistical and financial resources allocated to
this position on an on-going basis in line with the Departmental prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Rammutla Tel No: (012) 312 9840
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to P51@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian
and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 45/76 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FORENSIC INVESTIGATIONS REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2025/54
Directorate: Forensic Investigations
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Forensic Investigation / Law / Auditing /
Forensic Accounting / Criminal Justice (NQF Leve 6) or related equivalent
qualification. Minimum of 3 years applicable experience in Forensic
Investigations. Job related knowledge: Association of Certified Fraud
Examiners (ACFE) Professional Standards, Forensic Investigations
methodologies and procedures. Job related skills: Communication (written and
verbal), Interviewing, Analytical and problem-solving ability, Interpersonal,
Project management, Computer literacy and Investigation. A valid driver's
license and must be willing to travel.
DUTIES : Perform the planning of the annual case management register projects
according to the deliverables and timelines defined on the approved
investigation projects planning memoranda. Perform and supervise the
compilation on the electronic audit software of the planning phase deliverables
of the Forensic Investigations Directorate's projects methodologies, policies
and procedures on a continuous basis and report progress to the Deputy
Director: Forensic Investigations on a weekly basis. Perform and supervise the
investigation of the annual case management register projects according to the
deliverables and timelines defined on the approved investigation projects
planning memoranda. Perform and supervise the compilation on the electronic
audit software of the investigation phase deliverables of the Forensic
Investigations Directorate's projects in line with the quality standards,
methodologies, policies and procedures on continuous basis and report
progress to the Deputy Director: Forensic Investigations on a weekly basis.
Perform and supervise the reporting of the annual case management register
projects according to the deliverables and timelines defined on the approved
investigation projects planning memoranda. Perform and supervise the
compilation on the electronic audit software of the reporting phase deliverables
of the Forensic Investigations Directorate's projects allocated in line with the
Chief Directorate's quality standards, methodologies, policies and procedures
66
on continuous basis and report progress to the Deputy Director. Forensic
Investigations on a weekly basis. Perform and supervise the closure of the
annual case management register projects allocated to this position according
to the deliverables and timelines defined on the approved investigation projects
planning memoranda. Perform and supervise the compilation on the electronic
audit software of the closure phase deliverables of the Forensic Investigations
Directorate's projects allocated to this position, in line with the Chief
Directorate' s quality standards, methodologies, policies and procedures on
continuous basis and report progress to the Deputy Director: Forensic
Investigations on a weekly basis.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Rammutla Tel No: (012) 312 9840
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to P54@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured
and Indian Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 45/77 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RESTITUTION POLICY REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/62
Directorate: Restitution Policy
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Policy Development / Law / Development
studies / Economics / Social Sciences or related equivalent qualification (NQF
Level 6). Minimum 3 years’ working experience in the relevant field. Job related
knowledge: Restitution and land related matters, Policy development,
Research methodology, Project management principles. Ability to draw up
business plans and terms of reference. Job related skills: Report writing,
Communication (verbal and written), Interpersonal, Project management,
Computer literacy, Negotiation, Facilitation and Conflict resolution, A valid
driver’s license. Work under pressure and meet deadlines. Use of computer for
prolonged periods.
DUTIES : Monitor Restitution policy compliance. Vet section 42D compliance to specific
settlement model policies as referred by National Quality Assurance Unit
(NQA). Highlight issues on-compliance to NQA for the relevant Regional Land
Claims Commission office’s corrective action. Document areas of recurring
non-compliance for future training interventions and or policy review. Develop
new policies and review existing policies and procedures. Conduct policy
research. Draft new policies. Circulate the draft policy for inputs. Consolidate
and finalise the policy. Review and amend existing policies. Coordinate and
facilitate implementation of policy. Coordinate meetings of sector task teams.
Coordinate and consolidate reports of sector task teams. Monitor progress of
the settlement of sector claims. Monitor implementation of settlement models.
Provide policy induction training and workshops. Develop training plan and
schedule. Identify internal and external facilitators. Coordinate logistical
arrangements. Facilitate and resent induction training or workshops. Compile
induction training or workshop report.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Moyo Tel No: (012) 407 4603
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to P62@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian,
and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 45/78 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LEASE MANAGEMENT REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/64
Directorate: Financial Accounting
Re-advertisement, applicants who applied previously are encouraged to re-
apply
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma or Degree in Accounting / Cost and
Management Accounting / Financial Management / Financial Accounting /
Accounting Sciences / Auditing / Commerce. Minimum of 3 years’ supervisory
experience in an accounting environment with specific experience in debtors
67
and leases debtors’ management. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of Public
Financial Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Policies, Procedures and
Prescripts, Financial systems including Basic Accounting System (BAS) and
Comprehensive Program for Accounting Control (ACCPAC), Budgets and
budgetary procedures, Debtors, lease and revenue management. Job related
skills: Supervisory, Communication (written and verbal), Planning and
organisation, Interpersonal relations, Computer literacy. A valid driver’s
license. Teamwork. Confidentially, fairness, respect and honesty.
DUTIES : Management of lease debtors. Review of reconciled lease register between
Lease Management and Provincial Office’s property management records.
Supervise daily tasks in lease management section. Advise provinces on
collection of outstanding lease receivables. Ensure that all revenue is collected,
and that sufficient proof can be provided. Reconcile Land Administration Web
(Law) Register with Operating Lease Revenue. Review of inputs for Operating
Lease Revenue. Ensure that State Land and Lease System (SLLS) reports is
reconciled, and all new cases are captured on the system. Monitor the monthly
distribution of lease debtor’s statements to Provincial Office’s. Control and
monitor submissions in respect of the write-off of outstanding debt and report
monthly on all writes-offs. Draft and review of policies and Standard Operating
Procedures (SOPs) for lease debts. Manage the recovery of departmental
debtors. Manage the instructions / invoices / credit notes received from other
Directorate in the Department regarding departmental debt. Manage, control
and evaluate the database of debtors who owe the department. Trace debtors
who are in debt to the department for outstanding debt. Put the debtor “in mora”
for 30 days. Verify and check documents, letters and submission informing
debtors of their outstanding departmental debt. Negotiate payment terms and
methods with the debtors. Setup payment plan and negotiate with the debtors.
Make recommendations and decisions in respect of re-payments of
outstanding debt. Monitor, verify and check all submissions pertaining to the
referral of outstanding debtors accounts to the State Attorney for recovery.
Control and monitor the follow up with the State Attorneys on a monthly basis.
Monitor the monthly payment of accounts. Maintaining accurate, up-to-date
debtor’s account information by analysing reports and improving work
procedures and frameworks. Control and monitor submissions in respect of the
write-off of outstanding debt and report monthly on all write-offs. Draft and
review of policies and SOPs for departmental debts. Manage month-end and
year-end processes. Effective month / year end closure on BAS and ACCPAC.
Ensure that all transactions and documentation is reviewed for all transactions
to be processed. Monitoring and correction of suspense (ledger) accounts and
expenditure allocations. Verify the reconstruction of debtors’ accounts.
Reconcile rent land and unallocated receipts account done monthly for
inclusion in compliance certificate. Reconcile the systems with the bank
accounts. Clear all unallocated revenue to be or report provided where not
cleared. Provided documentation for revenue that could not be allocated. File
and receive all relevant proof of payments. Analyses and investigate problems
experience on the Debtor System and report the faults to the System Controller
and the contractors of the debtor system. Analysis on a monthly basis all
financial reports on the different financial system to improve the control and
procedures and management of the reports. Present all departmental and
lease debtors’ records for internal and external audit. Compile monthly
compliance and in year monitoring (IYM) reports for departmental and lease
debts. Compile inputs to the monthly operational report. Provide inputs for
annual / interim financial statements operating lease revenue, accrued
departmental revenue and impairment. Reconcile lease revenue receivable
register as working paper to receivables note. Obtain information for working
paper to be from ACCPAC and BAS. Manage the resources of Division
(Physical, Human and Financial). Monitor and ensure proper utilisation of
equipment and reporting thereof. Ensure that all staff sign performance
agreements. Review, evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal of
employees. Develop and implement personal development plans. Ensure
capacity and development of staff. Manage discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SH Sambo Tel No: (012) 312 8861
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to P64@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured
and Indian Females and Persons with disabilities.
68
POST 45/79 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/17
Chief Directorate: Internal Audit
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Public Administration / Public
Management / Business Administration / Business Management or relevant
equivalent qualification. Minimum of 2 years' experience in administration
environment. Job related knowledge: Public Service Regulations, Financial
procedures, Treasury regulations and Basic Accounting System (BAS). Job
related skills: Computer literacy, Interpersonal, Organising and Planning,
Communication (verbal and written), Analytical, Problem solving, Financial
management and Report writing. A valid driver's license. Work under pressure,
Teamwork and willingness to work extra hours.
DUTIES : Provide financial management services. Facilitate, plan, oversee, drive the
timely and accurate preparation of the annual budget in line with Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations Strategic priorities weekly /
monthly / quarterly. Compile Demand Management Plan (DMP), Medium Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF), adjustment estimates and Estimated
National Expenditure (ENE). Oversee effective, efficient and economical
utilisation of funds. Document and communicate procedures for accessing and
shifting of funds. Coordinate budgeting, audit and financial functions. Verify
Transport and Subsistence (T&S) and sundry and overtime payment.
Administer the procurement of goods and services. Compile, manage and
maintain of the Demand Management Plan. Facilitate Supply Chain
Management (SCM) services. Facilitate monthly, quarterly and annual
reporting on SCM related matters. Control over safekeeping, utilisation and
maintenance of all assets. Ensure proper administration of sourcing and
evaluation of quotations. Capture and authorise of goods / services on LOGIS
system. Handle queries from internal and external clients relating to supply
chain matters. Render general office support services. Supervise, motivate and
develop staff through individual performance agreements. Provide assistance
in the developing / reviewing of operational plan. Compile various submissions
/ memoranda and responses. Attend to queries from Internal Audit. Administer
leave forms / attend to queries. Make travel / conference bookings and
confirmations. Provide secretariat services. Checking draft minutes for
accuracy against recording of notes. Administer asset. Maintain asset register.
Liaise with asset unit during asset verification. Manage outgoing and on-going
assets. Allocate equipment to officials.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M. Rammutla Tel No: (012) 312 9840
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to P17@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian, and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian
and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 45/80 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/18
Directorate: National Spatial Information Framework
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Public Administration / Public
Management / Business Administration / Business Management or relevant
equivalent qualification. Minimum of 2 years' experience in administration
environment. Job related knowledge: Public Service Regulations, Financial
procedures, Treasury regulations and Basic Accounting System (BAS). Job
related skills: Computer literacy, Interpersonal, Organising and Planning,
Communication (verbal and written), Analytical, Problem solving, Financial
management and Report writing. A valid driver's license. Work under pressure,
Teamwork and willingness to work extra hours.
DUTIES : Provide financial management services. Facilitate, plan, oversee, drive the
timely and accurate preparation of the annual budget in line with Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations Strategic priorities weekly /
monthly / quarterly. Compile Demand Management Plan (DMP), Medium Term
69
Expenditure Framework (MTEF), adjustment estimates and Estimated
National Expenditure (ENE). Oversee effective, efficient and economical
utilisation of funds. Document and communicate procedures for accessing and
shifting of funds. Coordinate budgeting, audit and financial functions. Verify
Transport and Subsistence (T&S) and sundry and overtime payment.
Administer the procurement of goods and services. Compile, manage and
maintain of the Demand Management Plan. Facilitate Supply Chain
Management (SCM) services. Facilitate monthly, quarterly and annual
reporting on SCM related matters. Control over safekeeping, utilisation and
maintenance of all assets. Ensure proper administration of sourcing and
evaluation of quotations. Capture and authorise of goods / services on LOGIS
system. Handle queries from internal and external clients relating to supply
chain matters. Render general office support services. Supervise, motivate and
develop staff through individual performance agreements. Provide assistance
in the developing / reviewing of operational plan. Compile various submissions
/ memoranda and responses. Attend to queries from Internal Audit. Administer
leave forms / attend to queries. Make travel / conference bookings and
confirmations. Provide secretariat services. Checking draft minutes for
accuracy against recording of notes. Administer asset. Maintain asset register.
Liaise with asset unit during asset verification. Manage outgoing and on-going
assets. Allocate equipment to officials.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Dlamini Tel No: (012) 312 8001
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to P18@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian, and White Males and African, Coloured,
Indian and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 45/81 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/28
Branch: Spatial Planning and Land Use Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Public Administration / Public
Management / Business Administration / Business Management or relevant
equivalent qualification. Minimum of 2 years' experience in administration
environment. Job related knowledge: Public Service Regulations, Financial
procedures, Treasury regulations and Basic Accounting System (BAS). Job
related skills: Computer literacy, Interpersonal, Organising and Planning,
Communication (verbal and written), Analytical, Problem solving, Financial
management and Report writing. A valid driver's license. Work under pressure,
Teamwork and willingness to work extra hours.
DUTIES : Provide financial management services. Facilitate, plan, oversee, drive the
timely and accurate preparation of the annual budget in line with Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations Strategic priorities weekly /
monthly / quarterly. Compile Demand Management Plan (DMP), Medium Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF), adjustment estimates and Estimated
National Expenditure (ENE). Oversee effective, efficient and economical
utilisation of funds. Document and communicate procedures for accessing and
shifting of funds. Coordinate budgeting, audit and financial functions. Verify
Transport and Subsistence (T&S) and sundry and overtime payment.
Administer the procurement of goods and services. Compile, manage and
maintain of the Demand Management Plan. Facilitate Supply Chain
Management (SCM) services. Facilitate monthly, quarterly and annual
reporting on SCM related matters. Control over safekeeping, utilisation and
maintenance of all assets. Ensure proper administration of sourcing and
evaluation of quotations. Capture and authorise of goods / services on LOGIS
system. Handle queries from internal and external clients relating to supply
chain matters. Render general office support services. Supervise, motivate and
develop staff through individual performance agreements. Provide assistance
in the developing / reviewing of operational plan. Compile various submissions
/ memoranda and responses. Attend to queries from Internal Audit. Administer
leave forms / attend to queries. Make travel / conference bookings and
confirmations. Provide secretariat services. Checking draft minutes for
accuracy against recording of notes. Administer asset. Maintain asset register.
70
Liaise with asset unit during asset verification. Manage outgoing and on-going
assets. Allocate equipment to officials.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Dlamini Tel No: (012) 312 8001
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to P28@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian, and White Males and African, Coloured,
Indian and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 45/82 : SENIOR AUDITOR: OPERATIONAL AND COMPLIANCE AUDIT REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2025/63
Chief Directorate: Internal Audit
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Auditing / Accounting (NQF Level 6) or
related equivalent qualification. Minimum of 2 years' experience in Operational
and Compliance Auditing. Job related knowledge: Standards of the Institute of
Internal Auditors, Risk based Internal Audit methodologies and procedures and
software. Job related skills: Communication (verbal and written), Interviewing,
Analytical, Problem solving, Computer literacy, Business process analysis,
Risk and control assessment skills.
DUTIES : Perform the planning of the annual audit plan projects according to the
deliverables and timelines defined on the approved audit projects planning
memoranda. Perform the compilation on the electronic audit software of the
planning phase deliverables of the Operational and Compliance Audit
Directorate's projects allocated to this position, in line with the Chief
Directorate’s quality standards, methodology, policies and procedures on a
continuous basis, and report progress to the Assistant Director: Operational
and Compliance Audit on a weekly basis. Perform the execution of the annual
audit plan projects according to the deliverables and timeline defined on the
approved audit projects planning memoranda. Perform the compilation on the
electronic audit software of the execution phase deliverable’s of the
Operational and Compliance Audit Directorate's projects allocated to this
position, in line with the Chief Directorate's quality standards, methodologies,
policies and procedures on continuous basis, and report progress to the
Assistant Director: Operational and Compliance Audit on a weekly basis.
Perform the defined scope of the reporting of the annual audit plan projects
according to the deliverables and timelines defined on the approved audit
projects planning memoranda. Preform the compilation on the electronic audit
software of the defined scope of the reporting phase deliverable of the
Operational and Compliance Audit Directorate's projects allocated to this
position, in line with the Chief Directorate's quality standards, methodologies,
policies and procedure on continuous basis and report progress to the
Assistant Director: Operational and Compliance Audit on a weekly basis.
Perform the closure of the annual audit plan projects according to the
deliverables and timelines defined on the approved audit projects planning
memoranda. Perform the compilation on the electronic audit software of the
closure phase deliverables of the Operational and Compliance Audit
Directorate's projects allocated to this position, In line with the Chief
Directorate's quality standards, methodologies, policies and procedures on
continuous basis and report progress to the Assistant Director: Operational and
Compliance Audit on a weedy basis.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M. Rammutla Tel No: (012) 312 9840
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to P63@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian, and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian
and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 45/83 : SURVEY TECHNICIAN (GRADE A – C) REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/23
Directorate: Cadastral Information, Maintenance and Supply Services
SALARY : R391 671 – R586 665 per annum, (The salary will be determined in accordance
with the OSD)
CENTRE : North West (Mmabatho)
71
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a minimum National Diploma in Survey or Cartography (NQF
Level 6). Compulsory registration with South African Geomatics Council
(SAGS) as a Survey Technician / Surveyor. Minimum of 3 years post
qualification technical survey experience. Job related Knowledge: Programme
and project management, Survey Design and analysis, Research and
Development, Computer aided survey applications and knowledge of legal
compliance. Job related skills: Technical report writing and Creating high
performance culture, Decision making, Team Leadership, Analytical,
Creativity, Self-management, Financial management, Customer focus and
responsiveness, Communication (verbal and written), Computer literacy,
Planning and organising, Conflict management, Problem solving and analysis,
People management skills and Innovation. A valid driver’s license. Values /
Attributes: Confidentiality, fairness, respect and honesty.
DUTIES : Provide technical survey services and support. Provide technical services in
terms of examination, maintenance, archiving and information supply of survey
documents and submit for evaluation / approval by the relevant authority.
Perform surveys and survey computations. Promote safety in line with statutory
and regulatory requirements. Evaluate plans, existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology, and provide
Geographic Information System (GIS), mapping and Information supply
services. Perform administrative and related functions. Provide inputs into the
budgeting process as required, Compile and submit reports as required,
Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical survey operational plan,
Develop, implement and maintain databases, Supervise and control Candidate
Survey Technicians / Officers and related personnel and assets. Conduct
research and development. Render continuous professional development to
keep up with new technologies and procedures. Research / literature studies
on technical survey technology or new survey techniques to improve expertise
and liaise with relevant bodies / councils on survey related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr FM Motimone Tel No: (018) 388 7230
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: Cnr
James Moroka and Sekame Drive, West Gallery, Megacity, Mmabatho, 2735
or by email to P23@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: (Grade A) Coloured, Indians and White Males and African,
Coloured, Indians and White Females and persons with disabilities. (Grade B
and C) Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and White
Females and persons with disabilities.
POST 45/84 : SURVEY TECHNICIAN (GRADE A – C) REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/24
Directorate: Examination Services
SALARY : R391 671 – R586 665 per annum, (The salary will be determined in accordance
with the OSD)
CENTRE : Western Cape (Cape Town)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a minimum National Diploma in Survey or Cartography (NQF
Level 6). Compulsory registration with South African Geomatics Council
(SAGS) as a Survey Technician / Surveyor. Minimum of 3 years post
qualification technical survey experience. Job related Knowledge: Programme
and project management, Survey Design and analysis, Research and
Development, Computer aided survey applications and knowledge of legal
compliance. Job related skills: Technical report writing and Creating high
performance culture, Decision making, Team Leadership, Analytical,
Creativity, Self-management, Financial management, Customer focus and
responsiveness, Communication (verbal and written), Computer literacy,
Planning and organising, Conflict management, Problem solving and analysis,
People management skills and Innovation. A valid driver’s license. Values /
Attributes: Confidentiality, fairness, respect and honesty.
DUTIES : Provide technical survey services and support. Provide technical services in
terms of examination, maintenance, archiving and information supply of survey
documents and submit for evaluation / approval by the relevant authority.
Perform surveys and survey computations. Promote safety in line with statutory
and regulatory requirements. Evaluate plans, existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology, and provide
Geographic Information System (GIS), mapping and Information supply
services. Perform administrative and related functions. Provide inputs into the
72
budgeting process as required, Compile and submit reports as required,
Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical survey operational plan,
Develop, implement and maintain databases. Supervise and control Candidate
Survey Technicians / Officers and related personnel and assets. Conduct
research and development. Render continuous professional development to
keep up with new technologies and procedures. Research / literature studies
on technical survey technology or new survey techniques to improve expertise
and liaise with relevant bodies / councils on survey related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Jones-Phillipson at 071 856 0593
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 14
Long Street, 1st floor, Cape Town, 8001 or by email to P24@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: (Grade A) African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African,
Coloured and Indian Females and persons with disabilities. (Grade B and C)
Indian and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian and White Females and
persons with disabilities.
POST 45/85 : SURVEY TECHNICIAN (GRADE A – C) REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/25
Directorate: Cadastral Information, Maintenance and Supply Services
SALARY : R391 671 – R586 665 per annum, (The salary will be determined in accordance
with the OSD).
CENTRE : Free State (Bloemfontein)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a minimum National Diploma in Survey or Cartography (NQF
Level 6). Compulsory registration with South African Geomatics Council
(SAGS) as a Survey Technician / Surveyor. Minimum of 3 years post
qualification technical survey experience. Job related Knowledge: Programme
and project management, Survey Design and analysis, Research and
Development, Computer aided survey applications and knowledge of legal
compliance. Job related skills: Technical report writing and Creating high
performance culture, Decision making, Team Leadership, Analytical,
Creativity, Self-management, Financial management, Customer focus and
responsiveness, Communication (verbal and written), Computer literacy,
Planning and organising, Conflict management, Problem solving and analysis,
People management skills and Innovation. A valid driver’s license. Values /
Attributes: Confidentiality, fairness, respect and honesty.
DUTIES : Provide technical survey services and support. Provide technical services in
terms of examination, maintenance, archiving and information supply of survey
documents and submit for evaluation / approval by the relevant authority.
Perform surveys and survey computations. Promote safety in line with statutory
and regulatory requirements. Evaluate plans, existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology, and provide
Geographic Information System (GIS), mapping and Information supply
services. Perform administrative and related functions. Provide inputs into the
budgeting process as required, Compile and submit reports as required,
Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical survey operational plan,
Develop, implement and maintain databases. Supervise and control Candidate
Survey Technicians / Officers and related personnel and assets. Conduct
research and development. Render continuous professional development to
keep up with new technologies and procedures. Research / literature studies
on technical survey technology or new survey techniques to improve expertise
and liaise with relevant bodies / councils on survey related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms BG Mtshali Tel No: (051) 448 0955
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 136
Charlotte Maxeke Street, SA Eagle Building, Bloemfontein, 9300 or by email
to P25@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets: Targets: (Grade A) African, Indian and White Males and African,
Coloured and Indian Females and persons with disabilities. (Grade B and C)
Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and White Females
and persons with disabilities.
POST 45/86 : SURVEY TECHNICIAN (GRADE A – C) REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/26
Directorate: Examination Services
SALARY : R391 671 – R586 665 per annum, (The salary will be determined in accordance
with the OSD)
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal (Pietermaritzburg)
73
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a minimum National Diploma in Survey or Cartography (NQF
Level 6). Compulsory registration with South African Geomatics Council
(SAGS) as a Survey Technician / Surveyor. Minimum of 3 years post
qualification technical survey experience. Job related Knowledge: Programme
and project management, Survey Design and analysis, Research and
Development, Computer aided survey applications and knowledge of legal
compliance. Job related skills: Technical report writing and Creating high
performance culture, Decision making, Team Leadership, Analytical,
Creativity, Self-management, Financial management, Customer focus and
responsiveness, Communication (verbal and written), Computer literacy,
Planning and organising, Conflict management, Problem solving and analysis,
People management skills and Innovation. A valid driver’s license. Values /
Attributes: Confidentiality, fairness, respect and honesty.
DUTIES : Provide technical survey services and support. Provide technical services in
terms of examination, maintenance, archiving and information supply of survey
documents and submit for evaluation / approval by the relevant authority.
Perform surveys and survey computations. Promote safety in line with statutory
and regulatory requirements. Evaluate plans, existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology, and provide
Geographic Information System (GIS), mapping and Information supply
services. Perform administrative and related functions. Provide inputs into the
budgeting process as required, Compile and submit reports as required,
Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical survey operational plan,
Develop, implement and maintain databases. Supervise and control Candidate
Survey Technicians / Officers and related personnel and assets. Conduct
research and development. Render continuous professional development to
keep up with new technologies and procedures. Research / literature studies
on technical survey technology or new survey techniques to improve expertise
and liaise with relevant bodies / councils on survey related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Ngubane Tel No: (033) 355 2900
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 1st
Floor, 270 Jabu Ndlovu Street (formerly known as Loop Street),
Pietermaritzburg, 3200or by email to P26@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: (Grade A) African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and
Coloured and White Females and persons with disabilities. (Grade B and C)
African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and White
Females and persons with disabilities.
POST 45/87 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/41
Chief Directorate: Legal Support and Deeds Training
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Office of The Chief Registrar of Deeds: Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a Grade 12 Certificate and a
National Diploma in Secretarial / Office Administration/Management. Minimum
of 3 years' experience in rendering a support service to senior management.
Knowledge on the relevant legislation / policies / prescripts and procedures.
Telephone etiquette. Basic knowledge on financial administration. Sound
organisational skills. Computer literacy (MS Office). Good interpersonal
relations. High level of reliability. Written communication skills. Language
Skills. Ability to communicate well with people at different levels and from
different backgrounds. Ability to do research and analyse documents and
situations. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Good grooming and
presentation. Self-management and motivation.
DUTIES : Provides a secretarial / receptionist support service to the manager. Receives
telephone calls in an environment where, in addition to the calls for the senior
manager, discretion is required to decide to whom the call should be forwarded.
Finalise and resolve relevant enquiries as part of the job’s operational
responsibilities. Performs advanced typing work. Operates and ensures that
office equipment, e.g. Fax machines and photocopiers are in good working
order. Record the engagements of the senior manager. Utilizes discretion to
decide whether to accept/decline or refer to other employees' requests for
meetings, based on the assessed importance and urgency of the matter.
Coordinates with and sensitizes / advises the manager regarding
engagements. Compiles realistic schedules for appointments. Render
administrative support service. Ensures the effective flow of information and
74
documents to and from the office of the manager. Ensures the safe keeping of
all documentation in the office of the manager in line with relevant legislation
and policies. Obtains inputs, collates and compiles reports, e.g.: Progress
reports, Monthly reports and management reports. Scrutinizes routine
submissions / reports and make notes and / or recommendations for the
manager. Respond to enquiries received from internal and external
stakeholders. Drafts documents as required. Does filling of documents for the
manager and the unit where required. Collects, analyses and collates
information requested by the manager. Clarifies instructions and notes on
behalf of the manager. Ensures that travel arrangements are well coordinated.
Prioritizes issues in the office of the manager. Manages the leave register and
telephone accounts for the unit. Handles procurement of standard items like
stationary, refreshments etc. for the activities of the manager and the unit.
Obtains the necessary signatures on documents like procurement advices and
monthly salary reports. Provides support to manager regarding meetings.
Scrutinizes documents to determine actions / information / other documents
required for meetings. Collects and compiles all necessary documents for the
manager to inform him / her on the contents. Records minutes / decisions and
communicates to relevant role-players, follow-up on progress made. Prepares
briefing notes for the manager as required. Coordinates logistical
arrangements for meetings when required. Supports the manager with the
administration for the managers budget. Collects and coordinates all the
documents that relate to the manager's budget. Assists manager in
determining funding requirements for purposes of MTEF submissions. Keeps
records for expenditure commitments, monitors expenditure and alerts
manager of possible over-and under spending. Checks and correlates BAS
reports to ensure that expenditure is allocated correctly. Identifies the need to
move funds between items, consults with the manager and compiles draft
memos for this purpose. Compares the MTEF allocation with the requested
budget and informs the manager of changes. Studies the relevant public
service and departmental prescripts / policies and other documents and ensure
that the application thereof is understood properly. Remains up to date with
regard to the prescripts / policies and procedures applicable to his / her work
terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the manager. Remains
abreast with the procedures and processes that apply in the office of the
manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. H Tshinavhe Tel No: (012) 337 9380
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery to the Office of the Chief
Registrar of Deeds at 20 Steve Biko Rd (formely Beatrix) Street, Arcadia,
Pretoria, 0083. Candidates are also encouraged to apply by using the email
address Advert9@deeds.gov.za before the closing date as no late applications
will be considered.
NOTE : Applications and supporting documents sent to us that are not specified in the
advertisement for the post that you are applying for will not be accepted. Failure
to do this will result in the application being disqualified. EE Targets: Coloured,
Indian and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian, and White Females and
people with disabilities.
POST 45/88 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/42
Chief Directorate: Finance and Corporate Support
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Office of the Chief Registrar of Deeds: Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate National Diploma in Secretarial / Office Administration /
Management. Minimum of 3 years' experience in rendering a support service
to senior management. Knowledge on the relevant legislation / policies /
prescripts and procedures. Telephone etiquette. Basic knowledge on financial
administration. Sound organisational skills. Computer literacy (MS Office).
Good interpersonal relations. High level of reliability. Written communication
skills. Language skills. Ability to communicate well with people at different
levels and from different backgrounds. Ability to do research and analyse
documents and situations. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Good
grooming and presentation. Self-management and motivation.
DUTIES : Provides a secretarial / receptionist support service to the manager. Receives
telephone calls in an environment where, in addition to the calls for the senior
manager, discretion is required to decide to whom the call should be forwarded.
75
Finalise and resolve relevant enquiries as part of the job’s operational
responsibilities. Performs advanced typing work. Operates and ensures that
office equipment, e.g. Fax machines and photocopiers are in good working
order. Record the engagements of the senior manager. Utilizes discretion to
decide whether to accept / decline or refer to other employees' requests for
meetings, based on the assessed importance and urgency of the matter.
Coordinates with and sensitizes / advises the manager regarding
engagements. Compiles realistic schedules for appointments. Render
administrative support service. Ensures the effective flow of information and
documents to and from the office of the manager. Ensures the safe keeping of
all documentation in the office of the manager in line with relevant legislation
and policies. Obtains inputs, collates and compiles reports, e.g.: Progress
reports, Monthly reports and management reports. Scrutinizes routine
submissions / reports and make notes and / or recommendations for the
manager. Respond to enquiries received from internal and external
stakeholders. Drafts documents as required. Does filling of documents for the
manager and the unit where required. Collects, analyses and collates
information requested by the manager. Clarifies instructions and notes on
behalf of the manager. Ensures that travel arrangements are well coordinated.
Prioritizes issues in the office of the manager. Manages the leave register and
telephone accounts for the unit. Handles procurement of standard items like
stationary, refreshments etc. for the activities of the manager and the unit.
Obtains the necessary signatures on documents like procurement advices and
monthly salary reports. Provides support to manager regarding meetings.
Scrutinizes documents to determine actions / information / other documents
required for meetings. Collects and compiles all necessary documents for the
manager to inform him / her on the contents. Records minutes / decisions and
communicates to relevant role-players, follow-up on progress made. Prepares
briefing notes for the manager as required. Coordinates logistical
arrangements for meetings when required. Supports the manager with the
administration for the managers budget. Collects and coordinates all the
documents that relate to the manager's budget. Assists manager in
determining funding requirements for purposes of MTEF submissions. Keeps
records for expenditure commitments, monitors expenditure and alerts
manager of possible over-and under spending. Checks and correlates BAS
reports to ensure that expenditure is allocated correctly. Identifies the need to
move funds between items, consults with the manager and compiles draft
memos for this purpose. Compares the MTEF allocation with the requested
budget and informs the manager of changes. Studies the relevant public
service and departmental prescripts / policies and other documents and ensure
that the application thereof is understood properly. Remains up to date with
regard to the prescripts / policies and procedures applicable to his / her work
terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the manager. Remains
abreast with the procedures and processes that apply in the office of the
manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. AM Strydom Tel No: (012) 337 9380
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery to the Office of the Chief
Registrar of Deeds at 20 Steve Biko Rd (formely Beatrix) Street, Arcadia,
Pretoria, 0083 Candidates are also encouraged to apply by using the email
address Advert8@deeds.gov.za before the closing date as no late applications
will be considered.
NOTE : Applications and supporting documents sent to us that are not specified in the
advertisement for the post that you are applying for will not be accepted. Failure
to do this will result in the application being disqualified. EE Targets: African,
Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and White Females
and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 45/89 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/43
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Northern Cape Deeds Registry: Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Secretarial / Office Administration /
Management. Minimum of 3 years' experience in rendering a support service
to senior management. Knowledge on the relevant legislation / policies /
prescripts and procedures. Telephone etiquette. Basic knowledge on financial
administration. Sound organisational skills. Computer literacy (MS Office).
76
Good interpersonal relations. High level of reliability. Written communication
skills. Language skills. Ability to communicate well with people at different
levels and from different backgrounds. Ability to do research and analyse
documents and situations. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Good
grooming and presentation. Self-management and motivation.
DUTIES : Provides a secretarial / receptionist support service to the manager. Receives
telephone calls in an environment where, in addition to the calls for the senior
manager, discretion is required to decide to whom the call should be forwarded.
Finalise and resolve relevant enquiries as part of the job’s operational
responsibilities. Performs advanced typing work. Operates and ensures that
office equipment, e.g. Fax machines and photocopiers are in good working
order. Record the engagements of the senior manager. Utilizes discretion to
decide whether to accept / decline or refer to other employees' requests for
meetings, based on the assessed importance and urgency of the matter.
Coordinates with and sensitizes / advises the manager regarding
engagements. Compiles realistic schedules for appointments. Render
administrative support service. Ensures the effective flow of information and
documents to and from the office of the manager. Ensures the safe keeping of
all documentation in the office of the manager in line with relevant legislation
and policies. Obtains inputs, collates and compiles reports, e.g.: Progress
reports, Monthly reports and management reports. Scrutinizes routine
submissions / reports and make notes and / or recommendations for the
manager. Respond to enquiries received from internal and external
stakeholders. Drafts documents as required. Does filling of documents for the
manager and the unit where required. Collects, analyses and collates
information requested by the manager. Clarifies instructions and notes on
behalf of the manager. Ensures that travel arrangements are well coordinated.
Prioritizes issues in the office of the manager. Manages the leave register and
telephone accounts for the unit. Handles procurement of standard items like
stationary, refreshments etc. for the activities of the manager and the unit.
Obtains the necessary signatures on documents like procurement advices and
monthly salary reports. Provides support to manager regarding meetings.
Scrutinizes documents to determine actions/information / other documents
required for meetings. Collects and compiles all necessary documents for the
manager to inform him / her on the contents. Records minutes / decisions and
communicates to relevant role-players, follow-up on progress made. Prepares
briefing notes for the manager as required. Coordinates logistical
arrangements for meetings when required. Supports the manager with the
administration for the managers budget. Collects and coordinates all the
documents that relate to the manager's budget. Assists manager in
determining funding requirements for purposes of MTEF submissions. Keeps
records for expenditure commitments, monitors expenditure and alerts
manager of possible over-and under spending. Checks and correlates BAS
reports to ensure that expenditure is allocated correctly. Identifies the need to
move funds between items, consults with the manager and compiles draft
memos for this purpose. Compares the MTEF allocation with the requested
budget and informs the manager of changes. Studies the relevant public
service and departmental prescripts / policies and other documents and ensure
that the application thereof is understood properly. Remains up to date with
regard to the prescripts / policies and procedures applicable to his / her work
terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the manager. Remains
abreast with the procedures and processes that apply in the office of the
manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. V Mbizeni Tel No: (053) 832 7228
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by or by hand delivered during office hours to:
Office of the Registrar of Deeds: Kimberley at Conner Stead and Knight
Streets, 10th Floor New Public Building, Kimberley 8301. Candidates are also
encouraged to apply by using the email address: Advert10@deeds.gov.za
before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
NOTE : Applications and supporting documents sent to us that are not specified in the
advertisement for the post that you are applying for will not be accepted. Failure
to do this will result in the application being disqualified. EE Targets: Coloured,
Indian and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian and White Females and
Persons with Disabilities.
77
POST 45/90 : REGISTRY CLERK (SUPERVISOR) REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/55
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Office of The Chief Registrar of Deeds: Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate or equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years experience required.
Knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data,
and operate computer. Working knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of storage and
retrieval procedures in terms of the working environment. Understanding of the
work in registry. Planning and organization. Computer literacy. Language.
Good verbal and written communication skills. Interpersonal relations.
Flexibility. Teamwork.
DUTIES : Supervise and provide registry counter services. Attend to clients. Handle
telephonic and other enquiries received. Receive and register hand delivered
mail / files. Supervise the handling of incoming and outgoing correspondence.
Supervise the reception and receive all mail. Supervise and sort, register and
dispatch mail and Distribute notices on Registry. Supervise and render an
effective filling and record management service. Opening and close files
according to record classification system. Filing / storage, tracing (electronically
/ manually) and retrieval of documents and files. Complete index cards for all
files. Supervise the operation and operate office machines in relation to the
registry function. Open and maintain franking machine register. Frank post,
record money and update register on daily basis. Undertake spot checks on
post to ensure no private post is included. Open and maintain remittance
register. Record all valuable articles as prescribed in the remittance register.
Hand delivers and signs over remittances to finance. Send wrong remittances
back to sender via registered post and record reference number in register.
Keep daily record of number of letters franked. Supervise the processing and
process documents for archiving and / disposal. Electronic scanning of files.
Sort and package files for archives and distribution. Compile list of documents
to be archived and submit to the supervisor. Keep records for archived
documents. Supervise human resources / staff. Allocate and ensure quality of
work, personnel development, assess staff performance and apply discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. A Strydom or Ms P Matsemela Tel No: (012) 337 9380
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered during office hours to Agriculture Place,
Office of the Chief Registrar of Deeds at 20 Steve Biko Rd (formely Beatrix)
Street, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0083 or by email to Advert15@deeds.gov.za before
the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
NOTE : Applications and supporting documents sent to us that are not specified in the
advertisement for the post that you are applying for will not be accepted. Failure
to do this will result in the application being disqualified. EE Targets: Coloured
and Indian Males and Coloured, Indian and White Females and Persons with
Disabilities.
POST 45/91 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/58
Chief Directorate: Internal Audit
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and National Diploma in Secretarial / Office Administration /
Management or relevant equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years’
experience in rendering a support service to senior management. Job related
knowledge: Relevant legislation / policies / prescripts and procedures,
Telephone etiquette, Basic knowledge on financial administration. Job related
skills: Sound organisational, Computer literacy (Microsoft Office), Good
interpersonal relations, High level of reliability. Communication (verbal and
written), Language, Ability to communicate well with people at different levels
and from different backgrounds, Ability to do research and analyse documents
and situations, Ability to act with tact and discretion, Good grooming and
presentation, Self-management and motivation. Willingness to work extended
hours. Classified Secrets Security Clearance.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial / receptionist support service to the manager. Receives
telephone calls in an environment where, in addition to the calls for the senior
manager, discretion is required to decide to whom the call should be forwarded.
In the process the job incumbent should finalise some enquiries. Performs
78
advanced typing work. Operates and ensures that office equipment, e.g. Fax
machine and photocopies are in good working order. Record the engagements
of the senior manager. Utilises discretion to decide whether to accept / decline
or refer to other employees’ requests for meetings, based on the assessed
importance and urgency of the matter. Coordinates with and sensitises /
advises the manager regarding engagements. Compiles realistic schedules for
appointments. Render administrative support service. Ensures the effective
flow of information and documents to and from the office of the manager.
Ensures the safe keeping of all documentation in the office of the manager in
line with relevant legislation and policies. Obtains inputs, collates and compiles
reports, e.g.: Progress reports, Monthly reports and management reports.
Scrutinises routine submissions / reports and make notes and / or
recommendations for the manager. Respond to enquiries received from
internal and external stakeholders. Drafts documents as required. Does filling
of documents for the manager and the unit where required. Collects, analyses
and collates information requested by the manager. Clarifies instructions and
notes on behalf of the manager. Ensures that travel arrangements are well
coordinated. Prioritises issues in the office of the manager. Manages the leave
register and telephone accounts for the unit. Handles procurement of standard
items like stationary, refreshments etc. for the activities of the manager and the
unit. Obtains the necessary signatures on documents like procurement advice
and monthly salary reports. Provides support to manager regarding meetings.
Scrutinises documents to determine actions / information / other documents
required for meetings. Collects and compiles all necessary documents for the
manager to inform him / her on the contents. Records minutes / decisions and
communicates to relevant role-players, follow-up on progress made. Prepares
briefing notes for the manager as required. Coordinates logistical
arrangements for meetings when required. Supports the manager with the
administration for the manager’s budget. Collects and coordinates all the
documents that relate to the manager’s budget. Assists manager in
determining funding requirements for purposes of Medium-Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF) submissions. Keeps records for expenditure
commitments, monitors expenditure and alerts manager of possible over and
under spending. Checks and correlates Basic Accounting System (BAS)
reports to ensure that expenditure is allocated correctly. Identifies the need to
move funds between items, consults with the manager and compiles draft
memos for this purpose. Compares the MTEF allocation with the requested
budget and informs the manager of changes. Studies the relevant public
service and departmental prescripts / policies and other documents and ensure
that the application thereof is understood properly. Remains up to date with
regard to the prescripts / policies and procedures applicable to his / her work
terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the manager. Remains
abreast with the procedures and processes that apply in the office of the
manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Rammutla Tel No: (012) 312 9840
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to P58@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian
and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 45/92 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/19
Directorate: Corporate Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Northern Cape (Kimberley)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate or relevant equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years' experience
working in a Human Resource environment. Job related knowledge:
Knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data
and operate a computer, Working knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service, Knowledge of storage and
retrieval procedures in terms of the working environment, Understanding of the
work in registry. Job related skills: Planning and organisation, Computer
literacy, Good communication (verbal and written), Interpersonal relations,
Flexibility and Teamwork.
79
DUTIES : Supervise and undertake more complex implementation and maintenance of
human resource administration practices. Human Resource Provisioning
(recruitment and selection, appointments, transfer, verification of qualifications,
secretariat functions at interviews, absorptions, probationary periods etc.).
Implement conditions of service and service benefits (leave, housing, medical,
injury on duty, long service recognition, overtime, relocation, pension,
allowances etc.). Termination of services. Recommend (approve) transactions
on Personnel and Salary Administration system (PERSAL) according to
delegations, (final authorisations should happen on a higher level preferable at
Assistant Director or higher level). Performance management. Prepare reports
on human resource administration issues and statistics. Handle human
resource administration enquiries. Manage enquiries from internal and external
clients. Supervise human resources / staff. Allocate and ensure quality of work.
Personnel development. Apply discipline. Assess staff performance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. T Oliphant Tel No: (053) 830 4056
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to:
Magistrate Court Building, 6th floor, Knight Street, Corner of Stead Street,
Kimberley, 8300 or by email to P19@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African and White Males and Coloured, Indian and White Females
and Persons with disabilities.
POST 45/93 : SENIOR TELECOM OPERATOR REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/49
SALARY : R269 499 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Deeds Registry: Qonce
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate. Minimum of One (1) years relevant working experience within
switchboard environment. Knowledge of MS Package. Telephone etiquette.
Computer literacy. Customer care. Good Communication Skills. Interpersonal
Skills. Switchboard Operation skills. Ability to communicate well with people at
different levels and different backgrounds. Ability to learn the department’s
services delivery components. Ability to take initiatives. Ability to work
independently. Ability to organise work. Ability to prioritise work.
DUTIES : Render telephone services. Keep and maintain incoming and outgoing calls
register of the component. Screen and forward calls. Receive telephone
messages. Record telephone messages. Develop and maintain a database of
contact numbers for all officials. Provide information to clients and address all
general enquiries. Render customer services. Ensure that customers are
referred promptly and correctly. Ensure that customers are attended to at all
times. Supply basic information to customers regarding the department’s
services when required. Manage switchboard service. Operate switchboard by
answering incoming and outgoing calls at all times. Keep database of other
important contact numbers on an on-going basis. Report fault on the telephone
system and report to supervisor and service provider when needed. Identify
and inspect default and defective equipment. Utilise the Telephone
Management System to monitor telephone cost on an ongoing basis. Ensure
that switchboard and all telephone lines are in working condition at all times.
Administer telephone accounts. Complete telephone register and submit to
supervisor. Reconcile private telephone or fax with register and submit to
supervisor. Implement barring and other facilities. Update internal telephone
directory when required. Distribute internal telephone directory to internal users
when required. Print telephone cost report for each extension monthly. Allocate
and monitor pin codes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms VC Bomela and Mr P Sabasaba Tel No: (043) 642 2741
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during working hours to 113
Alexander Road, Qonce, 5600 Eastern Cape or by email
Advert11@deeds.gov.za before the closing date as no late applications will be
considered.
NOTE : Applications and supporting documents sent to us that are not specified in the
advertisement for the post that you are applying for will not be accepted. Failure
to do this will result in the application being disqualified. EE Targets: African,
Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Indian and White Females and
Persons with Disabilities.
POST 45/94 : REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/56
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
80
CENTRE : Office of The Chief Registrar of Deeds: Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate or relevant equivalent qualification. No experience required.
Knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data,
and operate computer. Working knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of storage and
retrieval procedures in terms of the working environment. Understanding of the
work in registry. Planning and organization. Computer literacy. Language.
Good verbal and written communication skills. Interpersonal relations.
Flexibility. Teamwork.
DUTIES : Manage operations to achieve planned outcomes. Provide registry counter
services. Attend to clients. Handle telephonic and other enquiries received.
Receive and register hand delivered mail/files. Handle incoming and outgoing
correspondence. Receive all mails, sort, register and dispatch mail. Distribute
notices on registry issues. Render an effective filling and record management
service. Opening and close files according to record classification system.
Filing/storage, tracing (electronically / manually) and retrieval of documents
and files. Complete index cards for all files. Operate office machines in relation
to the registry function. Open and maintain franking machine register. Frank
post, record money and update register on daily basis. Undertake spot checks
on post to ensure no private post is included. Lock posts in postback for
messengers to delivery to Post Office. Open and maintain remittance register.
Record all valuable articles as prescribed in the remittance register. Hand
delivers and signs over remittances to finance. Send wrong remittances back
to sender via registered post and record reference number in register. Keep
daily record of number of letters franked. Process documents for archiving and/
disposal. Electronic scanning of files. Sort and package files for archives and
distribution. Compile list of documents to be archived and submit to the
supervisor. Keep records for archived documents.
ENQUIRIES : Mr H Tshinavhe or PM Matsemela Tel No: (012) 337 9380
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered during office hours to Agriculture Place,
Office of the Chief Registrar of Deeds at 20 Steve Biko Rd (formely Beatrix)
Street, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0083 or by email to Advert16@deeds.gov.za before
the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
NOTE : Applications and supporting documents sent to us that are not specified in the
advertisement for the post that you are applying for will not be accepted. Failure
to do this will result in the application being disqualified. EE Targets: Coloured,
Indian and White Males and Indian and White Females and Persons with
Disabilities.
POST 45/95 : FINANCE CLERK REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/57
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Office of the Chief Registrar of Deeds: Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate. No experience required. Basic knowledge of financial functions,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collate
financial statistics. Basic knowledge and insight of the Public Service Financial
Legislations Procedures and Treasury Regulations (PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR,
PPPFA, FINANCIAL Manual). Knowledge of basic financial operating systems
(PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS etc). Planning and organise skills. Computer literacy
skills. Communication skills (verbal and written). Basic numeracy skills.
Confidentiality, fairness and honesty.
DUTIES : Render financial accounting transactions. Receive invoices. Check invoices for
correctness, verification and approval (internal control). Process invoices (e.g.
capture payments). Filing of all documents. Collection of cash. Perform salary
administration support services. Receive salary advices. Process advices (e.g.
check advices for correctness, capture salaries, bonuses, salary adjustments,
capture all deductions etc). File all documents. Perform bookkeeping support
services. Capture all financial transactions. Clear suspense accounts. Record
debtors and creditors. Process electronic banking transactions. Render a
budget support service. Collect information from budget holders. Compare
expenditure against budget. Identify variances. Capture, allocate virements on
budgets. Distribute documents with regard to the budget. File all documents.
Receive and capture cash payments.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Matsemela or HS Tshinavhe Tel No: (012) 337 9380
81
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered during office hours to Agriculture Place,
Office of the Chief Registrar of Deeds at 20 Steve Biko Rd (formely Beatrix)
Street, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0083 or by email to Advert13@deeds.gov.za before
the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
NOTE : Applications and supporting documents sent to us that are not specified in the
advertisement for the post that you are applying for will not be accepted. Failure
to do this will result in the application being disqualified. EE Targets: Coloured,
Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and White Females and Persons
with Disabilities.
POST 45/96 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/61 (X2 POSTS)
Division: Human Resource and Records Management Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Office of The Chief Registrar of Deeds: Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate or relevant equivalent qualification. No experience required.
Knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data,
and operate computer. Working knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of storage and
retrieval procedures in terms of the working environment. Understanding of the
work in registry. Planning and organisation. Computer literacy. Good verbal
and written communication skills. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility.
Teamwork.
DUTIES : Implement human resource administration practices. Recruitment and
Selection (Advertisements, Appointments, Transfer, Verification of
qualifications, Secretariat functions at interviews, Absorptions, Probationary
periods e.g.). Implement conditions of services (Leave, Housing, Medical,
Injury. on Duty, Long Service Recognition, Overtime, Relocation, Pension,
Allowances, PILIR or etc.). Performance Management. Termination of service,
Address human resource administration enquiries. Respond to enquiries from
internal and external clients.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. H Tshinavhe Tel No: (012) 337 9380
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be hand delivered during office hours to Agriculture Place,
Office of the Chief Registrar of Deeds at 20 Steve Biko Rd (formely Beatrix)
Street, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0083 or by email to Advert14@deeds.gov.za before
the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
NOTE : Applications and supporting documents sent to us that are not specified in the
advertisement for the post that you are applying for will not be accepted. Failure
to do this will result in the application being disqualified. EE Targets: Coloured,
Indian and White Males and Indian and White Females and Persons with
Disabilities.
POST 45/97 : REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/20
Directorate: Quality Assurance and Administration
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : North West (Mmabatho)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of registry duties, practices as
well as the ability to capture data and operate a computer. Working knowledge
and understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working
environment. Understanding of the work in registry. Job related skills: Planning
and organisation, Computer literacy, Language and Communication (verbal
and written). Interpersonal relations. Flexibility and work within a team.
DUTIES : Provide registry counter services. Attend to clients. Handle telephonic and
other enquiries received. Receive and register hand delivered mail / files.
Handle incoming and outgoing correspondence. Receive, sort, register and
dispatch all mail. Distribute notices on registry issues. Render an effective filing
and record management service. Opening and close files according to record
classification system. Filing / storage, tracing (electronically / manually) and
retrieval of documents and files. Complete index cards for all files. Operate
office machines in relation to the registry function. Open and maintain Franking
machine register. Frank post, record money and update register on a daily
basis. Undertake spot checks on post to ensure no private post is included.
Lock post in postbag for messengers to deliver to the Post Office. Open and
82
maintain remittance register. Record all valuable articles as prescribed in the
remittance register. Hand delivers and signs over remittances to finance. Send
wrong remittances back to sender via registered post and record reference
number in register. Keep daily record of number of letters franked. Process
documents for archiving and / disposal. Electronic scanning of files. Sort and
package files for archives and distribution. Compile list of documents to be
archived and submit to the supervisor. Keep records for archived documents.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Dipudi Tel No: (018) 388 7138
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: Coner
James Moroka and Sekame Drive, West Gallery, Megacity, Mmabatho, 2735
or by email to P20@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Indian and White
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 45/98 : SECRETARY REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/21
Directorate: Corporate Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape (East London)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate or relevant equivalent qualification. Job related knowledge:
Computer literacy (Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, PowerPoint, etc.) Job
related skills: Good telephone etiquette, Sound organisational skills, Good
people skills, Computer literacy, Ability to communicate well with people at
different levels and from different backgrounds (both written and verbal), Ability
to act with tact and discretion. Good grooming and presentation.
DUTIES : Provide a secretariat / receptionist support service to the Director. Receive
telephonic calls and refers the calls to the correct role players if not meant for
the relevant senior manager. Record appointments and events in the diary.
Types documents for the senior manager and other staff within the unit on a
word process. Operate office equipment e.g. Fax machines and photocopiers.
Provide a clerical support service to the Senior Manager. Liaise with travel
agencies to make travel arrangements. Check arrangements when relevant
documents are received. Arrange meetings and events for the senior manager
and the staff in the unit. Identifies venues, invite role players, organise
refreshments and sets up schedules for meeting and events. Process the travel
and subsistence claims for the unit. Process all invoices that emanate from the
activities of the work of the senior manager. Records basic minutes of meetings
of the senior manager where required. Draft routine correspondence and
reports. Do filling of documents for the senior manager and the unit where
necessary. Administer matters like leave registers and telephonic accounts.
Receive, records and distributes all incoming and outgoing documents. Handle
the procurement of standard items like stationary, refreshments etc. Collects
all relevant documents to enable the Director to prepare for meetings. Remains
up to date with regard to prescripts / policies and procedures applicable to her
/ his work environment to ensure efficient and effective support to the senior
manager. Study the relevant public service and the departmental prescripts /
policies and other documents to ensure that the application thereof is
understood properly. Remain abreast with the procedures and process that
apply in the office of the senior manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A van Vuuren Tel No: (043) 701 8127 or Ms A Kili Tel No: (043) 701 8186
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: Coner
James Moroka and Sekame Drive, West Gallery, Megacity, Mmabatho, 2735
or by email to P20@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and White
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 45/99 : MESSENGER REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/22
Directorate: District Office
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape: (Sarah Baartman / Nelson Mandela Bay)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 10
Certificate. Job related skills: Computer literacy, Sound organisational skills,
Good people skills, Basic communication (verbal and written), Client
orientation and customer focus.
83
DUTIES : Perform messenger functions. Sort and arrange correspondences in the
registry. Collect, distribute and circulate correspondences (mail, parcels,
documents and files). Records and control correspondences register. Sort
mail, files, documents and parcels. Ensure that items to collect are sealed and
addressed. Collect mail, files documents and parcels to addressor. Deliver
mail, files, documents and parcels to addresses. Ensure that recipients sign on
the delivery book / register. Record contents and physical addresses in the
delivery book / register. Perform general office assistant tasks. Make copies,
fax and shred documents.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A van Vuuren Tel No: (043) 701 8127 or Ms A Kili Tel No: (043) 701 8186
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: Ocean
Terrace, Coner Moore and Coutts Street, Block H, Quigney, East London, 5201
or by email to P22@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured,
Indian and White Females and Persons with disabilities.
84
ANNEXURE L
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY
The NPA is an equal opportunity employer. People with disabilities will be given preference and are
encouraged to apply. In the filling of vacancies, the objectives of Section 195(1)(i) of the Constitution of
the Republic of South Africa,1996, and in particular the Employment Equity Act,1998 (Act 55 of 1998) and
the NPA Employment Equity Strategy 2022-2026, will take highest preference in selection of suitable
candidates.
APPLICATIONS : All applications must be submitted to the relevant Recruitment Response E
mails stated below.
CLOSING DATE : 23 December 2025
NOTE : Applicants must apply by submitting applications on the most recent Z83 form
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA web site link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ and a comprehensive CV Only (with
detailed experience information). Failure to do so will result in your application
being disqualified. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on or before the
day of the interview following communication from Human Resources. Foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by SAQA
(only when shortlisted). It is the applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign
qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such evaluation (only
when shortlisted). All applications must reach the NPA on/or before the closing
date. No late applications will be accepted/processed. Documents should not
be password protected, and ZIP files will be blocked. The NPA cannot be held
responsible for server delays. All applications must reach the NPA on/or before
the closing date. No late applications will be accepted/processed. The
applicant’s attention is drawn to the fact that the NPA uses an Electronic
Response Handling System in terms of e-mailed applications. Please do not
contact the NPA directly after you have e-mailed your applications to enquire
if your application(s) have been received. If you have not received an
acknowledgement of receipt within one week after the closing date, then you
can contact the NPA. The NPA reserves the right not to fill any particular
position. If you do not hear from us within (6) six months from the closing date
of the advert, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Successful
candidates will be subjected to a security clearance of at least confidential.
Appointment to this position will be provisional, pending the issue of security
clearance. Fingerprints will be taken on the day of the interview. The social
media accounts of shortlisted applicants may be accessed as part of the
verification process. A valid driver’s license will be a requirement where
applicable. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments which are, a practical exercise and an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Applicants are advised that from 1 January 2021 a new
application form for employment (Z83) is in use. The new application for
employment form can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. From 1
January 2021 should an application be received using the incorrect (old)
application for employment (Z83), it will not be considered. NB! Applicants who
are successful must please note that the NPA is not in a position to pay
resettlement costs
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/100 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/597
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R1 195 110 – R1 859 814 per annum (LP-9), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Port – Elizabeth (East London)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Extensive
prosecutorial or litigation experience with regard to common law offences such
as fraud, theft, forgery and uttering, commercial crimes and related matters.
Proficiency in prosecuting, guiding investigations in complex or more difficult
matters, including commercial matters, drafting charge sheets, including
indictments and court documents, dealing with representations. Knowledge of
85
asset forfeiture law will be an added advantage. Well-developed skills in legal
research and legal drafting. Strong interpersonal and communication skills.
General computer proficiency and knowledge of programs in MS Office. Good
interpersonal, analytical, organization and communication skills.
DUTIES : Study case dockets, decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Deal with any representations. Conduct prosecution of serious,
complex and organized commercial crime and corruption matters. Prepare
cases for court including the acquisition of additional evidence and drafting
charge sheets, indictments and other court documents. Present the state’s
case in court, including examination and cross-examination of witnesses and
addressing the court on conviction and sentence. Manage court and case flow
management independently. Study and deal with appeals and reviews. Advise
the police on the investigation of serious, complex and organized commercial
crime cases and corruption matters. Be able to guide and supervise junior
advocates. Promote partner integration, community involvement and customer
satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Nosiseko Mabaleka Tel No: (012) 842 1465
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025597@npa.gov.za
POST 45/101 : STATE ADVOCATE
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R932 904 - R 1 539 321 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Port Elizabeth (Gqeberha) Ref No: Recruit 2025/598
Port Elizabeth (East – London) Ref No: Recruit 2025/599 (X2 Posts) (1 Re-
advert)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA
Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’ post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Well-developed skills in legal research and
legal drafting. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Proficiency
in prosecution, competency in guiding investigations, drafting charge sheets,
indictments and court documents and dealing with representations. Extensive
prosecutorial or litigation experience with regard to common law offences such
as fraud, theft, forgery and uttering, commercial crimes and related matters.
Knowledge of asset forfeiture law will be an added advantage. Good
interpersonal, analytical, organisational and communication skills. Ability to act
independently or with minimum supervision. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
Represent the State in all courts. Prepare a case for court, including the
acquisition of additional evidence, lead and cross examine witnesses, address
the court on inter alia, conviction and sentence. Study and deal with appeals
and reviews, attend to representations, prepare opinions and heads of
arguments. Conduct prosecution of serious, complex and organised
commercial crime and corruption matters. Appear in court in motion
applications pertaining to criminal matters and in general conduct prosecution
on behalf of the state. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the
code of conduct policy and directives of the NPA. Promote partner integration,
community involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners
in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Nosiseko Mabaleka Tel No: (012) 842 1465
APPLICATIONS : Port Elizabeth (Gqeberha) e mail: Recruit2025598@npa.gov.za
Port Elizabeth (East – London) e mail: Recruit2025599@npa.gov.za
POST 45/102 : REGIONAL COURT CONTROL PROSECUTOR
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 032 906 - R1 675 743 per annum (Level SU-3), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : CPP: Modimolle Ref No: Recruit 2025/600
CPP: Bloemfontein (Phuthaditjhaba) Ref No: Recruit 2025/601
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least six (6) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Good management skills. Must have the
ability to act independently or within minimum supervision. Proficiency in
86
prosecuting, guiding investigation and giving instructions in complex or more
difficult common law and statutory offences in Regional and District Court. Draft
complex charge sheets and complex court documents. Good management
skills. Must manage, give guidance and train prosecutors.
DUTIES : Manage, train and give guidance to and train prosecutors. Study case dockets,
decide on the institution of and conduct criminal proceedings. Maintenance
matters and inquest of a general and more advanced nature in the Regional
and District Court. Prepare cases for court and draft charge sheets and other
proceedings for court. Present and assist prosecutors to present the State’s
case in court, to lead witnesses, cross examine and address the court on inter
alia, conviction and sentence, and in general to conduct prosecutions on behalf
of the State. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the code of
conduct, policy and directives of the NPA. Assist the Senior Public Prosecutor
with the performance assessment of staff. Perform general administrative
duties of the office. Promote partner integration, community involvement and
customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Modimolle Thuba Thubakgale Tel No: (015) 045 0285
CPP: Bloemfontein (Phuthaditjhaba) Lemmer Ludwick Tel No: (015) 410 6001
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Modimolle e mail: Recruit2025600@npa.gov.za
CPP: Bloemfontein (Phuthaditjhaba) e mail: Recruit2025601@npa.gov.za
POST 45/103 : REGIONAL COURT PROSECUTOR
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R630 630 - R 1 450 323 per annum (Level LP-5 to LP-6), (Total cost package),
(Excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: Thohoyandou (Malamulele) Ref No: Recruit 2025/602
CPP: Thohoyandou (Sibasa) Ref No: Recruit 2025/603
CPP: Thohoyandou (Makhado) Ref No: Recruit 2025/604
CPP: Modimolle Ref No: Recruit 2025/605 (X2 Posts) (Re-advert)
CPP: Bloemfontein Ref No: Recruit 2025/606 (X2 Posts)
CPP: Modimolle (Lephalale) Ref No: Recruit 2025/614
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least four (4) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. The incumbent must have the ability to act
independently or with minimum supervision. Proficiency in prosecuting.
Experience in guiding investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory
offences in regional court. Good interpersonal skills. Good analytical skills.
Good presentation skills. Good project management skills.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets and other documents and represent the
State in all courts. Lead witnesses, cross-examine and address the court on
inter alia, conviction and sentence and in general to conduct prosecutions on
behalf of the state. Perform general administrative duties of the office. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system. Perform all duties
related thereto in accordance with the Code of Conduct, Policy, and Directives
of the National Prosecuting Authority.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Thohoyandou (Malamulele); CPP: Thohoyandou (Sibasa); CPP:
Thohoyandou (Makhado); CPP: Modimolle and CPP: Modimolle (Lephalale)
Thuba Thubakgale Tel No: (015) 045 0285
CPP: Bloemfontein Lemmer Ludwick – 051 410 6001
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Thohoyandou (Malamulele) e-mail: Recruit2025602@npa.gov.za
CPP: Thohoyandou (Sibasa) e-mail: Recruit2025603@npa.gov.za
CPP: Thohoyandou (Makhado) e-mail: Recruit2025604@npa.gov.za
CPP: Modimolle e-mail: Recruit2025605@npa.gov.za
CPP: Bloemfontein e-mail: Recruit2025606@npa.gov.za
CPP: Modimolle (Lephalale) e-mail: Recruit2025614@npa.gov.za
POST 45/104 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: RECRUIT
2025/607
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: HRM & D - Labour Relations
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10), (Excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
87
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B-degree (NQF Level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level
6) in Labour Relations or equivalent. (Studying towards LLB Degree will be an
added advantage). Three (3) years’ experience in Labour Relations.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Knowledge of the employment relations
legislative and regulatory framework. Experience in appearing in conciliations,
mediations, and arbitration proceedings. Knowledge and experience in the
handling of complaints, disciplinary hearings, and grievances. Dispute
resolution skills. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Represent the NPA in disciplinary hearings, conciliations, mediations, and
arbitration proceedings. Facilitate NPA representations and provide support to
the counsel representing the NPA in external disputes. Facilitate the resolution
of grievances and conduct necessary investigations for such resolutions.
Facilitate disciplinary proceedings and conduct necessary investigations.
Proactively implement mechanisms that minimize disputes and create sound
employment relations. Participate in collective bargaining and facilitate the
implementation of collective agreements. Prepare the necessary documents
and provide opinions on the management and resolution of labour matters.
Ensure compliance with grievances and disciplinary policies. Research and
advice the NPA on the relevant legislative framework.
ENQUIRIES : Ronnie Pather - 012 845 6186
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025607@npa.gov.za
POST 45/105 : BUSINESS ANALYST REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/608
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Information Systems Management
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10), (Excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B -degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level
6) in IT or equivalent qualification. Minimum five (5) years’ experience as
Business Analyst within the IT industry. Certification in Business Analysis.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Certification in Project Management or
Business Analysis. Project management skills. Understanding of SDLC.
Proficiency in MS Office suite and process mapping tools (Visio), project
management (MS Projects). Research, presentation, and facilitation. Strategic
planning skills. Knowledge management. Service delivery and innovation
skills. Agile Business Analysis certification will be an advantage. Valid driver’s
licence.
DUTIES : Determine operational objectives by studying business functions; gathering
information; evaluating output requirements and formats. Review a variety of
areas including core operations and corporate services. Document process
maps, construct workflow charts and diagrams by studying system capabilities
and writing specifications. Improve systems by studying current practices and
designing modifications. Perform daily, weekly and monthly reviews and
analyses of current processes using operational metrics and reports.
Recommend controls by identifying problems and writing improved
procedures. Monitor project progress by tracking activity, resolving problems
and publishing progress reports for recommending actions. Conduct insightful,
ad hoc analyses to investigate ongoing or one-time operational issues.
Conduct and coordinate research to support strategic and business planning
within the various units and programs of the client group. Define project
requirements by identifying project milestones, phases and elements; forming
project team and stakeholder analysis and management; establishing project
budget. Understand and communicate the financial and operational impact of
any changes. Validate resource requirements and develop cost estimate
models. Interpret, evaluate and interrelate research data and develop
integrated business analyses and projections for incorporation into strategic
decision-making. Maintain user confidence and protect operations by keeping
information confidential. Prepare technical reports by collecting, analyzing and
summarizing information and trends. Create informative, actionable and
repeatable reporting that highlights relevant business trends and opportunities
for improvement.
ENQUIRIES : Obert Masango Tel No: (012) 845 7058
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025608@npa.gov.za
88
POST 45/106 : BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE ANALYST REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/609
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Information Systems Management
(Re-advert)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10), (Excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6) in
Computer Science or equivalent. Minimum five (5) years’ relevant experience
in Business Intelligence. Big Data analysis skills, including SQL, statistical
knowledge, data visualization tools (Tableau, Power BI), and cloud computing
platforms (AWS, Azure, GCP). Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Knowledge of
the employment relations legislative and regulatory framework. SQL database
Administration, SQL Server and SQL Query skills. ITIL (Information
Technology International Library) Foundation. Project Management skills.
Research, presentation and facilitation. Strategic planning skills. Knowledge
management. Data Analysis skills. Service delivery and innovation skills.
DUTIES : Create Business Intelligence dashboards, reports and tools. Perform SQL
queries, design, code, test, and aggregate the results to create useful
information. Provide technical documents on database content. Map various
databases used in the organization. Develop, design, and analyze data
architecture and data warehouses. Collaborate with IT department in deploying
software and hardware upgrades to leverage big data use. Create or discover
new data procurement and processing programs. Oversee the deployment of
data to the data warehouse. Review and validate customer data as and when
collected. Review customer files to ensure integrity of data collection and
utilization. Monitor analytics and metrics results. Implement new data analysis
methodologies. Perform data profiling to identify and understand anomalies.
Evaluate and recommend appropriate business intelligence tools and software.
Train users on how to use BI tools, dashboards and reports. Provide technical
and functional support to users on the use of BI tools, dashboards and reports.
ENQUIRIES : Obert Masango Tel No: (012) 845 7058
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025609@npa.gov.za
POST 45/107 : WEB DEVELOPER REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/610
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Information Systems Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), (Excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6) in
Information Technology or equivalent. Minimum three (3) years’ experience in
Web development. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Knowledge of ITIL
(Information Technology International Library) framework. Computer
programming/coding skills in C#. NET, ASP.NET and NET. JavaScript,
HTML5, CSS, XML, jQuery, SQL Server, and Web Services. Research,
presentation and facilitation. Knowledge management. Ability to work under
pressure and adherence to strict deadlines. Service delivery and innovation
skills. MS Office suite, MS Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint, MS Project. Valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Collaborate with business analyst to establish a detailed technical specification
through client discussion. Clarify the actions the application is intended to
perform. Design and develop the application - break down the application
specification into its most accessible components and convert this logic into a
programming language. Work as part of a project team. Test sample datasets
to ensure that the output from the application is correct. Brainstorm potential
remedies to anticipated difficulties. Respond to problems and rectify the
applications as needed. Analyze and improve the applications’ efficacy. Adapt
the application to new needs as needed. Carry out user acceptability testing to
ensure that the application is simple, quick and accurate. Provide extensive
documentation for the applications’ usage by users and support personnel.
Update, repair, change and create current software and general applications.
ENQUIRIES : Obert Masango Tel No: (012) 845 7058
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025610@npa.gov.za
89
POST 45/108 : SYSTEM DEVELOPER: SHAREPOINT REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/611
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Information Systems Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), (Excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6) in
Computer Science or equivalent. Minimum three (3) years’ experience in
Microsoft SharePoint development or Information Technology environment.
Certification on Microsoft SharePoint Development. Demonstrable
competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Knowledge of ITIL (Information Technology International Library)
framework will be an added advantage. Computer programming/coding skills
in C#. NET, ASP.NET and NET. JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, XML, jQuery, SQL
Server, and Web Services. Research, presentation and facilitation. Exposure
to Project Management processes. Ability to work under pressure and
adherence to strict deadlines. Service delivery and innovation skills. MS Office
suite, MS Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint, MS Project. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Collaborate with other software developers., business analysts and IT
professionals to implement Microsoft SharePoint solutions. Configure NPAs’
SharePoint portals/systems to specified requirements. Develop new web
components using XML, NET, SQL, C# and various programming languages
including PowerApps. Extend SharePoint functionality by developing forms,
web parts and application technologies. Review website interface and software
stability. Maintain existing portals and applications. Provide user support.
ENQUIRIES : Obert Masango Tel No: (012) 845 7058
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025611@npa.gov.za
POST 45/109 : SYSTEM DEVELOPER: CRM DYNAMICS REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/612
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Information Systems Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), (Excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6) in
Computer Science or equivalent. Minimum three (3) years’ relevant experience
in Web development. Certification as Microsoft CRM Dynamics Developer.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Knowledge of ITIL (Information Technology
International Library) framework. Computer programming/coding skills in C#.
NET, ASP.NET and NET. JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, XML, jQuery, SQL Server,
and Web Services. Research, presentation and facilitation. Knowledge
management. Ability to work under pressure and adherence to strict deadlines.
Service delivery and innovation skills. MS Office suite, MS Word, Excel,
Outlook, PowerPoint, MS Project. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Collaborate with other software developers, business analysts, Software
architects and IT professionals to implement Microsoft Dynamics CRM
solutions. Develop and maintain a platform roadmap. Integrate existing
systems and services into the CRM architecture. Assist with deployment and
provisioning activities. Design solutions based on business requirements and
end user input. Create user documentation for new functions. Train users on
use of new functions. Advise on use of Microsoft Stack to enable business
capabilities. Maintain current CRM Dynamics module already in production.
Manage all CRM Dynamics environments (development, testing and
production). Manage all user licenses and provisioning according to contract.
ENQUIRIES : Obert Masango Tel No: (012) 845 7058
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025612@npa.gov.za
POST 45/110 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/613
Strategy, Operations & Compliance: Supply Chain Management - Logistics
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), (Excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6) in Public
Management and/or Supply Chain Management or equivalent qualification.
Minimum two (2) years’ experience working in Logistics. Demonstrable
competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Knowledge of PFMA, Logistical Information System (LOGIS),
Treasury Regulations and Preferential Procurement Policy framework Act.
90
Written and Verbal communication skills, Planning, organising skills and
analytical skills. Computer literacy and knowledge of programs in Microsoft
Office (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook).
DUTIES : Administer invoices and orders on LOGIS. Administer Warehouse. Prepare
payment reports. Administer Invoice Tracking System. Provide information on
the preparation of monthly management reports. Supervision of staff. Assess
staff performance.
ENQUIRIES : John Solomon Tel No: (012) 845 6770
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025613@npa.gov.za
91
ANNEXURE M
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons
living with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these
posts in line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to
persons living with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 12 January 2026 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-
Recruitment System which means all applicants must login/register to apply
for positions, we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an
applicant prove that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success
and the National Treasury ICT unit was unable to assist. The applicant’s
profile on the e-Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83, and it
is the responsibility of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed
or their applications will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note.
Certain documentation will still be required to be uploaded on the system such
as copies of all qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric
certificate, ID, etc., however these documents need not be certified at point
of application, however certification will be required prior to attending the
interview. Please note: All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to two
assessments. The first assessment will be a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, while the second assessment
will be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. It should be noted that the National
Treasury does not support the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in any of its
recruitment and selection processes and will disqualify an application if it
picks up the use of AI when completing assessments without acknowledging
the source of information. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public
Service SMS Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government, available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior
to finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS positions. For SMS
positions certain candidates may be required to undergo additional
Psychometric Assessments. All qualifications, criminal and SA citizenship
checks will be conducted on all short-listed candidates and, where applicable,
additional checks will be conducted in line with the new DPSA Directive
effective 01 April 2024. By submitting your application, it also means you
consent to the National Treasury processing your information for Human
Resources Management purposes. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level certificates)
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at your own
expense. Upon appointment, successful candidates will be required to sign a
Performance Agreement within 3 months from date of appointment and for
candidates whose appointment exceeds 12 calendar months will be
appointed on probation for the period of twelve (12) calendar months
excluding leave taken as prescribed by Public Service Regulation 68. The
status of your application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system.
However, if you have not received feedback from the National Treasury within
3 months of the closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful.
NOTE: The National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-
mentioned posts, withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise
a post. All queries must be submitted via email addressed to the Human
Resources Recruitment Support Team on
Recruitment.Enquiries@treasury.gov.za and for all graduate related queries
must be submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Graduate
Recruitment Team on erecruitment@treasury.gov.za. The National Treasury
is compliant with the requirements of POPIA.
92
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 45/111 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: TAX LEGISLATIVE DRAFTING REF NO: S120/2025
Division: Office of The General-Counsel (OGC)
Purpose: Oversee drafting and scrutiny of all tax and other revenue legislation
and its legislative processes, including stakeholder engagement, comments
on draft legislation impacting on all revenue legislation and advising on the
interpretation of revenue legislation
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum of Bachelor’s degree in Law
or LLB (equivalent to NQF level 7). A postgraduate qualification/ LLM in Tax
law and completion of a legislative drafting course will be an added advantage.
A minimum of 5 years’ experience at a senior managerial level obtained in
legislative drafting and other documents and the broader legal environment.
Knowledge and experience in constitutional law and interpretation of statues.
Experience in the Executive’s and Parliament’s processes for considering draft
legislation. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service Senior
Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Oversee Drafting and Scrutiny of Tax and other Revenue Legislation: Oversee
and develop key design measures for the drafting of new and amendment tax
and other revenue legislation and oversee and draft the legislation. Manage
the scrutinization of draft revenue legislation prepared by another institution
(e.g. SARS). Following the stakeholder consultation, oversee the drafting of,
and draft, resultant amendments to draft revenue legislation. Oversee the
editing and document control of legislative documents for sound and clear
revenue legislation. Ensure the facilitation of the translation of draft tax and
other revenue Bills into another official language. Manage Revenue Legislative
Process Engagement: Lead in the stakeholder consultation engagements on
legal aspects. Manage the coordination of drafting inputs from key
stakeholders, e.g. SARS and tax practitioners. Ensure the facilitation of the
scrutiny of draft revenue legislation by the Office of the Chief State Law Adviser
(Department of Justice & Constitutional Development) and liaising with
Parliamentary Legal Advisers. Oversee engagement schedule on drafting co-
ordination within the National Treasury, Executive and Parliament. Lead the
Parliamentary process on tax and other revenue Bills on legal aspects.
Oversee Drafting and Scrutiny of Legal Instruments issued under Tax and
other Revenue Legislation, and Comment on draft Legislation having
implications for Revenue Legislation: Oversee the drafting of, and draft,
regulations, notices and other legal instruments to be issued by the National
Treasury or the Minister of Finance. Oversee the scrutiny of, and scrutinise,
regulations, notices and other legal instruments to be issued by the National
Treasury or the Minister of Finance prepared by other institutions (e.g. SARS).
Ensure the alignment of the editing and document control of legislative
documents for the legal instrument to be issued by the National Treasury or
the Minister of Finance. Co-ordinate and provide inputs on draft legislation,
having implications for tax and other revenue legislation, initiated by other
national departments submitted to the National Treasury for input. Supervise
Interpretation of Tax and other Revenue Legislation: Oversee advice, and
advise, on the interpretation of tax and other revenue legislation to internal and
external stakeholders. Oversee liaison, and liaise, with other units in National
Treasury or another institution that should be consulted on interpretation.
Oversee the facilitation of opinions on interpretation of tax and other revenue
legislation from Office of the Chief State Law Advisers or private legal
practitioners.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
93
OTHER POST
POST 45/112 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PUBLIC PROCUREMENT NORMS AND
STANDARDS REF NO: S083/2025
Division: Office Of Chief Procurement Officer (OCPO)
Purpose: To assist in the research, design and development of a public
procurement regulatory framework to promote uniformity, standardisation,
integrity and transparency in the procurement system for all spheres of
government and provide policy rollout and support on interpretation of policy
prescripts.
SALARY : R1059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or a Bachelors degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Supply
Chain Management or Procurement or Bachelor of Commerce in Law (LLB) or
a Bachelor of Commerce in Economics. A minimum of 4 years’ experience of
which 2 years should be at an Assistant Director level or equivalent obtained
in a supply chain management environment. Knowledge and experience of the
public procurement legislative and regulatory frameworks. Knowledge and
experience in policy development and formulation.
DUTIES : Public Procurement Policy Development: Contribute to the research, design
and development of a public procurement regulatory framework in line with
relevant public procurement prescripts by assisting in: comparative research
on international and domestic best practices. Drafting public procurement
discussion papers, options analyses, and policy proposals; Drafting of
regulations, guidelines, and model tools to give effect to statutory provisions.
Contribute to the development and review of regulations, instructions, and
circulars to operationalise public procurement prescripts by: Translating policy
objectives into practical and legally sound regulatory instruments; Ensuring
alignment with: The Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996, The
Public Procurement Act (when in operation), Public Finance Management Act,
Treasury Regulations, Municipal Finance Management Act, Municipal Supply
Chain Management Regulations, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework
Act, Preferential Procurement Regulations; Relevant Public Procurement
Case Law, Support stakeholder consultation and public participation
processes in policy development by Coordinating consultation workshops,
written submissions, and intergovernmental forums; and Support the
consolidation of stakeholder inputs into policy refinement. Assist in the drafting
of submissions, reports, and recommendations for decision-making to
executive management by Contributing to evidence-based and legally
defensible proposals. Public Procurement Policy rollout and support: Provide
interpretive guidance and policy advice to procuring institutions on the
application of public procurement prescripts by: Preparing advisory
communication and FAQs to address implementation queries; and Ensuring
consistent interpretation across procuring institutions. Facilitate the policy
rollout through induction workshops and stakeholder engagements by:
Assisting in the development of induction materials on new prescripts and
Presenting at workshops and briefing sessions for public procurement officials
and other stakeholders. Public Procurement norms and standards: Contribute
to the development of public procurement specific norms and standards
including: Codes of Conduct for persons involved in procurement (such
members of the Tribunal, bid committee members, officials, bidders);
Differentiated guidelines; Differentiated model procurement policies; Bid
documents considering the different sectors and industries. Public
Procurement Knowledge and Information Management: Monitor and evaluate
the impact of procurement regulatory policy by: Collecting and analysing
feedback from procuring institutions; Engaging with other stakeholders to
solicit information; and Identifying gaps, unintended consequences, or areas
requiring amendment.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME 01 APRIL 2026 – 31 MARCH 2028
PERIOD: 24 MONTHS
APPLICATIONS https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 12 January 2026 at 12:00 pm (midday)
94
NOTE : Purpose: Our 24-month internship programme offers graduates opportunities
to enhance skills and gain valuable work experience to complement their
qualifications. Division: Various Divisions Within The National Treasury
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/113 : ASSET & LIABILITY MANAGEMENT INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Liability Management
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma Marketing Management
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/114 : ASSET & LIABILITY MANAGEMENT INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Financial Operations – Systems Integration
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BSc Computer Science
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/115 : ASSET & LIABILITY MANAGEMENT INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Financial Operations – Accounting Information
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom/Honours Accounting BCom/Honours/Masters Financial Management
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/116 : ASSET & LIABILITY MANAGEMENT INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Public Entities Shareholder Oversight
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom Development Finance BCom Development
Economics/Finance/Accounting
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/117 : ASSET & LIABILITY MANAGEMENT INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: State Owned Entities Oversight – Water, Energy & Telecoms
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom/Honours/Masters Finance BCom/Honours Accounting
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/118 : ASSET & LIABILITY MANAGEMENT INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: State Owned Entities Oversight – Investment Analysis
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Business Science Finance BCom/Honours Accounting
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/119 : ASSET & LIABILITY MANAGEMENT INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Strategy & Risk Management
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom/Honours/Masters Financial Accounting/Financial Risk
Management/Financial Management
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
95
POST 45/120 : BUDGET OFFICE INTERN (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Infrastructure Regulation & Assessment
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom Honours/Masters Econometrics/Economics BCom Honours/Masters
Financial Management/Investment Management Development Finance
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/121 : BUDGET OFFICE INTERN (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Public Finance Statistics
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BSc/Honours Computer Science/Informatics
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/122 : BUDGET OFFICE INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Industrial Development Co-operation
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom Economics BA Development Studies/Public Administration BCom
Information Systems Post Graduate Diploma Business Intelligence BSc Data
Management
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/123 : CORPORATE SERVICES INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Communications – Media & External Communications
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma Media Studies/Communication/Communication Studies specialising
in social media Diploma Journalism
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/124 : CORPORATE SERVICES INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Communications – Publications, Projects & Events
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/BTech Graphic Design Diploma/BTech Visual Communications
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/125 : CORPORATE SERVICES INTERN (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Information & Communications Technology
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/BTech/BSc Information Technology BSc/Honours/Masters Computer
Science
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/126 : CORPORATE SERVICES INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Human Resources Management – Organisation
Development
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Social Work BA Psychology
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/127 : CORPORATE SERVICES INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Human Resources Management – HR Planning, Acquisition
& Operations
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
96
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/BCom Human Resources Management BCom Industrial Psychology
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/128 : CORPORATE SERVICES INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Human Resources Management – Talent Management
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma Human Resources Development Diploma Human Resources
Management
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/129 : CORPORATE SERVICES INTERN (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Human Resources Management – Service Delivery
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/BTech/BCom Human Resources Management Diploma/BTech/BA
Public Management/Public Administration
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/130 : CORPORATE SERVICES INTERN (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Facilities Management
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma Administrative Management Diploma Office Administration
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/131 : ECONOMIC POLICY & INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION INTERN (X1
POST)
Chief Directorate: Modelling & Forecasting
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom Honours/Masters Econometrics BCom Honours/Masters Economics
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/132 : INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS INTERN (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Provincial Budget Analysis
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom/Honours/Masters Accounting/Economics/Financial Management
BSc/Honours/Masters Data Science/Computer Science BSc/Honours/Masters
Mathematics/Statistics
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/133 : INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: MFMA Implementation – Regulatory Oversight
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : LLB /Diploma Paralegal
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/134 : INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS INTERN (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: MFMA Implementation
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom Economics/Information Systems BA Public Management BSc Computer
Science
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
97
POST 45/135 : INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS INTERN (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: MFMA Implementation – LGFMG
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom Accounting BCom Honours Financial Management
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/136 : INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS INTERN (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Local Government Budget Analysis
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom Accounting BSc/Honours/Masters Data
Management/Informatics/Computer Science BCom Honours Financial
Accounting
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/137 : OFFICE OF THE ACCOUNTANT-GENERAL INTERN (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Specialised Audit Services
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom/Honours/Masters Internal Audit BA Forensic Science & Technology
Postgraduate Diploma Forensic Auditing Postgraduate Diploma Forensic
Investigation & Criminal Justice Postgraduate Investigative & Forensic
Accounting
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/138 : OFFICE OF THE ACCOUNTANT-GENERAL INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: MFMA Capacity Building & Training
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom Internal Audit BCom Accounting
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/139 : OFFICE OF THE ACCOUNTANT-GENERAL INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: PFMA – Regulatory Oversight
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Commerce BCom/Finance/Public Finance BCom
Accounting/Economics
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/140 : OFFICE OF THE ACCOUNTANT-GENERAL INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: PFMA – Regulatory Environment
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom Public Finance/Law
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/141 : OFFICE OF THE ACCOUNTANT-GENERAL INTERN (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Accounting Support & Reporting
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/BCom Accounting Diploma/BCom Financial Management
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/142 : OFFICE OF THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Public Procurement
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
98
REQUIREMENTS : BCom Economics/Supply Chain Management/Public Procurement
Diploma/BTech Logistics/Purchasing Management
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/143 : OFFICE OF THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: SCM ICT - Central Supplier Database
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom Honours/Masters Information Systems BSc Honours/Masters Computer
Science
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/144 : OFFICE OF THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: SCM Governance Monitoring & Compliance
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom Supply Chain Management BA Public Management/Public
Administration
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/145 : OFFICE OF THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Office of the CPO
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Public Administration Diploma Public Administration
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/146 : OFFICE OF THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER INTERN (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Strategic Procurement
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/BCom Logistics/Supply Chain Management/Purchasing Management
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/147 : OFFICE OF THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER INTERN (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Transversal Contracting
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BSc/BCom Data Science BCom Accounting/Economics/Supply Chain
Management
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/148 : OFFICE OF THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: SCM ICT – IFMS
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom Information Systems BSc Computer Science
ENQUIRIES : Only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/149 : OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL INTERN ( X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Strategic Projects Monitoring & Evaluation
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BA / Honours / Masters Public Administration / Public Management BA Public
Administration / Public Management
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
99
POST 45/150 : OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Financial Management – Office of the CFO
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom Accounting BCom Financial Management
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/151 : OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Financial Management – Financial Accounting
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom Accounting BCom Financial Management
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/152 : OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Financial Management – Management Accounting
(Budgets)
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom Management Accounting/ Financial Management BCom
Accounting/Financial Accounting
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/153 : OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL INTERN (X1 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Financial Management – Management Accounting (Assets)
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom Accounting BCom Supply Chain Management
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/154 : OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL INTERN (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Supply Chain Management
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom Supply Chain Management BCom Logistics
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/155 : OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL INTERN X2 POSTS
Chief Directorate: Chief Risk Officer
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom Risk Management/Internal Audit/Financial Management/Law Bachelor
of Public Administration
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/156 : OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL INTERN (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Internal Audit – Regularity Audit
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/BCom Internal Audit Diploma/BCom Accounting
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/157 : OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL INTERN ( X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Internal Audit – Performance Audit
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/BCom Internal Audit Diploma/BCom Accounting
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
100
POST 45/158 : OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL INTERN (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Tax Legislative Drafting
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Law/LLB/LLM BA Law
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/159 : OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Legislative Services - Fiscal and Intergovernmental
Relations
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : LLB Masters Law
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/160 : OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Legislative Services - Legislative Drafting
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : LLB
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/161 : OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Legal Services
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : LLB
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/162 : OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Office of the General Counsel
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : LLB
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/163 : PUBLIC FINANCE INTERN (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Economic Services
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom Honours Economics BA Honours Public Policy
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/164 : PUBLIC FINANCE INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Justice & Protection Services
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom Honours/Masters Economics BA Honours/Masters Public Policy
BSocSci Honours/Masters Public Administration
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/165 : PUBLIC FINANCE INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Admin Services - Governance & Administration
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Commerce BSocSci Honours/Masters Public Policy/Public
Administration
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
101
POST 45/166 : PUBLIC FINANCE INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Admin Services - Central Governance Administration
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom/Honours/Masters Economics/Public Finance BSocSci Honours/Masters
Public Policy/Political Science/Public Administration/Sociology
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/167 : PUBLIC FINANCE INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Admin Services - Financial Administration
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom/Honours/Masters Economics BSocSci Honours/Masters Public
Policy/Public Administration
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/168 : PUBLIC FINANCE INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Health & Social Development
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : BCom Honours/Masters Economics BSocSci Honours/Masters Public
Policy/Public Administration
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
POST 45/169 : TAX & FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICY INTERN (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Indirect Taxes
STIPEND : R134 749 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : LLB/LLM specialising in Tax or Environmental Law BCom Taxation/Law
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only erecruitment@treasury.gov.za
102
ANNEXURE N
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given
to Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office (Midrand): Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Director: Human Resources, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand deliver applications to the Office
of the Chief Justice, Human Resource Management, 188, 14th Road,
Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685.
Eastern Cape Provincial Service Centre/Gqeberha: Quoting the relevant
reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the
Chief Justice, Postal Address: Private Bag x 13012, Cambridge 5206, East
London. Applications can also be hand delivered to 59 Western Avenue,
Sanlam Park Building, 2nd Floor, Vincent 5242, East London.
Free State Provincial Service Centre: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief
Justice, Private Bag X20612, Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand deliver applications
to the Free State High Court, Corner President Brand and Fontein Street,
Bloemfontein, 9301.
Gauteng Provincial Service Centre/Johannesburg/Pretoria: Quoting the
relevant reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head,
Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X7, Johannesburg, 2000. Applications
can also be hand delivered to the 12th floor, Cnr Pritchard and Kruis Street,
Johannesburg.
Kwazulu-Natal Provincial Service Centre: Durban/ Pietermaritzburg:
Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X54314, Durban,
4001. Applications can also be hand delivered to 1st Floor Office No 118, CNR
Somtseu8 & Stalwart Simelane Streets, Durban, 4000.
Limpopo Provincial Service Centre: Quoting the relevant reference number,
direct your application to: Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice Service
Centre, Limpopo, Private Bag X9693, Polokwane, 0700. Applications can also
be hand delivered to the High Court of South Africa: Limpopo Division,
Polokwane, 36 Biccard & Bodenstein Street, Polokwane, 0699.
Mpumalanga Provincial Service Centre: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head: Office of the Chief
Justice, Private Bag X 20051, Mbombela 1211. Applications can also be hand
delivered to, Mpumalanga Division of the High Court, Office of the Chief Justice
Provincial Service Centre, 311 Samora Machel Drive, Mbombela 1200
Northern Cape Provincial Service Centre: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief
Justice, Private Bag X5043, Kimberley, 8300 Applications can also be hand
delivered to the High Court, Sol Plaaitjie Drive, Room B107, Kimberley.
North West Provincial Service Centre/Mmabatho: Quoting the relevant
reference number, direct your application to: The OCJ Provincial Head, Office
of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X 2033, Mmabatho, 2735. Applications can
also be hand delivered to 22 Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mmabatho.
Western Cape Provincial Service Centre: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: The provincial Head, Office of the Chief
Justice, Postal Address: Private Bag x 9020, Cape Town, 8000, or hand deliver
applications to the Office of the Chief Justice, Provincial Service centre 30
Queen Victoria Street, cape Town
CLOSING DATE : 22 December 2025
NOTE All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
103
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. All shortlisted candidates
shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method
to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements. Each application form must be fully completed, duly signed and
initialed on both pages by the applicant. The application must indicate the
correct job title, the office where the position is advertised and the reference
number as stated in the advert. Failure by the applicant to fully complete, sign
and initial the application form will lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applications on the old Z83 will unfortunately not
be considered. Should you be in a possession of a foreign qualification, it must
be accompanied by an evaluation 7considered. Suitable candidates will be
subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, financial checks,
qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference checks and employment
verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will
be expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo
a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The Office the Chief
Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided
to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose
of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application
was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal
information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your application
null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the security and
confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment process
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/170 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SECURITY MANAGEMENT REF NO: 2025/353/OCJ
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package. The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a minimum of a three-year National
Diploma in Security and Risk Management/ equivalent qualification at NQF
level 6 with 360 credits as recognised by SAQA., Minimum 5 years’ experience
of which 3 years should be at ASD/Junior Management level in the relevant
field. A valid driver’s License, Grade A Private Security Industry Regulation
Authority (PSIRA) certificate. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-
entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
Skills and Competencies: Security Policy and Procedures, Risk Management
Policy, OHS Act, Knowledge of Vetting Policy, Knowledge of Security
Management Processes, Public service regulations, 2016, Public Service Act,
MISS, PFMA Act, Republic of South Africa Constitution. Financial
management, Presentation skills, Project Management Skills, Planning and
Organising Skills, Analytical and Decision-Making Skills, Problem Solving
Skills, Decision making skills, Strategic and analytical skills, Report writing
skills.
DUTIES : Manage and oversee the effective and efficient use and deployment of
resources, manage event security for the Judiciary and the OCJ, manage
effective close and static security services to the Judiciary, Manage security
assessments, investigations and recommend measures for the Judiciary,
Manage the Sub Directorate.
ENQUIRIES Technical related enquiries, Mr N Naidoo Tel No: (010) 493 2649
HR Related Enquiries: Ms S Tshidino Tel No: (010) 493 8771
104
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to: 2025/353/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals
POST 45/171 : CHIEF REGISTRAR (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R586 956 – R 1 386 972 per annum (MR6). The successful candidates will be
required to sign a performance agreement. Salary will be in accordance with
Occupation Specific Dispensation determination (Resolution 1 of 2008).
Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit a service certificate/s for
determination of their experience.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Johannesburg Ref No: 2025/369/OCJ
Gauteng Division of The High Court: Pretoria Ref No: 2025/370/OCJ
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an LLB Degree or a Four (4) year legal
qualification as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of eight (8) years’
appropriate post qualification legal experience and must be gained as a
Registrar, A valid driver’s license. An LLM Degree will serve as an added
advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements. Skills and competencies: Computer
literacy; Excellent communication skills (verbal and written). Report writing
skills; Numerical Skills; Technical Expertise; Information technology; Attention
to detail; Planning, Organising and Control; Problem solving and decision-
making skills; Customer service; Interpersonal skills; Conflict Management;
Work ethic and motivation; Professional appearance and conduct; Self-
management.
DUTIES : Mentor and advice on the tracking and management of the progression of all
cases filed in court and management of time and events necessary to move
cases from initiation through to disposition and reporting to the Judge
President; Make input on amendments of Court rules and Practice Directives
to improve efficiency at the High Court; Implement directives issued by the
Judge President; Manage implementation of the Departmental strategic
objectives relating to the processing of cases within the Case Flow
Management Framework at the High Court and reporting; Compile training
manuals and provide training to Registrars and support staff. Stakeholder
Management; Human Resources Management; Court and Case-flow
Management/ Quasi-Judicial Functions; Manage Service Level Agreement
Framework and Managing Strategic Court Efficiency Projects and Best
Practices; Information and Case/ Court Documentation Management System;
Safeguard case records in accordance with prescripts; Achieve excellence in
delivering the planned customer service outcomes (i.e. service levels and
standards) for the department and monitoring the unit’s service delivery in
order to achieve the service delivery targets and to ensure the highest level of
customer care and customer satisfaction. Manage PMDS of staff.
ENQUIRIES : HR Enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
Technical Enquiries: Ms R Bramdaw Tel No: (010) 494 8486 Johannesburg;
Ms N Shandu Tel No: (010) 494 6796 Pretoria
APPLICATIONS : Johannesburg: Applications can be sent via email to:
2025/369/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Pretoria: Applications can be sent via email to:
2025/370/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals
POST 45/172 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CONDITIONS OF SERVICES AND
REMUNERATION REF NO: 2025/354/OCJ
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a National Diploma/Degree in Human
Resource Management/ Public Management, Personnel Management / Public
Administration or equivalent qualification at NQF Level 6, A minimum of three
(3) years’ experience in Human Resource Management environment of which
105
1 year should be on supervisory level and Valid driver’s license. Introductory
to PERSAL Certificate. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry
practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
Skills and Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of the Legislation/
Prescript and framework governing the Public Service i.e., Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulation, Labour Relations Act, Employment Equity Act,
Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Skills Development Act, Collective
Agreements, Codes of Remuneration and the Public Finance Management
Act, knowledge of HRM policies, knowledge of leave absence in the Public
Service, GEHS, GEMS, and application of relevant legislative framework such
as Public Service Act, 1994, knowledge of HRM related standards, practices,
processes and procedure, knowledge of Government Employee Pension
Fund, Basic Conditions of employment Act 1997, Batho Pele principle,
knowledge of PERSAL System. Computer utilization, analytical thinking,
Problem solving skills, Decision making skills, Motivational skills, Planning and
analysing skills, Innovative, Leadership, Communication and Management of
human resources.
DUTIES : Ensure the administration of conditions of service and benefits for all
employees: Ensure the verification and implementation of housing allowance
applications received. Facilitate the implementation of the acting allowance
and 37% in lieu of benefits for employees appointed on contract. Ensure the
processing of relocations and resettlements benefits. Ensure compliance on
condition of service and benefits policies and DPSA Directives (PSCBC
Resolutions and Frameworks, systems and processes). Facilitate the
implementation of long service recognition for employees. Facilitate the
implementation of service termination due to resignations, retirements, death
and dismissals on PERSAL. facilitate the update of pension management
database. Ensure compliance of leave management processes: Ensure the
approval of leave transactions on PERSAL. Monitor applications for temporary
and permanent incapacity leave and ill health retirement in terms of PILIR
processes within the department. Create awareness for management and
employees on the implementation of the leave management according to
DPSA guidelines, systems and processes) to ensure consistency within OCJ.
Promote compliance with management policies and DPSA Directives (PSCBC
Resolutions and Frameworks, systems and processes). Provide advice on
leave management matters. Facilitate the implementation of new
appointments, transfers, promotions, movements and probations: Facilitate
the implementation of appointment or transfers of the recommended candidate
after selection process on PERSAL. Ensure all appointment / transfer records,
in line with the Appointment Check List. Facilitate the implementation of salary
structured packages for OSD, MMS and SMS employees. Create awareness
for management and employees on appointment processes to ensure timeous
appointment on PERSAL. Contribute towards the development of conditions
of service and benefits policies in line with legislative frameworks, systems and
processes: Conduct research and benchmark in line with best practices.
Develop and review the conditions of service and benefits policies in line with
Public Service Prescripts and DPSA guidelines. Review all the conditions of
service and benefits templates and SOP for approval. Implement conditions of
service and benefits policies and Facilitate the dissemination of policies on the
OCJ intranet.
ENQUIRIES : Technical related enquiries, Mr P Mokoena Tel No: (010) 493 2537
HR Related Enquiries: Ms S Tshidino Tel No: (010) 493 8771
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to: 2025/354/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 45/173 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FACILITIES MANAGEMENT (X9 POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement
CENTRE : Gauteng Provincial Service Centre: Johannesburg Ref No: 2025/355/OCJ
Mpumalanga Provincial Service Centre: Mbombela Ref No: 2025/356/OCJ
Free Sate Provincial Service Centre: Bloemfontein Ref No: 2025/357/OCJ
Northern Cape Provincial Service Centre Kimberley Ref No: 2025/358/OCJ
Western Cape Provincial Service Centre Cape Town Ref No: 2025/359/OCJ
KwaZulu Natal Provincial Service Centre: Durban Ref No: 2025/360/OCJ
106
Eastern Cape Provincial Service Centre: East London) Ref No: 2025/361/OCJ
North West Provincial Service Centre: Mmabatho Ref No: 2025/362/OCJ
Limpopo Provincial Service Centre, Polokwane Ref No: 2025/363/OCJ
REQUIREMENTS Applicants should be in possession of a minimum of a minimum of three-year
National Diploma / Degree in the Built Environment, Facilities Management,
Facilities Project Management, Property / Real Estate Management at NQF
level 6 with 360 credits as recognised by SAQA. A minimum 3 years’
experience in relevant field. A valid driver’s License. All shortlisted candidates
shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment
method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical
and generic requirements. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant
prescripts, application of MISS and MPSS, Administrative Justice Act,
Knowledge of Promotion of Access of Information Act, Knowledge of Treasury
and PFMA Regulations, Knowledge of Government Immovable Asset
Management Plan (GIAMA), Understanding of Occupational Health and Safety
Act, no. 85 of 1993, Knowledge of managing fleet assets and related
administration; Knowledge of National Archives and Records Services Act and
Regulations, Knowledge of document management and filing systems,
General Built environment including mechanical, electrical Water Services
Act, National Environmental Management Act 107 of 1998 (NEMA),
Horticultural processes and Cleaning Industry, Public Finance Management
Act, (PFMA), Financial management, Presentation skills, Project Management
Skills, Planning and Organising Skills, Analytical and Decision-Making Skills,
Problem Solving Skills, Decision making skills, Strategic and analytical skills,
Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Provide effective facilities and auxiliary services management processes and
systems at service centres, monitor implementation of facilities Contracts and
Services, ensure provision of an efficient maintenance of PSC and Court
facilities, Monitor the provision of Infrastructure services, Supervise and
develop staff.
ENQUIRIES : Technical related enquiries, Mr N Naidoo Tel No: (010) 493 2649
HR Related Enquiries: Ms S Tshidino Tel No: (010) 493 8771
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email on the below-email addresses:
Gauteng: 2025/355OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Mpumalanga: 2025/356/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Free Sate: 2025/357/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Nothern Cape: 2025/358/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Western Cape: 2025/359/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Kwazulu Natal: 2025/360/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Eastern Cape 2025/361CJ@judiciary.org.za
North West: 2025/3362/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Limpopo: 2025/363/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals
POST 45/174 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SECURITY MANAGEMENT (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand, Ref No: 2025/364/OCJ
Mpumalanga Provincial Service Centre: Mbombela Ref No: 2025/365/OCJ
North West Division Provincial Service Centre Mmabatho Ref No:
2025/366/OCJ
REQUIREMENTS Applicants should be in possession of a minimum of a three-year National
Diploma in Security and Risk Management/Policing or equivalent qualification
at NQF level 6 with 360 credits as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of three
(3) years’ experience in the relevant field, A valid driver’s license, Grade A
Private Security Industry Regulation Authority (PSIRA) certificate. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements. Skills and Competencies: Security
Policy and Procedures, Risk Management Policy, OHS Act, Knowledge of
Vetting Policy, Knowledge of Security Management Processes, Public service
regulations, 2016, Public Service Act, MISS, PFMA Act, Computer literacy,
Communication skills, Supervisory skills, Decision-making skills, Planning and
execution skills, Problem solving and analytical skills, Presentation skills,
Research writing skills, Time management skills, Good interpersonal relations,
107
Republic of South Africa Constitution.
DUTIES : Manage contracted security service provider(s) and ensure compliance with
the Service Level Agreement, Conduct security assessments, planning and
investigations and recommend measures for improvement, Ensure
Compliance to Occupational Health and Safety Act, Manage matters related
to integrity management and investigate security breaches., Provide security
advisory to management and maintain security value adding consultancy,
Supervise and develop staff.
ENQUIRIES : Technical related enquiries, Mr N Naidoo, Tel No: (010 493 2649
HR Related Enquiries: Ms S Tshidino Tel No: (010) 493 8771
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email on the below-email addresses:
National Office: 2025/364OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Mpumalanga: 2025/365/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
North West: 2025/366/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
POST 45/175 : OFFICE MANAGER (OFFICE OF THE JUDGE PRESIDENT) REF NO:
2025/367/OCJ
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of High Court, Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a minimum of a three-year National
Diploma/ Bachelor’s Degree in Office Management or relevant equivalent
qualification at NQF Level 6 with 360 credits as recognized by SAQA. A
minimum of 3 years’ relevant experience in an Office Administration
environment. A valid driver’s license. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine
the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements. Skills & Competencies, Job Knowledge of office management
responsibilities, systems and procedures. Excellent Communication skills.
Proficiency in English (verbal and written). Interpretation of law. Legal
writing/drafting/legislative drafting skills. Knowledge of Electronic Information
Resource and online retrieval. Strong Leadership and Management
Capabilities. Ability to work long hours and under pressure. Computer literacy
(MS Word, PowerPoint, Excel and Outlook).
DUTIES : Manage office of the Judge President at the Gauteng Local Division of the High
Court (Johannesburg). Support the Judge President in communication with all
Stakeholders. Management, supervise and develop Judge’s Secretaries and
support staff. Manage logistical arrangements for integrated meetings and
operations. Oversee the Administration and follow up on the Judge President
instructions to ensure prompt execution by relevant branches. Liaise with all
Stakeholders in the Department, Heads of Court, Senior Managers, Judges,
National Office, Legal Professional bodies and other Stakeholders, with regard
to matters emanating from the Office of the Judge President. Maintain a clear
communication channel to both Internal and External Stakeholders with the
office of the Judge President and that of the Deputy Judge President. Prepare
presentations and briefing notes for the Judge President and disseminate the
necessary notices and information to all branch heads, within the Division.
Compile, analyse and report progress on a monthly and quarterly basis,
memoranda regarding all matters related to the Judge President, including but
not limited to the collation of reserved judgements statistics for the Division.
Ensure the appropriate capacitation of the Office of the Judge President, in
relation the handling of the Acting Judge portfolio, including but not limited to
the coordination of their acting Judge appointment forms and certificates,
handing down of their Judgements, the hearing of their applications for leave
to appeal, etc. Ensure the correct applications of Regulations, Resolutions,
Policies or any other Legal source of directive related to the special fields.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms R Bramdaw Tel No: (010) 494 8486
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to: 2025/367/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals.
108
POST 45/176 : TYPIST REF NO: 2025/368/OCJ
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Division of The High Court: Gqeberha
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a minimum of a Grade 12 certificate or
equivalent qualification. A minimum typing speed of 35 wpm. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to pass a typing test. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Word). Good
communication skills (written and verbal). Good interpersonal relations,
planning and organization skills. Good problem-solving skills. Accuracy and
attention to detail. Ability to work under pressure. Good time keeping.
Telephone etiquette. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry
practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Typing of appeals, reviews, reports, minutes, circulars, notice of set downs,
witness statements, taxing master reports, affidavits, memorandums and court
orders. Relief administrative personnel where necessary. Filling, opening files
and making appointments. Dealing with public queries and other administrative
duties.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related: Ms P Nyhiba Tel No: (041) 502 6626
HR Related Enquiries: Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to: 2025/368/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : OCJ will give preference to candidates in line with the departmental
Employment Equity goals
109
ANNEXURE O
OFFICE OF THE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
The Office of the Public Service Commission (OPSC) is an equal opportunity representative employer.
Therefore, the OPSC is intentional in promoting representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Public
Service through filling these positions in line with the approved Employment Equity Plan. All candidates
whose appointment/transfer/promotion will promote representativeness are encouraged to apply.
Preference will be given to Coloureds, Indians, Whites and persons with disabilities. An indication of
representativeness profile by applicants will expedite the processing of applications.
APPLICATIONS : You can apply on www.psc.gov.za under “vacancies”. Forward your
application/s stating the relevant reference number to: The Director-General,
Office of the Public Service Commission, Private Bag X121, Pretoria, 0001 or
hand-deliver at Commission House, Office Park Block B, 536 Francis Baard
Street, Arcadia, Pretoria.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr M Mabuza
CLOSING DATE : 22 December 2025; 16h30
NOTE : Applications must consist of a) A fully completed and signed Z83 application
form which came into effect on 1 January 2021 and can be downloaded at
www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies). b) A recent comprehensive CV with a minimum
of three (3) contactable referees with their telephone numbers and email
addresses. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to bring certified copies
of ID, drivers’ license and qualifications on or before the interviews. Should you
be in possession of a foreign qualification(s), it must be accompanied by an
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA).
The successful candidate will be required to obtain a top-secret clearance
issued by the State Security Agency. The OPSC will verify the qualifications
and conduct reference checking on short-listed candidates. Candidates will be
subjected to Practical and Integrity Assessments to determine their suitability
for the post. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If
you have not been contacted within 3 months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Please
take note that late applications will not be accepted. All shortlisted candidates
including SMS shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. Logistics of which
will be communicated by the Office of the Public Service Commission.
Following the interview and technical exercise, the Selection Committee will
recommend a candidate/s to attend a generic managerial competency
assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directives on the competency-
based assessments). The competency will be testing generic managerial
competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools.
Note (A pre-entry certificate obtained from the National School of Government
(NSG) prior appointment for all SMS appointments is required). Applicants are
advised against the use of the old Z83 application form which was valid until
31 December 2020 because it will render such application/s invalid.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 45/177 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: GOVERNANCE MONITORING REF NO:
CD/GM/12/2025
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), State’s contribution to the
Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible
portion of 30% that may be structured in terms of applicable rules. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance agreement
within three months after assumption of duty.
CENTRE : Public Service Commission House, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate’s profile: The successful candidate must have an appropriate
SAQA recognized Bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification (NQF level 7)
in the field of Public Management, Public Administration, Social Sciences or
Law. A relevant postgraduate qualification will be an added advantage. A
Nyukela certificate for entry into the Senior Management Service (SMS)
obtained from the National School of Government (NSG) and should be
submitted prior to appointment. Five (5) years of experience at a senior
managerial level. Extensive experience in evaluation, development of,
transformation or reform of, advising on public administration policy, practice,
processes, systems, organisation and management. Knowledge and
110
experience in the application of the provisions of the relevant legislation and
regulations that govern the Public Service. Strong research and research
supervision skills. Excellent project management and problem-solving abilities.
Exceptional understanding of the policy environment within which Public
Service delivery takes place. Excellent communication (written and verbal)
skills. Financial Management skills. Good people management skills and the
ability to work with and across teams. Good liaison skills and the ability to
manage relations with different stakeholders. Sufficient computer skills in
Microsoft Office Suite e.g. Excel, Word and PowerPoint. A Valid Driver’s
License (with exception of disabled applicants).
DUTIES : Conduct evaluations of the state of the public service against the principles
governing public administration in section 195 of the Constitution. Produce a
State of the Public Service report. Provide a diagnosis of key systemic issues
affecting the performance of the public service and develop solutions (in the
form of normative statements and guidelines) to key problems hampering the
performance of the public service. Develop and maintain a data warehouse
containing data sets for indicators of the performance of the public service.
Manage the chief directorate and provide support the Commission.
ENQUIRIES : Ms IL Mathenjwa Tel No: (012) 352 1109
POST 45/178 : DIRECTOR: PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION SUPPORT REF NO:
D/PSCS/12/2025
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), State’s contribution to the
Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible
portion of 30% that may be structured in terms of applicable rules. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance agreement
within three months after assumption of duty.
CENTRE : Office Public Service Commission, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate’s profile: The successful candidate must have an appropriate
recognized Bachelor’s Degree/Advance Diploma/ Bachelor of Technology
Degree qualification (NQF level 7) in the field of Public Administration / Public
Management / Social Science / Development Studies / Development
Management / Futures Studies / Governance or related social science fields,
or Bachelor of Laws degree or related. A Nyukela certificate for entry into the
Senior Management Service (SMS) obtained from the National School of
Government (NSG) and should be submitted prior to appointment. Five (5)
years of experience at a middle/ senior managerial level. Knowledge and
experience in rendering executive Support to governance structures, and
executive management. Experience in liaising with Parliament/ Legislature will
be an added advantage, experience in developing research proposals and
instruments in designing and utilizing appropriate data collection strategies and
data collection tools. Good understanding of the PSC Mandate. Excellent
planning, organisational and communication skills, excellent research and
writing skills. Ability to work across all the levels within the PSC and interact at
a Senior level. The successful person should possess strong Strategic
Capability Skills, Analysis and leadership Programme, Appropriate experience
in project management, Strategic understanding and knowledge of the
application of the Constitutional Values and Principles (CVPs) as contained in
Section 195. A firm grasp on matters of service delivery, research, ethics and
integrity; as well as leadership and human resources practices. An
understanding of how current public administration management and
operational processes comply, or do not comply with the CVPs. Good
communication and presentation skills. Financial management skills.
Supervisory and appropriate people management experience. Stakeholder
engagement skills. Proven managerial record. Sufficient computer skills in
Microsoft Office Suite e.g. Excel, Word and PowerPoint. A Valid Driver’s
License. (with exception of disabled applicants).
DUTIES : Coordinate and manage the Public Service Commission governance
structures, including Secretariat services. Oversee and manage administrative
support to the Commission, including logistical services. Provide Parliamentary
liaison and support services. Coordinate international strategic stakeholder
relations. Manage human and financial resources of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr ST Giyose Tel No: (012) 352 1145
111
POST 45/179 : DIRECTOR: CONSULTATIVE EVALUATIONS REF NO: D/CE/12/2025
SALARY : R1 266 7144 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), State’s contribution to the
Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible
portion of 30% that may be structured in terms of applicable rules. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance agreement
within three months after assumption of duty.
CENTRE : Public Service Commission House, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate’s profile: The successful candidate must have an appropriate
recognized Bachelor’s Degree/Advance Diploma (NQF level 7) in the field of
Social Science, Public Management and/or Administration and Monitoring and
Evaluation Five (5) years of experience at a middle/ senior managerial level.
Proficiency in research, monitoring and evaluation, Development of Public
Administrative Practices, Qualitative Data Management, Data Analysis, Project
Planning and Management Experience in conducting service delivery
inspections baseline or situational analysis assessments and/or evaluation will
be an added advantage A Nyukela certificate for entry into the Senior
Management Services (SMS) obtained from the National School of
Government (NSG) and should be submitted prior to appointment Knowledge
and experience in the application of the provisions of the relevant legislation
and regulations that govern the Public Service. Ability to analyze, summarize
and comment on current debates in public administration. Ability to plan and
coordinate activities at executive and operational level. Appropriate experience
in project management and execution of primary research. Strategic
understanding and knowledge of the application of the Constitutional Values
and Principles (CVPs) as contained in Section 195. A firm understanding on
matters of service delivery (models and processes), research (applied),
assessments and evaluation within the Public Service. An understanding of
how current public administration management and operational processes
comply, or do not comply with the CVPs. Good communication, presentation
and writing skills. Financial management skills. Supervisory and appropriate
People Management and Empowerment. Client Orientation and Customer
Focus and Problem solving, analysis and Knowledge Management. Proven
strategic capabilities and leadership, Programme and Project Management
and Conflict Resolution. Sufficient Computer Skills in Microsoft Office Suite e.g.
Excel, Word and PowerPoint presentation. A Valid Driver’s License. (with
exception of disabled applicants).
DUTIES : Manage, coordinate and facilitate Service Delivery Inspections (through
research, assessment and/or evaluation projects) Provide quality assurance
and advisory support for province-based service delivery inspections (and
related projects) as required, including the review of proposals, research tools
and reports. Conduct and manage research studies on the effectiveness of
government support for service delivery to improve its effectiveness Monitor
and report on the implementation of the PSC recommendations and directions
(quarterly and bi-annually) and contribute to Section 196(4)(e) report .Provide
strategic support to the Office and Commission in the execution of the mandate
of the PSC Coordination of Chief Directorate Reporting of Performance
Management Information.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Domingo-Swarts Tel No: (012) 352 1289
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/180 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE BEST PRACTICE REF NO:
DD/HRBP/12/2025
SALARY : R896 436.per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
package includes a basic salary (75%/76% of package), State’s contribution to
the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible
portion of 25% that may be structured in terms of applicable rules. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance agreement
within three months after assumption of duty.
CENTRE : Public Service Commission House, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate’s profile: The successful candidate must have an appropriate
recognized Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced Diploma NQF level 7 majoring in
Human Resource Management/Human Resource Development/Industrial
Psychology. Postgraduate degrees in the above-mentioned qualifications will
112
be an added advantage. 2-3 years’ experience at an Assistant Director or
equivalent level (for people outside government) in Human Resources or
Research and basic project management. Knowledge of Public Service Human
Resource Management Regulatory Frameworks, Public Service Financial
Regulatory Frameworks, subordinate legislations, e.g. National Treasury and
DPSA laws, regulations and directives. Core Management Competencies: data
collection, data analysis, research and project management. Process
Competencies: service delivery innovation, communication, problem solving
and analysis, client orientation and customer focus, knowledge management.
Technical Competencies: qualitative and quantitative research, research report
writing skills, analytical skills, stakeholder engagement skills, presentation
skills, interpersonal skills, communication skills, planning, organizing and
coordinating skills, ability to work under pressure and abnormal hours, ability
to work in a complex environment and time bound. Proficiency in the Microsoft
Office suite, e.g. Excel, Word and PowerPoint. An understanding of the
Constitutional Values and Principles (CVPs) in Section 195 and how these
CVPs contribute towards effective public service delivery. Must possess a valid
driver’s license (with exception to people with disabilities) and be willing to
travel and work extensively both in a team and with minimal supervision.
Females and males are encouraged to apply; preference will be given to
coloured, Indian, and white females. Shortlisted candidates will be assessed
through an oral interview, practical exercise, and integrity assessments.
DUTIES : Research, assess, monitor and evaluate leadership and human resource
management practices to enhance evidence-based policy and practice in the
public service. Coordinate and support the engagement for Public Service
Commission recommendations to promote human resource best practices.
Provide strategic advice and review leadership and human resource
management processes and practices in the public service. Produce research
to produce articles, presentations and/or concept notes, e.g. Pulse, Articles,
Keynote speeches/address for Commissioners and presentations to Portfolio
Committees, MANCO and other stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NA Kelengeshe Tel No: (012) 352-1146
POST 45/181 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PLANNING, MONITORING AND REPORTING REF
NO: DD/PMR/12/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
package includes a basic salary (70%/75% of package), State’s contribution to
the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible
portion of 30%/25% that may be structured in terms of applicable rules. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance agreement
within three months after assumption of duty.
CENTRE : Public Service Commission House, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate’s profile: The successful candidate must have an appropriate
recognized Advanced Diploma/Bachelor’s degree NQF level 7 in Public
Administration/Management/Monitoring and Evaluation/Development studies
and Business Management/Administration as recognised by SAQA. 5 years’
experience in organisational performance monitoring, reporting and planning
and performance auditing. Knowledge and of Treasury Regulations and
Planning and Reporting Guidelines, experience in organisational performance
reporting, performance auditing, written and verbal communication skills,
interpersonal skills, project management and analytical skills. Proficiency in the
Microsoft Office suite, e.g. Excel, Word and PowerPoint. Must possess a valid
driver’s license (with exception to people with disabilities).
DUTIES : Coordinate and organise PSC Strategic Planning Sessions and Operational
Planning Sessions. Develop PSC planning documents for submission to DPME
and tabling in Parliament. Coordinate, verify reported performance information
and manage the compilation of the quarterly and annual reports. Develop
presentations on PSC Planning Documents and Performance Information as
and when required. Organise and render Secretariat services to the
Management Committee Meetings, (MANCO). Ensure compliance with
relevant prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Maya Tel No: (012) 352-1097
113
POST 45/182 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROFESSIONAL ETHICS REF NO:
DD/PE/MP/12/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
package includes a basic salary (70%/75% of package), State’s contribution to
the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible
portion of 30%/25% that may be structured in terms of applicable rules. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance agreement
within three months after assumption of duty.
CENTRE : Public Service Commission: Mpumalanga Provincial Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate’s profile: The successful candidate must have an appropriate
recognized Bachelor’s degree NQF level 7 majoring in Law/Public
Administration/Professional Ethics or equivalent qualification. 3-5 years’
supervisory experience at Assistant Director level, with particular focus on:
Promotion of Professional Ethics, Management of Conflicts of Interest,
Conducting of Investigative Research, Integrity and Anti-Corruption activities.
Knowledge of People management, practical experience in project
management, excellent communication skills, both verbally and in writing,
public speaking and presentation skills. Knowledge of handling public
management, administration, Human Resource Practices, corporate
governance, and financial management. Reasoning skills and the ability to
formulate arguments for and against specific positions in writing. Proficiency in
the Microsoft Office suite, e.g. Excel, Word and PowerPoint. Must possess a
valid driver’s license (with exception to people with disabilities) and willingness
to travel extensively.
DUTIES : Promotion of professional ethics in the province through conducting workshops
and awareness campaigns relating to ethics frameworks and constitutional
values and principles. Facilitate the submission of financial disclosures by all
members of the Senior Management Service in the Province. Scrutinize
financial disclosures to determine potential and/or actual conflicts of interest.
Collate and analyses data on the management of financial misconduct in the
province. Draft reports, submissions, memoranda and letters emanating from
the performance of the key performance areas. Conduct public administration
investigations. Conduct research on professional ethics in the Public Sector.
Perform other relevant tasks as assigned by the Provincial Director from time
to time.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Matlhare Tel No: (013) 755-4070/1
POST 45/183 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS IMPROVEMENT REF NO:
DD/LRI/12/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
package includes a basic salary (70%/75% of package), State’s contribution to
the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible
portion of 30%/25% that may be structured in terms of applicable rules. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance agreement
within three months after assumption of duty.
CENTRE : Public Service Commission House, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A recognized three-year Bachelor’s degree/Diploma (NQF level 7) in Labour
Relations/Labour Law/Law. 3-5 years’ experience in Labour Relations,
grievance resolution, legal interpretation and investigation research at
supervisory/ASD level. Knowledge of handling Public Management,
Administration and Human Resource Practices and Financial Management.
Knowledge of the Public Service Act, Public Service Commission Act, Senior
Management Service Handbook, Performance Management and Development
System and other related Public Service prescripts; experience in project
management, research and monitoring; experience in case management.
Knowledge and understanding of the Constitution of the Republic of South
Africa, 1996, and its application towards effective public service delivery. An
understanding of how this post supports the role of the Public Service
Commission (PSC) regarding the CVP’s. Computer skills in Microsoft Office
suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Excellent report writing,
interpersonal skills; verbal communication; and presentation skills.
Commitment to working under sustained pressure and be self-motivated,
results orientated and show initiative. Ability to work independently and in
matrix teams. Knowledge of people management. Must be in possession of a
valid driver’s license (with the exception to people with disabilities) and be
114
willing to travel extensively and ability to relate well with all levels of
stakeholders.
DUTIES : Investigate grievances through evaluation, research, analysis and draft
investigative reports. Present grievance reports to the Commission; attend and
provide support to the work related to the management and grievance reports
and outcomes. Monitor the implementation of PSC recommendations. Manage
the grievances management system, database and SharePoint. Manage
Labour Relations projects, conduct research and draft articles. Conduct Labour
Relations research projects in the Departments. Conduct Labour Relations
promotional events or the Commission’s work in general.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Meso/ Mr L Yekwa Tel No: (012) 352 1063/1140
POST 45/184 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS IMPROVEMENT REF NO:
DD/LRI/FS/12/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
package includes a basic salary (70%/75% of package), State’s contribution to
the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible
portion of 30%/25% that may be structured in terms of applicable rules. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance agreement
within three months after assumption of duty.
CENTRE : Public Service Commission Free State Provincial Office, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A recognized three-year Bachelor’s degree/Diploma (NQF level 7) in Labour
Relations/Labour Law/Law. 3-5 years’ experience in Labour Relations,
grievance resolution, legal interpretation and investigation research at
supervisory/ASD level. Knowledge of handling Public Management,
Administration and Human Resource Practices and Financial Management.
Knowledge of the Public Service Act, Public Service Commission Act, Senior
Management Service Handbook, Performance Management and Development
System and other related Public Service prescripts; experience in project
management, research and monitoring; experience in case management.
Knowledge and understanding of the Constitution of the Republic of South
Africa, 1996, and its application towards effective public service delivery. An
understanding of how this post supports the role of the Public Service
Commission (PSC) regarding the CVP’s. Computer skills in Microsoft Office
suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Excellent report writing,
interpersonal skills; verbal communication; and presentation skills.
Commitment to working under sustained pressure and be self-motivated,
results orientated and show initiative. Ability to work independently and in
matrix teams. Knowledge of people management. Possesses a valid driver’s
license (with the exception to people with disabilities) and be willing to travel
extensively and ability to relate well with all levels of stakeholders.
DUTIES : Investigate grievances through evaluation, research, analysis and draft
investigative reports. Present grievance reports to the Commission; attend and
provide support to the work related to the management and grievance reports
and outcomes. Monitor the implementation of PSC recommendations. Manage
the grievances management system, database and SharePoint. Manage
Labour Relations projects, conduct research and draft articles. Conduct Labour
Relations research projects in the Departments. Conduct Labour Relations
promotional events or the Commission’s work in general.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Mlisana Tel No: (051) 448-8696
POST 45/185 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION INVESTIGATIONS REF
NO: DD/PAI/NWPO/12/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
package includes a basic salary (70%/75% of package), State’s contribution to
the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible
portion of 30%/25% that may be structured in terms of applicable rules. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance agreement
within three months after assumption of duty.
CENTRE : Public Service Commission North West Provincial Office, Mmabatho/Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate’s profile: The successful candidate must have an Appropriate
recognised National Diploma/Bachelor’s degree (NQF level 6/7) in the field of
Law/Labour law/Forensic Investigations/Public Administration or
Management/Internal Auditing/ Investigation/HRM/Industrial Psychology or
relevant equivalent qualifications. 3-4 years’ experience at an Assistant
115
Director level or equivalent level in investigations, Public Administration
investigations, forensic investigations, internal auditing, fraud and anti-
corruption investigations, financial or human resource management/personnel
investigations and experience in the application and interpretation of the
regulatory prescripts and case law. Knowledge of the Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa 1996, Protection of Personal Information Act, Public
Service Act 1994, Public Administration Management Act 2014, Public Service
Commission Act 1997, the Promotion of Access to Information Act 2000,
Promotion of Administrative Justice Act 2000, Public Finance Management Act
1999, case law, Public Service Regulations 2016 as amended, National
Treasury Regulations, Supply Chain Management prescripts. The ability to
conduct investigations in respect of personnel and public administration
practices. Ability to analyse, interpret and apply legislation, information,
policies, etc. Ability to function independently and as part of a team. Ability to
work under pressure. Well organised. Investigative, interviewing and analytical
skills; Good written and verbal Communication skills. Computer literacy (Ms
Word, PowerPoint, Excel and Outlook). Report writing skills. A valid driver’s
license is required (except for people with disabilities). Knowledge of project
management principles. Strategic planning skills. Ability to co-ordinate various
activities, actions and persons. Knowledge of Treasury Instructions,
Government finances and general budget keeping practices. Financial and
Human Resource Management skills. Ability to analyse financial reports. Ability
to analyse the procurement process in the Public Service. Good written and
verbal communication skills with specific reference to: Conducting interviews,
making presentations regarding proposed investigations, including the finding
of investigations. Writing reports, submissions, letters and memoranda.
DUTIES : Conduct Public Administration Investigations and Personnel Practices
complaints lodged with the Public Service Commission. Initiate and conduct
own-accord investigations. Conduct investigative research into areas of Public
Administration practices Draft reports with appropriate findings,
recommendations/directions/ advice Conduct monthly, quarterly and bi-annual
monitoring of the implementation of the PSC’s recommendations and
directions and update relevant databases Maintain Integrated Complaints and
Grievance System and monthly complaints database. Compile presentations
on investigative reports Provide support in the promotion and evaluation of the
CVPs in section 195 of the Constitution. Management of National Anti-
Corruption Cases and follow up on cases referred to departments for
investigation for feedback. Perform other tasks relating to Professional Ethics,
Labour Relations Improvement, Monitoring and Evaluation and Research
assigned by the Provincial Director. Perform other ad hoc activities assigned
by PSC. Provide support to the Provincial Director and the office through
participation in various committees. Human Resources and Financial
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Mautlwa Tel No: (018) 384-1000
POST 45/186 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FACILITIES MANAGEMENT AND AUXILIARY
SERVICES REF NO: ASD/FMAS/12/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Public Service Commission House, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate’s profile: The successful candidate must have an appropriate
recognized Bachelor’s degree, B. Tech/ Advanced Diploma (NQF 7) in
Facilities Management or Property Management. 3-5 years’ supervisory
experience in facilities management or property management in the public
sector, including in the Private sector Advanced computer skills in MS Office
Suite, including Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook Good communication
and technical skills problem solving, numerical and analytical skills Good
interpersonal relations. Must be assertive, trustworthy, ethical and professional
with integrity Must have effective administrative, organizational and
communication skills. Must be creative, motivated, self-driven, results-oriented
and have initiative Ability to work both independently and as part of a team
Ability to work under pressure and maintain a high level of confidentiality Must
have commitment to transformation An understanding of the Constitutional
Values and Principles (CVP s) in Section 195 and how these CVPs contribute
towards effective public service delivery An understanding of how this post
supports the role of the Public Service Commission (PSC) regarding the CVPs
Must have a valid driver’s license (with exception of disabled applicants).
116
DUTIES : Provide support in Managing procurement of office accommodation Managing
of Facilities and Auxiliary services Supervision of Registry/Record
Management, Transport Services and Cleaning services Supervision of
Human Resources Develop, implement and review Facilities Management
Policies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Z Tshatshelo Tel No: (012) 352 1106
POST 45/187 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SECURITY SERVICES REF NO: ASD/SS/12/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Public Service Commission House, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate’s profile: The successful candidate must have an appropriate
recognized Bachelor’s Degree, B. Tech/ Advanced Diploma (NQF 7) in the field
of Security Management, must be in a possession of Grade A PSIRA
certificate, Completion of SSA Security Advisory Course, 3-5 years’
supervisory experience as Senior Security Officer will be an added advantage,
including in the private sector advanced computer skills in MS Office Suite,
including Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook. Good communication and
should possess technical skills such as Alertness, Attention to detail, Rapid
response, Analytical and Critical skills. Problem solving skills. Good
interpersonal relations. Must have: Computer Literacy and be assertive,
trustworthy, ethical and professional with integrity. Must have effective
administrative, organizational and communication skills. Must be creative,
motivated, self-driven, results-oriented and have initiative. Ability to work both
independently and as part of a team. Ability to work under pressure and
maintain a high level of confidentiality Must have Planning and organising,
Coaching/Mentoring skills, Communication skills, Customer focus, Policy
analysis, Interpersonal Skills, Observation Skills, Time Management Skills,
Emotional intelligence skills, Must have Knowledge of Security procedures and
Security technologies and a commitment to transformation An understanding
of the Constitutional Values and Principles (CVPs) in Section 195 and how
these CVPs contribute towards effective public service delivery. An
understanding of how this post supports the role of the Public Service
Commission (PSC) regarding the CVPs Must have a valid driver’s license (with
exception of disabled applicants).
DUTIES : Administration of personnel, documents, communication, information and
physical security Develop and maintain a Security awareness programme
Conduct Security Threats and Risk Assessments Forge relations with external
security Agencies and other organs of state Develop, implement and review
Security Policies Responsible for People Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Z Tshatshelo Tel No: (012) 352 1106
POST 45/188 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL OFFICE SUPPORT REF NO:
ASDPOS/NW/12/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Public Service Commission Northwest Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal Candidate Profile: Senior Certificate/ Grade 12 (NQF Level 4). A National
Diploma/Degree (New NQF Level 6 or 7) in the field of Social Sciences, Labour
Relations/Law/Public Administration/Management, Industrial Psychology,
Office Administration/Management, Human Resources Management or
equivalent relevant qualification 2-3 years’ experience as State Administration
Officer/Administrative Officer/Personal Assistant or equivalent experience in a
related field, including in the private sector 2 – 3 years’ experience in M&E and
Research/Investigations/Ethics Management at salary level 7/8 or equivalent
will serve as added advantage. Advanced computer skills in MS Office Suite,
including Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook. Good interpersonal relations
Must be assertive, trustworthy, ethical and professional with integrity Must have
effective administrative, organizational and communication skills Must be
creative, motivated, self-driven, results-oriented and initiative Ability to work
both independently and as part of a team Ability to work under pressure and
maintain a high level of confidentiality Must have commitment to transformation
An understanding of the Constitutional Values and Principles (CVPs) in Section
195 and how these CVPs contribute towards effective public service delivery
An understanding of how this post supports the role of the Public Service
Commission (PSC) regarding the CVPs Must have a valid driver’s license (with
exception of disabled applicants).
117
DUTIES : Provide support and assist in: Conducting investigations of Grievances and
Complaints emanating from the Provincial Departments Handling of cases from
National Anti-Corruption Hotline Collecting and Consolidating the six-monthly
grievance reports from Provincial Departments Advocacy Monitoring and
Evaluation of adherence by Provincial Departments to the Constitutional
Values and Principles Governing Public Administration. Professional Ethics
Research Projects Service Delivery Inspections Collating information relating
to financial misconduct from the Provincial Departments Management of
Financial Disclosure Framework in the Province Compiling bi-annual report in
the implementation of the PSC recommendations and update system and
databases. Attend to ad hoc functions as may be directed by the Provincial
Director. Corporate service support (human resources management, financial
management-expenditure monitoring), supply chain management, cleaning
services, records management, facility management, security services, leave
administration, PMDS, petty cash management, management of invoices, gift
management, asset management, etc.) to the Provincial Director and
Commissioner. Perform any duties assigned by the Provincial Director and
participate in various committees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JL Mautlwa Tel No: (018) 348 1000
POST 45/189 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION INVESTIGATIONS (1)
REF NO: ASD/PAI/12/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Public Service Commission House, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognised National Diploma / Bachelor’s degree (NQF level 6)
in Law / Auditing / Forensic Investigations / Public Administration / Social
Sciences or related field. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in
conducting Forensic Investigations / Investigations / Auditing / Fraud and Anti-
Corruption regarding personnel and public administration practices.
Knowledge and experience of the Public Service legislation including but not
limited to: The Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996, the Public
Service Act, 1994, the Public Service Commission Act, 1997, the Public
Finance Management Act, 1999, the Public Service Regulations, National
Treasury Regulations and Supply Chain Management prescripts. Proven
investigative and analytical skills. An understanding of the Constitutional
Values and Principles (CVPs) in section 195 of the Constitution and how these
CVPs contribute towards effective public service delivery. An understanding of
how this post supports the role of the PSC regarding the CVPs. Report Writing
skills. Proven computer literacy in the Microsoft Office Suite (Word,
PowerPoint, Excel and Outlook) Must have a valid driver’s license (with
exception of disabled applicants).
DUTIES : Conduct investigations into complaints lodged with the PSC regarding
personnel and public administration practices. Conduct own accord
investigations into areas of personnel and public administration practices.
Report on investigations conducted, including own accord investigations.
Monitor and report on the implementation of the PSC’s recommendations
and/or directions. Provide strategic support to the organization in the execution
of the mandate of the PSC.
ENQUIRIES : Ms H Sethole Tel No: (012) 352 1226
POST 45/190 : SENIOR HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER REF NO: HRP/PMP/12/2025
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Public Service Commission National Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate profile: Applicants must be in possession of a Senior Certificate
Appropriate (NQF Level 6) in Human Resources Management, Human
Resource Development, Industrial Psychology, Public Management or Public
Administration. 1 to 3 years’ experience in the field. Extensive knowledge and
experience of PERSAL. Administration skills Good Communication skills,
Interpersonal skills Proven Computer skills in the Microsoft Office Suite (Word,
Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook Human resource skills Organising skills. Good
writing skills Ability to handle confidential information. Records management
experience. Conflict management skills.
DUTIES : PERSAL Personnel Controller. Supervise the administration of all Conditions
of Service and Employee Benefits. Scheduling and monitoring of applications.
118
Supervise staff performance and development. Administration and processing
of all Conditions of Service and Employee Benefits.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Human Tel No: (012) 352-1115
POST 45/191 : SENIOR HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCE
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: SHRP/HRD/12/2025
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Public Service Commission National Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate profile: Applicants must be in possession of a Senior Certificate
Appropriate (NQF level 6) in Human Resources Management, Human
Resource Development, Industrial Psychology, Public Management or Public
Administration. Minimum of (1-3) years relevant experience in Human
Resource Development field. Demonstrated experience in using PERSAL.
Knowledge: Knowledge of the Public Service Act & Regulations, and relevant
MPSA Directives and Determinations (understand, interpret and apply).
Knowledge of the relevant HR legislation (e.g., Skills Development Act, Labour
Relations Act, Employment Equity Act). Knowledge of the PERSAL system and
registration of system control change (SCC). Knowledge of the legislative
frameworks in the public service. Microsoft Office suite. Protocol, etiquette and
diplomacy. Batho Pele Principles. Code of Conduct. Competencies/skills.
Strong oral and written communication skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Strong
planning and organizing skills. Good writing skills. Problem solving and
analysis. Client orientation and customer focus. Analytical skills and creative
thinking. Capabilities: Planning and organizing. Basic programme and project
management. Problem solving and analysis. Client orientation and customer
focus. Basic analytics. Basic research. Basic financial management.
Numeracy. Personal Attributes: Professionalism. High level of reliability. Client
focused attitude. Keen attention to detail. Ability to work in a team, Trustworthy
Computer skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint). Problem solving.
Decision making. Interpersonal. Attention to detail. Assertive. Good writing and
verbal communication. Honest and ethical. Must possess a driver’s license with
the exception of people with disabilities.
DUTIES : Management of AET, Internship, Learnership and Workplace Integrated
Learning Programmes, Administer SETA-aligned programmes, learnerships,
and bursary tracking and administration. Orientation/Re-Orientation of
new/existing employees in the OPSC. Implement the Workplace Skills Plan
and report on training activities. Assist in the implementation of performance
improvement interventions. Assist in identifying training needs through skills
audits and performance reviews. Coordinate internal and external training
interventions aligned to WSP priorities. Human Resource Management and
Mentoring of Interns and Learners. Implementation of Employee Performance
Management and Development System. Develop and review HRD policies and
Standard Operating Procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MM Mahuma Tel No: (012) 352 1196
POST 45/192 : SENIOR HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER: RECRUITMENT AND
SELECTION REF NO: SHRP/RS/12/2025
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Public Service Commission National Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate profile: Senior (or equivalent Certificate) or an appropriate
recognized National Diploma in Human Resource Management, Human
Resource Development or equivalent (NQF level 6). 1 to 3 years’ experience
in Recruitment and Selection, knowledge of Human resource planning and
policy development; personnel administration. At least two (2) years’
experience in human resource management field. Sound and in-depth
knowledge of relevant prescripts, and application of human resources as well
as understanding of legislative framework governing the public service.
Knowledge of PERSAL. Good communication (verbal and written),
interpersonal, problem solving, numeracy, literacy, analytical, client oriented,
presentation. Computer skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint) . Problem
solving. Decision making. Interpersonal. Attention to detail. Assertive, good
writing and verbal communication. Honest and ethical. Must possess a driver’s
license with the exception of people with disabilities.
DUTIES : Recruitment and Selection, HR provisioning (Recruitment and Selection,
Appointments, verification of qualification, and secretariat functions. Human
119
Resource Management Practices, Appointments. Develop and Review
Policies. Human Resource Planning.
ENQUIRIES : Mr NA Ledwaba Tel No: (012) 352 1196
POST 45/193 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: SALARIES REF NO: SSA:S/12/2025
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Public Service Commission House, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate’s profile: The successful candidate must have an appropriate
recognize National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in the field of Financial Management
or Management Accounting. 3-5 years working experience in the
Salary/Payroll/PAYE Administration, Debtors Administration, Balance
Reconciliation, and financial accounting environment in the public service,
including in the private sector. Advanced computer skills in MS Office Suite,
including Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook. Good communication and
must have technical skills such as: financial, accounting, numeric skills
Extensive knowledge and expertise in (3-5 years) of BAS and PERSAL
systems and the Standard Chart of Accounts (SCOA), Knowledge and
understanding of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury
Regulations and Financial Management and ability to interpret and apply
financial policies. Must possess innovative, initiative, problem-Solving and
Analysis skills, Knowledge of other Public Service procedures and prescripts
applicable to your area of work, Professional skills; Ability to accept
responsibility and produce good quality of work; Good communication skills
(written and verbal). Ability to work both independently and as part of a team.
Ability to work under pressure and maintain a high level of confidentiality. Must
have commitment to transformation. An understanding of the Constitutional
Values and Principles (CVPs) in Section 195 and how these CVPs contribute
towards effective public service delivery. An understanding of how this post
supports the role of the Public Service Commission (PSC) regarding the CVPs.
Must have a valid driver’s license (with exception of disabled applicants).
DUTIES : Ensuring control over filing and safe keeping of salary related documents and
ensure that payroll reports are distributed and certified correctly and timeously
as regulated. Authorise transactions on PERSAL and BAS and compile
monthly PERSAL-BAS reconciliation. Ensure that all debtors are managed,
reconciled and collected properly and make follow-ups where necessary.
Oversee all SARS related PAYE matters and returns, including e-Filing
reconciliation and supervise the work performance of direct subordinate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Fabricius Tel No: (012) 352 1080
POST 45/194 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: FREE STATE PROVINCIAL OFFICE
REF NO. SNR/ADMIN/FSPO/12/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Office of The Public Service Commission, Free State Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate profile: Applicants must be in possession of a Senior Certificate
(NQF Level 4). National Diploma/ Diploma or equivalent qualification (NQF
level 6) in the field of Social Sciences, Monitoring and Evaluation, Public
Administration/Management and/or Development Management. Minimum of 1-
3 years’ experience of Administration in general. Knowledge: Human Resource
Legislation. Public Management Administration. Human Resource Practices.
Skills: Planning and Organising skills. Project Management skills. Presentation
skills. Report Writing skills. Communication skills.
DUTIES : Supervise and perform supply chain management functions in the province.
Oversee and perform asset management functions in the Office. Assist with
financial management processes in the province. Oversee the implementation
of the records management system and processes. Participate in projects of
the Provincial Office and the OPSC in general. Performing any other Ad Hoc
functions as determined by the Provincial Director.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Mlisana Tel No: (051) 448-8696
POST 45/195 : ADMINISTRATIVE SECRETARY REF NO: ADM SEC/LMP/12/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Public Service Commission House, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate profile: Applicants must be in possession of a Senior
Certificate, National Diploma (NQF level 6) in Office Management
120
and/Administration and a relevant NQF level 7 qualification will be an added
advantage. 3-5 years’ experience as a secretary for senior managers. General
Administration Knowledge. Knowledge of MS office suite. Good
Communication skills. Proven computer skills in the Microsoft Office Suite.
Organising skills. Business writing skills. Telephone Etiquette.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render effective and efficient administrative and
secretarial support service to the Deputy Director-General: Leadership
Management Practices. Manage the administration of the Office of the Deputy
Director-General. Manage the Diary of the Deputy Director-General. Act as
Liaison with the internal and external Stakeholders. Perform background
research for papers, speeches and prepare presentations for the Deputy
Director-General. Coordinate planning and reporting for the Branch.
ENQUIRIES Dr K Sedibe Tel No: (012) 352 1206
POST 45/196 : STATE ADMINISTRATION OFFICER TO THE COMMISSIONER: HEAD
OFFICE REF NO: SAO/NO/12/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Public Service Commission House, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate profile: Applicants must be in possession of Matric/Grade 12
certificate (NQF Level 4). A bachelor’s degree (NQF 7) in administration or a
National Diploma (NQF 6) in Office Management, Management Assistant,
Public Administration or Public Management. 5 years’ experience in the Public
Service, of which at least 3 years must involve providing support service to
senior management.
DUTIES : Rendering administrative support service to Commissioner. Provide secretarial
and personal assistant services to the Commissioner. To control expenditure
in the Office of the Commissioner. To coordinate information for the
Commissioner’s reporting and cluster commitments. Provide personal support
to Commissioner.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Gwaza Tel No: (021) 418 4901/2
POST 45/197 : STATE ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: CHIEF DIRECTORATE: PUBLIC
ADMINISTRATION INVESTIGATIONS REF NO: S/A/O/PAI/12/2025
SALARY : R269 499 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Office of The Public Service Commission, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate profile: Applicants must be in possession of a Degree/ National
Diploma (NQF level 6) in Public Administration / Public Management / Human
Resource Management A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in
administrative work. Knowledge: Knowledge of the Public Service regulatory
framework and the application thereof Knowledge of the departmental policies
and the application thereof Advance computer Literacy Microsoft Office
Operating Systems Operating office equipment Telephone etiquette Office
etiquette. Skills Research skills Office administration. Above average typing
skills, including minute taking Good stakeholders liaison, interpersonal and
communication skills (verbal and written) Planning, coordinating and
organizing. Personal Attributes Ability to work independently and efficiently
under pressure Approachable/friendly personality Dedication, loyalty, reliability
and honesty Sense of responsibility.
DUTIES : Conduct investigations into complaints lodged with the PSC Assist with
gathering of data and the management of databases Complete of ad-hoc tasks
Coordinate information for relevant Commissioner’s cluster departments.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Mashikinya Tel No: (012) 352 1139
POST 45/198 : STATE ADMINISTRATION OFFICER TO THE COMMISSIONER:
MPUMALANGA PROVINCIAL OFFICE REF NO: SAO/MP/12/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Public Service Commission House, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate profile: Applicants must be in possession of a Senior Certificate
(NQF Level 4). A bachelor’s degree (NQF 7) in administration or a National
Diploma (NQF 6) in Office Management, Management Assistant, Public
Administration or Public Management. 5 years’ experience in the Public
Service, of which at least 3 years must involve providing support service to
senior management.
121
DUTIES : Rendering administrative support service to Commissioner. Provide secretarial
and personal assistant services to the Commissioner. To control expenditure
in the Office of the Commissioner. To coordinate information for the
Commissioner’s reporting and cluster commitments. Provide personal support
to Commissioner.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Gwaza Tel No: (021) 418 4901/2
POST 45/199 : ADMINISTRATIVE SECRETARY REF NO: ADM SEC/IAC/12/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Public Service Commission House, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate profile: Applicants must be in possession of a Senior
Certificate, National Diploma (NQF level 6) in Office Management and/
Administration. 3-5years experience as a secretary for senior managers.
General Administration Knowledge. Knowledge of the Microsoft Office Suite,
Communication Skills, Organising skills. Business writing skills. Good
Interpersonal Skills. Telephone Etiquette.
DUTIES : Render effective and efficient administrative and secretarial support service to
the Deputy Director-General: integrity and Anti-Corruption. Manage the
administration of the Office of the Deputy Director-General. Manage the Diary
of the Deputy Director-General. Review reports and documents submitted to
the DDG ‘s office. Act as Liaison with the Stakeholders. Perform background
research for papers, speeches and prepare presentations for the Deputy
Director-General.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Malatsi Tel No: (012) 352 1073
POST 45/200 : ADMINISTRATIVE SECRETARY GRIII: REF NO: AS/CD/GM/12/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Public Service Commission House, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate profile: Applicants must be in possession of a Senior
Certificate. Post matric certificate in Office Administration / Secretarial Support
NQF 6 (Diploma) and above in Office Administration / Secretarial Support or
related field will be an added advantage. Minimum of 5 years in Office
Administration and Secretarial Support. Typing competency experience.
Administration skills. General Administration Knowledge. Typing skills.
Computer skills. Communications skills. Organization skills and Business
writing skills.
DUTIES : Render Effective and efficient administrative and Secretarial Support to the
Chief Director and the Directors within the Chief Directorate. Manage the
administration of the Office of the Chief Director and the Directorates. Provide
administrative support for research, monitoring/evaluation projects and
conferences/workshops/round table sessions within the Chief Directorate.
Management of the Registry. Provision of logistical support for the whole Chief
Directorate. Management of relationships between the components within the
Chief Directorate as well as the Chief Directorate’s internal and external
stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Dr N Nleya Tel No: (012) 352 1018
POST 45/201 : ADMINISTRATIVE SECRETARY GRIII: REF NO: AS/CD/PMP/12/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Office of The Public Service Commission, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate profile: Applicants must be in possession of a Senior
Certificate. Post matric certificate in Office Administration / Secretarial Support
NQF 6 (Diploma) and above in Office Administration / Secretarial Support or
related field will be an added advantage. Minimum of 5 years in Office
Administration and Secretarial Support. Typing competency experience.
Administration skills. Good Communication skills. Interpersonal skills. Proven
Computer skills in the Microsoft Office Suite. Typing skills. Organising skills.
Business writing skills. Ability to handle confidential information.
DUTIES : Render effective and efficient administrative and Secretarial Support Service
to the Chief Director and the Directorates within the Chief Directorate. Manage
the administration of the Office of the Chief Director and the Directorates.
Provide administrative support for research, monitoring/evaluation projects and
conferences/workshops/roundtable sessions within the Chief Directorate.
Management of the Registry. Provision of logistical support. Management of
122
relationships between the components within the Chief Directorate, internal
components and external stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Saki Tel No: (012) 352 1196
POST 45/202 : DOCUMENT CONTROL CLERK: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DCC/FM/12/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Public Service Commission House, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A senior certificate/Grade 12 with accounting will be added as advantages. 0-
2 years working experience within Finance (experience of 1-2 working
experience within Finance environment will be an added advantage.
Knowledge of BAS, LOGIS and PERSAL transversal systems.
DUTIES : Maintain Commitment Register with regard to invoices received internally and
externally. Follow-up on all invoices sent out for certification of approval.
Compile payments in line with financial prescripts and departmental policies.
Ensure that all valid invoices are processed within 30 days. Maintain filing for
all processed BAS and LOGIS payments. Attend to all requests for information
received from Auditor-General of South Africa in relation to payment batches.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Fabricius Tel No: (012) 352 1080
POST 45/203 : ADMINISTRATIVE SECRETARY REF NO: AS/NWPO/12/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Office of The Public Service Commission North-West Provincial Office,
Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate profile: Applicants must be in possession of a Senior
Certificate/Grade 12 (NQF Level 4). Diploma in Office Administration or Public
Administration/Management or Secretarial will be an added advantage.
Administration skills. Good Communication skills. Interpersonal skills.
Computer skills in the Microsoft Office Suite. Typing skills. Organising skills.
Business writing skills. Time Management. Attention to detail. Ability to handle
confidential information.
DUTIES : Render effective and efficient administrative, secretarial, research and liaison
support service to the Provincial Director and the component. Management of
the registry (correspondence, filing, document preparation). Provide logistical
support to the Provincial Director and the component. Management of
stakeholder relations between the components and the Provincial Director,
internal and external stakeholders. Manage Provincial Director’s diary.
Management of reception area. Management of petty cash. Perform any duties
assigned by the Provincial Director.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Mautlwa Tel No: (018) 384-1000
POST 45/204 : ADMINISTRATIVE SECRETARY REF NO: AS/WCPO/12/2025
SALARY R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Office of The Public Service Commission Western Cape, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate profile: Applicants must be in possession of a Senior Certificate
Diploma in Office Administration or Public Administration/Management or
Secretarial will be an added advantage Typing competency and experience
Administration skills Good Communication skills, Interpersonal skills. Proven
Computer skills in the Microsoft Office Suite Typing skills Organising skills
Business writing skills Ability to handle confidential information.
DUTIES : Render effective and efficient administrative and secretarial support service to
the Provincial Director. Management of the registry (incoming and outgoing
correspondence). Managing Provincial Director’s Diary. Provide logistical
services to the Provincial Director and components. Management of
relationships between the components and the Provincial Director, internal and
external stakeholders. Manage records of the office. Manage reception and
switchboard of the office. Control of petty cash.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Pretorius Tel No: (021) 421 3980
123
ANNEXURE P
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
It is our intention to promote representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Public Service through the
filling of this post and candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity will
receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to the
Director-General, Department of Social Development, Private Bag X901,
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: HSRC Building, 134 Pretorius Street In the
event of hand delivery of applications, applicants must sign an application
register book as proof of submission. Applicants may also email their
applications to the following email addresses: For: Executive Director – e-
recruit.ED@dsd.gov.za; Director: Financial, Compliance and IT Audits - e-
recruit.FCIA@dsd.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr S Boshielo
CLOSING DATE : 23 December 2025
NOTE : Curriculum vitae with a detailed description of duties and the names of two
referees must accompany your signed application for employment (Z83). If
applying for more than one position, applicants must submit separate
applications for each position. Shortlisted candidates for a post will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications and identity documents on the date
of the interview. Applicants are advised that from 1 January 2021, a new
application for employment (Z83) form is effective and must be completed in
full, failure to use the new Z83 will result in disqualification. The new form can
be downloaded online at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. Applicants applying for
SMS posts are required to successfully complete the Certificate for entry into
the SMS (submitted prior to appointment) and full details can be sourced by
following the link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/. Applicants are expected to pay for the course and may enroll for
it at a cost of R400.00. The duration of the course is 120 hours. All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One
must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical
Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both technical exercises
as an additional criterion in the interview process. Following the interview and
technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a
generic managerial competency assessment for SMS posts (in compliance
with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-based
assessments). The competency assessment will be testing generic managerial
competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools.
The successful candidate will sign an annual performance agreement,
complete a financial discloser form and will also be required to undergo a
security clearance. Candidates nominated for posts on salary levels 2 - 12 may
be subjected to a competency assessment during the selection process. If the
candidate is applying for an OSD post, certificates of service must be submitted
on the date of the interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA).
Failure to submit the requested documents will result in your application not
being considered. Personnel suitability checks will be conducted on shortlisted
candidates, and the appointment is subject to positive outcomes of the checks.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. The selection of
candidates will be done with due regard to the relevant aspects of the selection
process as set out in the Public Service Amendment Regulations, 2023,
Regulation 67. Applications received after the closing date will not be taken
into consideration. If you have not been contacted within three months after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Candidates requiring additional information regarding the
advertised post may direct their enquiries to the person as indicated above.
Internal applicants must submit and register their employment applications at
the register book in the DSD reception area for the attention of Mr S Boshielo.
DSD reserves the right to cancel the filling/ not to fill a vacancy that was
advertised during any stage of the recruitment process.
124
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 45/205 : EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: INSPECTORATE REF NO: A/Q1/2025
(5-Year Fixed Term Contract)
Inspectorate for Social Assistance
(This is a readvertisement and applicants who applied previously need not
reapply as they will be considered)
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
The successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance
agreement and to sign an employment contract.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 8 as recognized by SAQA in the field of Public
Administration/ Management or Business Administration/ Management or
Legal Studies or Forensic Accounting Plus a minimum of 8 years’ experience
at senior management level. Knowledge of Social Assistance and Regulations,
SASSA Act and PREECA Act. Knowledge and understanding of the Social
Security Framework. Knowledge of matters related to strategic planning, risk
management and monitoring and evaluation. Knowledge of Treasury
Regulations. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act.
Competencies needed: Strategic capability and leadership skills. Programme
and project management skills. Financial management skills. Change
management skills. Information and knowledge management skills.
Communication (written and verbal) skills. Service delivery innovation skills.
Problem solving skills. People management and empowerment skills. Client
orientation and customer focus skills. Stakeholder management skills.
Presentation and facilitation skills. Law enforcement. Investigative. Legal skills.
Attributes: Good interpersonal relations. Ability to work under pressure.
Innovation and creativity. Independent thinker. Ability to work in a team and
independently. Adaptability. Confidentiality. Cost consciousness. Honesty,
integrity and ethics. Emotional intelligence. Ability to evaluate/ analyze
information. Strategic awareness. Customer service oriented and focus.
Accountability. Ability to exercise appropriate judgement. Diplomacy.
Independent thinking. Honesty and integrity. Assertiveness.
DUTIES : Accountable for the overall management and administration of the Inspectorate
for Social Assistance. Oversee investigations of fraud, corruption and service
mismanagement relating to social assistance administered by SASSA.
Oversee financial audits and audits on compliance with regulatory and policy
measures and instruments relating to social assistance. Oversee and manage
the establishment of an effective complaints mechanism. Generally ensure the
integrity of the social assistance framework and systems as envisaged in
Chapter 4 of the Social Assistance Act, 2004 as amended.
ENQUIRIES : Mr FP Netshipale Tel No: (012) 312 7662/ 7556
POST 45/206 : DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL, COMPLIANCE AND IT AUDITS REF NO:
B/Q1/2025
Chief Directorate: Internal Audit Services
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
The successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance
agreement and to sign an employment contract.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Auditing/ Internal Auditing
recognised by SAQA Plus 5 years’ experience at middle/ senior management
in the relevant field. Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service Act
and Regulations. Knowledge and understanding of standards set by the
Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA). Knowledge and understanding of accounting
practices and public sector reporting requirements. Knowledge and
understanding of internal audit and risk management principles and practices.
Knowledge and understanding of PFMA. Knowledge and understanding of
legal compliance, good governance and financial management. Knowledge in
the use of Computer Assisted Audit Techniques (CAATS). Knowledge of
125
corporate governance. Knowledge and understanding of General Acceptance
Accounting Practice (GAAP). Knowledge and understanding of International
Financial Reporting Standards (FRS). Competencies needed: Programme and
project management. Information and knowledge management. People
management and empowerment. Problem solving and change management.
Policy analysis and development. Client orientation and customer focus.
Service delivery innovation. Financial management. Communication (verbal
and written). Computer literacy. Stakeholder management. Planning and
coordination. Presentation and facilitation. Monitoring and evaluation.
Attributes: Good interpersonal relations. Ability to work under pressure.
Innovative and creative. Ability to work in a team and independently.
Adaptability. Emotional intelligence. Independent thinker. Cost consciousness.
Honesty and integrity. Assertiveness.
DUTIES : Develop and implement internal audit policies, strategies, methodologies and
procedures in line with the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA) and relevant public
service legislations. Manage the provision of the IT and Financial audits in
accordance with IIA standards, professional ethics and relevant regulatory
frameworks to ensure the attainment of the overall strategic objectives.
Manage the delivery of quality audit reports. Provide technical support to the
Audit Committee to enable the Committee to meet its objectives. Manage the
assessment on the implementation of audit recommendations and the impact
of the corrective actions taken by management on the deficiencies identified
by the audits. Manage and report on the budget, human resources, and
performance of the chief directorate in line with the set regulations and
prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Mudau Tel No: (012) 312-7304/ 7085
NOTE : In terms of the Department’s employment equity targets, Coloured and White
males and African, Coloured and White females as well as persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
126
ANNEXURE Q
DEPARTMENT OF TOURISM
The Department of Tourism is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity (race, gender, and disability) in the Department through the filling of these posts.
APPLICATIONS : Applications, quoting the relevant reference number, must be forwarded to the
attention of Chief Director: HR Management and Development at Department
of Tourism, Private Bag X424, Pretoria, 0001, or hand delivered at Tourism
House, 17 Trevenna Road, Sunnyside, Pretoria, or by email as provided.
CLOSING DATE : 22 December 2025 by 16:30 (Late applications will not be considered)
NOTE : Application must include a Z83 form and CV only. Electronic application must
be in PDF format and made up of a single document file. Indicate the correct
job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your email.
Failure to do so, your application will be disqualified. Applications quoting the
relevant reference number must be submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable
from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect application
for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each post(s) advert must be
accompanied by its own application form for employment and must be fully
completed, initialled and signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure
to fully complete, initial, and sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the
application during the selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C, and D of
the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on
the Z83, it is acceptable for applicants to refer to their CV or see attached.
However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under
Part “F” must be answered, and the declaration signed. Only an updated
comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience if any) and a completed
and signed new Z83 application form are required. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other related
documents on or before the day of the interview following the communication
from Human Resources, and such qualifications (s) and other related
documents (s) will be in line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA
Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned instructions/
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a (1) practical exercise as part of the assessment
method to determine the candidate’s suitability based on the posts’ technical
and generic requirements and (2) an ethical conduct test. Candidates will
further be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification, and employment
verification). Some of the interviewed candidates for Senior Management level
vacancies may be subjected to a 2-day competency assessment that will test
generic competencies. Appointment will be subject to the signing of the
performance agreement, employment contract, and annual financial
disclosure, and must attain a security clearance (vetting) applicable to the post.
The Department reserves the right not to make an appointment. You are
consenting to the Department of Tourism processing your personal
information, subject to POPIA, by applying for this post.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 45/207 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: DESTINATION PLANNING AND INVESTMENT CO-
ORDINATION REF NO: DT30/2025
The purpose of this role is to manage destination planning, investment co-
ordination and project management practices for tourism infrastructure to
support the current and future growth of the tourism sector.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package. The all-
inclusive remunerative package consists of basic salary (70% of the total
remuneration package), the State’s contribution to the Government Employees
Pension Fund (13% of basic salary), and a flexible portion that may be
structured according to personal needs within a framework.)
CENTRE : Pretoria
127
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum SAQA recognised qualification at NQF level 7 in Tourism
Management/Development Planning/Town & Regional Planning/Geography or
related field. A minimum of 5 years’ experience in a Senior Management
position. Project management experience is an added advantage. Essential
Skills and Knowledge: The ideal candidate should have knowledge of policy
formulation and implementation, public sector planning, investment facilitation,
project implementation, the PFMA, project management prescripts, and
various labour laws. The role requires strong programme and project
management, leadership, strategic and analytical thinking, stakeholder
management, and high-level computer literacy. Other essential skills include
financial management, problem-solving, and communication, especially writing
skills. This role involves extensive interaction with various stakeholders,
including internal groups like top and senior management, legal services, and
the Chief Financial Officer. External contacts include other government
departments, local and provincial tourism departments, private sector
organizations, development funding institutions and communities. Possession
of a valid driver’s license. Willingness to travel. One of the minimum entry
requirements for SMS is the pre-entry certificate submitted prior to appoinment.
For more details on the pre-entry course, visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate must complete the SMS pre-entry certificate prior to any
appointment.
DUTIES : Reporting to the Deputy Director-General: Destination Development, the
successful candidate will also manage the following Directorates: Tourism
Destination Planning, Tourism Investment Co-Ordination and Facilitation, and
Programme Co-ordination. The Chief Director will be responsible for providing
strategic leadership and direction to the Chief Directorate, ensuring alignment
with departmental objectives. Key functions include: Provide planning support
for the co-ordination of tourism destination products. This includes managing
destination competitiveness and analysis, as well as creating and maintaining
tourism spatial information and data management. Co-ordinate and promote a
tourism investment portfolio: You will be responsible for co-ordinating the
promotion of investment into prioritized projects, managing investor relations,
and facilitating investment processes. Provide project management and
administration support for tourism programs: This involves planning for
prioritized projects related to tourism infrastructure, products, and route
development. You will also monitor project implementation and co-ordinate
reporting on these projects. Manage all the resources, operations, systems,
and processes of the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. S Chettiar email: schettiar@tourism.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Recruitment30@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE African and Coloured Females and People living with Disabilities are
encouraged to apply.
POST 45/208 : DIRECTOR: TOURISM INVESTMENT CO-ORDINATION REF NO:
DT31/2025
The purpose of this role is to co-ordinate and promote tourism investment
portfolio.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package. The all-
inclusive remunerative package consists of basic salary (70% of the total
remuneration package), the State’s contribution to the Government Employees
Pension Fund (13% of basic salary), and a flexible portion that may be
structured according to personal needs within a framework.)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum SAQA recognised qualification at NQF level 7 in
Economics/Business Studies or related field. A minimum of 5 years’ experience
in a Middle/Senior Managerial level in in investment facilitation, promotion,
economic diplomacy, or investor stakeholder relations. Essential Skills and
Knowledge: Knowledge of tourism management and development, the
economic environment, and the investment environment. Essential skills
include project management, stakeholder management, strategic planning,
financial management, and human resource management. Possession of a
valid driver’s license. Willingness to travel. One of the minimum entry
requirements for SMS is the pre-entry certificate submitted prior to appoinment.
For more details on the pre-entry course, visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
128
candidate must complete the SMS pre-entry certificate prior to any
appointment.
DUTIES : Reporting to the Chief Director: Destination Planning and Investment Co-
ordination, the successful candidate will be responsible for providing strategic
leadership and direction to the Directorate, ensuring alignment with
departmental objectives. Key functions include: Coordinate Investment
Promotion: Compile an investment project portfolio and conduct project
appraisals. Market investment opportunities. Facilitate and manage strategic
funding partnerships. Manage Investor Relations: Maintain a pipeline of
investment projects. Facilitate investments with all three spheres of
government and the private sector. Provide aftercare services to both new and
existing investors. Manage all the resources, operations, systems, and
processes of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. N Sefoko email: nsefoko@tourism.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Recruitment31@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE African and Coloured Females and People living with Disabilities are
encouraged to apply.
POST 45/209 : DIRECTOR: POLICY DEVELOPMENT AND REGULATIONS REF NO:
DT32/2025
The purpose of this role is to manage the analysis and development of tourism
policy frameworks and regulations.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The all-
inclusive remunerative package consists of basic salary (70% of the total
remuneration package), the State’s contribution to the Government Employees
Pension Fund (13% of basic salary), and a flexible portion that may be
structured according to personal needs within a framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum SAQA recognised qualification at NQF level 7 in Public Policy,
Tourism, Development Studies, or a related field is required. A postgraduate
qualification is an added advantage. A minimum of 5 years’ experience in a
Middle/Senior Managerial level in a policy environment. Essential Skills and
Knowledge: Understanding of policy development processes, the political and
economic context, public service systems, PFMA, and other relevant
legislation. The role requires strategic thinking, problem-solving, strong
presentation skills, communication, facilitation, interpersonal abilities, critical
thinking, analytical skills, and good report writing skills. The ability to manage
conflicts, along with flexibility, adaptability, and emotional intelligence, is also
important. Competencies in project management, stakeholder management,
and the management of human and financial resources are necessary. The
role involves interaction with a wide range of internal and external stakeholders
i.e. Internal: Ministry, Management Committees, Branches, Chief Directorates,
Directorates, and Sub-Directorates & External: International Tourism
Organisations, the private sector, relevant national departments and agencies,
provincial tourism departments, tourism associations, and local government.
Possession of a valid driver’s license. Willingness to travel. One of the
minimum entry requirements for SMS is the pre-entry certificate submitted prior
to appointment. For more details on the pre-entry course, visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate must complete the SMS pre-entry certificate prior to any
appointment.
DUTIES : Reporting to the Chief Director: Policy Planning and Strategy, the successful
candidate will be responsible for providing strategic leadership and direction to
the Directorate, ensuring alignment with departmental objectives. Key
functions include: Policy Development and Review: Lead policy analysis,
develop discussion documents and policy papers, conduct policy
benchmarking, and prepare policy briefings for top management. Stakeholder
Management: Facilitate and chair policy engagements, manage stakeholder
expectations, and represent the organization's policy interests in various
forums. Policy Analysis: Manage the collection of necessary data, provide
policy options based on evidence, and offer rationale for chosen policy options
to stakeholders. Policy Approval Process: Lead the development of Socio-
economic Impact Assessment reports, secure necessary certificates for policy
progression, and present policy proposals to governance clusters. Sectoral
Policy Positioning: Track and analyze national policy developments from other
sectors that may impact tourism, highlight implications, and generate tourism
129
policy positions. Reporting: Generate progress reports on policy advocacy
work and provide progress reports on policy developments to tourism
intergovernmental forums. Manage all the resources, operations, systems, and
processes of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Nkala Tel No: (012) 444 6316
APPLICATIONS : Recruitment32@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : African and Coloured Females and People living with Disabilities are
encouraged to apply.
POST 45/210 : DIRECTOR: STRATEGY DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DT33/2025
The purpose of this role is to manage the development of sector strategies to
stimulate sustainable tourism growth.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The all-
inclusive remunerative package consists of basic salary (70% of the total
remuneration package), the State’s contribution to the Government Employees
Pension Fund (13% of basic salary), and a flexible portion that may be
structured according to personal needs within a framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum SAQA recognised qualification at NQF level 7 in Public
Administration, Tourism, or a related field is required. A post-graduate
qualification would be an added advantage. A minimum of 5 years’ experience
in a Middle/Senior Managerial level within a strategy or policy development
environment. Essential Skills and Knowledge: Strong understanding of
strategy development and stakeholder management processes, Public Service
Systems, PFMA, and other relevant legislation. Strategic thinking and
leadership, planning and execution, financial management, communication,
and good report writing skills. Ability to analyze operational environments and
market trends, and conflict resolution skills. The role involves interaction with
both internal and external stakeholders, including the Ministry, various Chief
Directorates, and local governments, as well as private/public entities and
provincial tourism offices. Possession of a valid driver’s license. Willingness to
travel. One of the minimum entry requirements for SMS is the pre-entry
certificate submitted prior to appointment. For more details on the pre-entry
course, visit: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/. The candidate must complete the SMS pre-entry certificate prior
to any appointment.
DUTIES : Reporting to the Chief Director: Policy Planning and Strategy, the successful
candidate will be responsible for providing strategic leadership and direction to
the Directorate, ensuring alignment with departmental objectives. Key
functions include: Strategy Development: Oversee the development of
environmental scan, manage the development and review of the National
Tourism Sector Strategy, and conduct benchmarking exercises. Stakeholder
Management: Preside over strategy development engagements, manage
stakeholder expectations, and represent the organization's strategic interests
in intergovernmental forums. Cabinet Approval: Prepare all sector strategy
documents for the Cabinet cluster process, lead the development of Socio-
economic Impact Assessment (SEIAS) reports, and present national strategy
proposals to relevant Cabinet clusters. Implementation & Reporting: Ensure
alignment of national, provincial, and local tourism strategies, monitor the
implementation of the national strategy and related plans, and manage the
consolidation of progress reports. Manage all the resources, operations,
systems, and processes of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Nkala Tel No: (012) 444 6316
APPLICATIONS : Recruitment33@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : African and Coloured Females and People living with Disabilities are
encouraged to apply.
INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: 24 MONTHS (2026/2028)
APPLICATIONS : The Department of Tourism offers Internship opportunities to South African
graduates who wish to apply in the fields listed below that are in line with the
department’s core business. Applications must be delivered to the Director
General, Tourism House, 17 Trevena Street, Sunnyside, 0002 or posted to
Private Bag X424, Pretoria, 0001 or Email address: internshipadmin2026-
28@tourism.gov.za. Applications are invited from candidates in the following
disciplines / fields of study:
130
CLOSING DATE : 22 December 2025
NOTE : How To Apply? The application must include only completed and signed new
Form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification, will only be
submitted by shortlisted candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview
date. Requirements: Unemployed South African Graduates / Postgraduates,
with a tertiary qualification in one of the above-mentioned fields of study and
who have not been previously employed under any internship programme are
invited to apply. Applications must be submitted on a new Z83 form obtainable
from any Public Service Department stating the field for which the applicant is
applying (from the above list) and attach your modules to your CV. Failure to
submit the required documents will result in the application not being
considered. Note: Short-listed candidates will be subjected to an interview to
determine their suitability. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three months of the
closing date, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/211 : GRAPHIC DESIGN / COMMUNICATIONS / JOURNALISM REF NO: DT-
INTERN (001)
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Unemployed South African Graduates / Postgraduates, with a tertiary
qualification in one of the above-mentioned fields of study, and who have not
been previously employed under any internship programme, are invited to
apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Moroke Tel No: (012) 444 6166 and Ms K Taunyane Tel No: (012) 444
6164
POST 45/212 : DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION REF NO: DT-INTERN (002)
Duration: The internship program is offered for a period of 24 months.
Successful candidates will be required to sign an internship contract for the
duration of two years.
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Unemployed South African Graduates / Postgraduates, with a tertiary
qualification in one of the above-mentioned fields of study, and who have not
been previously employed under any internship programme, are invited to
apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Moroke Tel No: (012) 444 6166 and Ms K Taunyane Tel No: (012) 444
6164
POST 45/213 : HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO: DT-INTERN (003)
Duration: The internship program is offered for a period of 24 months.
Successful candidates will be required to sign an internship contract for the
duration of two years.
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Unemployed South African Graduates / Postgraduates, with a tertiary
qualification in one of the above-mentioned fields of study, and who have not
been previously employed under any internship programme, are invited to
apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Moroke Tel No: (012) 444 6166 and Ms K Taunyane Tel No: (012) 444
6164
POST 45/214 : HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DT-INTERN (004)
Duration: The internship program is offered for a period of 24 months.
Successful candidates will be required to sign an internship contract for the
duration of two years.
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
131
REQUIREMENTS : Unemployed South African Graduates / Postgraduates, with a tertiary
qualification in one of the above-mentioned fields of study, and who have not
been previously employed under any internship programme, are invited to
apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Moroke Tel No: (012) 444 6166 and Ms K Taunyane Tel No: (012) 444
6164
POST 45/215 : WORK STUDY/MANAGEMENT SERVICES REF NO: DT-INTERN (005)
Duration: The internship program is offered for a period of 24 months.
Successful candidates will be required to sign an internship contract for the
duration of two years.
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Unemployed South African Graduates / Postgraduates, with a tertiary
qualification in one of the above-mentioned fields of study, and who have not
been previously employed under any internship programme, are invited to
apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Moroke Tel No: (012) 444 6166 and Ms K Taunyane Tel No: (012) 444
6164
POST 45/216 : INFORMATION COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY (COMPUTER
SCIENCE) REF NO: DT-INTERN (006)
Duration: The internship program is offered for a period of 24 months.
Successful candidates will be required to sign an internship contract for the
duration of two years.
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Unemployed South African Graduates / Postgraduates, with a tertiary
qualification in one of the above-mentioned fields of study, and who have not
been previously employed under any internship programme, are invited to
apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Moroke Tel No: (012) 444 6166 and Ms K Taunyane Tel No: (012) 444
6164
POST 45/217 : LLB DEGREE REF NO: DT-INTERN (007)
Duration: The internship program is offered for a period of 24 months.
Successful candidates will be required to sign an internship contract for the
duration of two years.
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Unemployed South African Graduates / Postgraduates, with a tertiary
qualification in one of the above-mentioned fields of study, and who have not
been previously employed under any internship programme, are invited to
apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Moroke Tel No: (012) 444 6166 and Ms K Taunyane Tel No: (012) 444
6164
POST 45/218 : INTERNAL AUDIT/RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: DT-INTERN (008)
Duration: The internship program is offered for a period of 24 months.
Successful candidates will be required to sign an internship contract for the
duration of two years.
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Unemployed South African Graduates / Postgraduates, with a tertiary
qualification in one of the above-mentioned fields of study, and who have not
been previously employed under any internship programme, are invited to
apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Moroke Tel No: (012) 444 6166 and Ms K Taunyane Tel No: (012) 444
6164
132
POST 45/219 : BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION/PUBLIC MANAGEMENT REF NO: DT-
INTERN (009)
Duration: The internship program is offered for a period of 24 months.
Successful candidates will be required to sign an internship contract for the
duration of two years.
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Unemployed South African Graduates / Postgraduates, with a tertiary
qualification in one of the above-mentioned fields of study, and who have not
been previously employed under any internship programme, are invited to
apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Moroke Tel No: (012) 444 6166 and Ms K Taunyane Tel No: (012) 444
6164
POST 45/220 : PSYCHOLOGY/SOCIAL WORK REF NO: DT-INTERN (0010)
Duration: The internship program is offered for a period of 24 months.
Successful candidates will be required to sign an internship contract for the
duration of two years.
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Unemployed South African Graduates / Postgraduates, with a tertiary
qualification in one of the above-mentioned fields of study, and who have not
been previously employed under any internship programme, are invited to
apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Moroke Tel No: (012) 444 6166 and Ms K Taunyane Tel No: (012) 444
6164
POST 45/221 : FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT/ACCOUNTING REF NO: DT-INTERN (0011)
Duration: The internship program is offered for a period of 24 months.
Successful candidates will be required to sign an internship contract for the
duration of two years.
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Unemployed South African Graduates / Postgraduates, with a tertiary
qualification in one of the above-mentioned fields of study, and who have not
been previously employed under any internship programme, are invited to
apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Moroke Tel No: (012) 444 6166 and Ms K Taunyane Tel No: (012) 444
6164
POST 45/222 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO: DT-INTERN (0012)
Duration: The internship program is offered for a period of 24 months.
Successful candidates will be required to sign an internship contract for the
duration of two years.
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Unemployed South African Graduates / Postgraduates, with a tertiary
qualification in one of the above-mentioned fields of study, and who have not
been previously employed under any internship programme, are invited to
apply
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Moroke Tel No: (012) 444 6166 and Ms K Taunyane Tel No: (012) 444
6164
POST 45/223 : CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGEMENT REF NO: DT-INTERN (0013)
Duration: The internship program is offered for a period of 24 months.
Successful candidates will be required to sign an internship contract for the
duration of two years.
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Unemployed South African Graduates / Postgraduates, with a tertiary
qualification in one of the above-mentioned fields of study, and who have not
133
been previously employed under any internship programme, are invited to
apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Moroke Tel No: (012) 444 6166 and Ms K Taunyane Tel No: (012) 444
6164
POST 45/224 : ECONOMICS REF NO: DT-INTERN (0014)
Duration: The internship program is offered for a period of 24 months.
Successful candidates will be required to sign an internship contract for the
duration of two years.
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Unemployed South African Graduates / Postgraduates, with a tertiary
qualification in one of the above-mentioned fields of study, and who have not
been previously employed under any internship programme, are invited to
apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Moroke Tel No: (012) 444 6166 and Ms K Taunyane Tel No: (012) 444
6164
POST 45/225 : FINANCIAL ANALYSIS REF NO: DT-INTERN (0015)
Duration: The internship program is offered for a period of 24 months.
Successful candidates will be required to sign an internship contract for the
duration of two years.
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Unemployed South African Graduates / Postgraduates, with a tertiary
qualification in one of the above-mentioned fields of study, and who have not
been previously employed under any internship programme, are invited to
apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Moroke Tel No: (012) 444 6166 and Ms K Taunyane Tel No: (012) 444
6164
POST 45/226 : ECONOMICS AND FINANCIAL INVESTMENT REF NO: DT-INTERN (0016)
Duration: The internship program is offered for a period of 24 months.
Successful candidates will be required to sign an internship contract for the
duration of two years.
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Unemployed South African Graduates / Postgraduates, with a tertiary
qualification in one of the above-mentioned fields of study, and who have not
been previously employed under any internship programme, are invited to
apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Moroke Tel No: (012) 444 6166 and Ms K Taunyane Tel No: (012) 444
6164
POST 45/227 : POLICY AND DEVELOPMENT STUDIES REF NO: DT-INTERN (0017)
Duration: The internship program is offered for a period of 24 months.
Successful candidates will be required to sign an internship contract for the
duration of two years.
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Unemployed South African Graduates / Postgraduates, with a tertiary
qualification in one of the above-mentioned fields of study, and who have not
been previously employed under any internship programme, are invited to
apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Moroke Tel No: (012) 444 6166 and Ms K Taunyane Tel No: (012) 444
6164
134
POST 45/228 : PUBLIC AND DEVELOPMENT SECTOR MONITORING AND EVALUATION
REF NO: DT-INTERN (0018)
Duration: The internship program is offered for a period of 24 months.
Successful candidates will be required to sign an internship contract for the
duration of two years.
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Unemployed South African Graduates / Postgraduates, with a tertiary
qualification in one of the above-mentioned fields of study, and who have not
been previously employed under any internship programme, are invited to
apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Moroke Tel No: (012) 444 6166 and Ms K Taunyane Tel No: (012) 444
6164
POST 45/229 : INFORMATION SYSTEMS / DATA SCIENCE / SOFTWARE
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DT-INTERN (0019)
Duration: The internship program is offered for a period of 24 months.
Successful candidates will be required to sign an internship contract for the
duration of two years.
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Unemployed South African Graduates / Postgraduates, with a tertiary
qualification in one of the above-mentioned fields of study, and who have not
been previously employed under any internship programme, are invited to
apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Moroke Tel No: (012) 444 6166 and Ms K Taunyane Tel No: (012) 444
6164
POST 45/230 : INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS REF NO: DT-INTERN (0020)
Duration: The internship program is offered for a period of 24 months.
Successful candidates will be required to sign an internship contract for the
duration of two years.
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Unemployed South African Graduates / Postgraduates, with a tertiary
qualification in one of the above-mentioned fields of study, and who have not
been previously employed under any internship programme, are invited to
apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Moroke Tel No: (012) 444 6166 and Ms K Taunyane Tel No: (012) 444
6164
POST 45/231 : DEVELOPMENT STUDIES REF NO: DT-INTERN (0021)
Duration: The internship program is offered for a period of 24 months.
Successful candidates will be required to sign an internship contract for the
duration of two years.
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Unemployed South African Graduates / Postgraduates, with a tertiary
qualification in one of the above-mentioned fields of study, and who have not
been previously employed under any internship programme, are invited to
apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Moroke Tel No: (012) 444 6166 and Ms K Taunyane Tel No: (012) 444
6164
POST 45/232 : TOURISM MANAGEMENT REF NO: DT-INTERN (0022)
Duration: The internship program is offered for a period of 24 months.
Successful candidates will be required to sign an internship contract for the
duration of two years.
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Unemployed South African Graduates / Postgraduates, with a tertiary
qualification in one of the above-mentioned fields of study, and who have not
135
been previously employed under any internship programme, are invited to
apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Moroke Tel No: (012) 444 6166 and Ms K Taunyane Tel No: (012) 444
6164
136
ANNEXURE R
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: EASTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE & TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS
The Department of Cooperative Governance & Traditional Affairs is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer. Military Veterans, persons from previously disadvantaged (designated) groups
including people with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Employment Equity targets of the Department
will be considered in the selection process.
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted only via the provincial e-recruitment system
accessible at: https://ecprov.gov.za and/or at https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za
The Provincial e-Recruitment System Closes at 23: 59 on the Closing Date. To
report technical glitches, for assistance regarding the system, and/or for
activation of your profile, password resets, etc, send an email with (i) your ID
Number, (ii) your profile email address, (iii) details of the issue to:
recruitment@eccogta.gov.za. Do not submit any applications to this email
address as all applications submitted here will be regarded as lost and will not
be considered. Technical support is limited to working hours: (08:00-16:30
Mon-Thurs and 08:00-16:00 on Fridays).
CLOSING DATE : 22 December 2025. No Late applications will be accepted
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly complete Z83 form (effective from 01
January 2021) obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents, e-Recruitment System automatically
generates Z83 immediately you apply. Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must
submit a fully completed signed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. NB:
Z83 in the e-recruitment system is currently not signable; so, applicants who
submitted applications via the e-recruitment system will not be disqualified for
an unsigned Z83 instead will be requested to sign on interview day. Under My
Job Applications, the system Z83 does not reflect work experience and
qualifications, however, every detail of your information does reflect to the
Recruitment team. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
copies of qualifications, and other relevant documents to HR on or before the
interview date. Applicants with foreign qualifications would be required to
submit an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA) on or before the day of the interview. Failure to submit all the requested
documents will disqualify the application. Correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within six (6)
months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial/asset record check, qualification/study verification and previous
employment verification). Successful candidates will also be subjected to
security clearance processes. Where applicable, candidates will be subjected
to a skills/knowledge test. The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Successful candidates will be appointed on a probation period of twelve 12/24
months. Misrepresentation in the application documents will result in automatic
disqualification and disciplinary action in the event the candidate has already
been appointed. It is the department’s objective to address the Employment
Equity Affirmative Action Measures in line with the Employment Equity Plan
and to achieve equitable representation across race and gender. In filling of
these posts gender equity and people living with disability will be highly
considered to adhere to the EE targets of the department. The Department
reserves the right to amend/ review/ withdraw advertised posts if by so doing,
the best interest of the department will be well served. (Females and People
with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications).
137
OTHER POST
POST 45/233 : ADMIN CLERK: SECURITY & WORK ENVIRONMENT REF NO: COGTA
01/12/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Higher Certificate/ Diploma (NQF Level 5) in Public Management/
Public Administration/ Social Science or relevant qualification with no
experience OR Senior Certificate (NQF Level 4) with two years’ in Public
Service/ Office Administration. Microsoft word, Excel, PowerPoint and email.
Competencies: Good interpersonal skills. Basic Communication skills (Verbal
and Written) organizational skills and ability to maintain high level of
confidentiality. Knowledge of Public Service Prescripts including PFMA
Treasury Regulations.
DUTIES : Compile claim forms, Calculate and submit to the Supervisor. Compile list and
capturing of claims on system. Filling of claims documents.
ENQUIRES : Mr M. Matebese / Ms. N Mabusela at 071 689 6162
APPLICATIONS : For e-Recruitment enquiries, email to: recruitment@eccogta.gov.za
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted only via the provincial e-recruitment system
accessible at: https://ecprov.gov.za and/or at https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za
The Provincial e-Recruitment System Closes at 23: 59 on the Closing Date. To
report technical glitches, for assistance regarding the system, and/or for
activation of your profile, password resets, etc, send an email with (i) your ID
Number, (ii) your profile email address, (iii) details of the issue to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za. Do not submit any applications to
this email address as all applications submitted here will be regarded as lost
and will not be considered. Technical support is limited to working hours:
(08:00-16:30 Mon-Thurs and 08:00-16:00 on Fridays).
CLOSING DATE : 22 December 2025. No Late applications will be accepted.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly complete Z83 form (effective from 01
January 2021) obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents, e-Recruitment System automatically
generates Z83 immediately you apply. SMS (Senior Management Service)
Posts: In terms of DPSA Directive on compulsory capacity development,
mandatory training, and minimum entry requirements for members of the
Senior Management Level for SMS appointments, it is a requirement for SMS
positions to have obtained pre-entry Certificate (Nyukela) as offered by the
National School of Government (NSG) for entry into the SMS posts and the full
details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme (the
SMS pre-entry certificate is not a requirement for shortlisting; is submitted prior
to appointment). Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit a fully completed
signed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. NB: Z83 in the e-recruitment
system is currently not signable; so, applicants who submitted applications via
the e-recruitment system will not be disqualified for an unsigned Z83 instead
will be requested to sign on interview day. Under My Job Applications, the
system Z83 does not reflect work experience and qualifications, however,
every detail of your information does reflect to the Recruitment team.
Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications, and other relevant documents to HR on or before the interview
date. Applicants with foreign qualifications would be required to submit an
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) on
or before the day of the interview. Failure to submit all the requested
documents will disqualify the application. Correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within six (6)
months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial/asset record check, qualification/study verification and previous
employment verification). Successful candidates will also be subjected to
security clearance processes. Where applicable, candidates will be subjected
to a skills/knowledge test. The competency assessment will be testing generic
138
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Successful candidates will be appointed on a probation period of twelve 12/24
months. Misrepresentation in the application documents will result in automatic
disqualification and disciplinary action in the event the candidate has already
been appointed. It is the department’s objective to address the Employment
Equity Affirmative Action Measures in line with the Employment Equity Plan
and to achieve equitable representation across race and gender. In filling of
these posts gender equity and people living with disability will be highly
considered to adhere to the EE targets of the department. The Department
reserves the right to amend/ review/ withdraw advertised posts if by so doing,
the best interest of the department will be well served. (Females and People
with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications). Enquires can be directed to: Ms. S Ndlabhu Tel no: 040 608 1272
For e-Recruitment enquiries, email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/234 : CHIEF MECHANICAL ENGINEER (INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING) REF
NO: ECHEALTH/CME-IP/HO/HFRG/01/12/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R1 266 450 – R1 446 921 per annum, (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade B: R1 532 466 – R2 388 657 per annum, (OSD), an all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Head Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, an NQF level 7 qualification in Engineering (B
Eng/BSC (Eng) or relevant qualification coupled with six (6) years’ experience
post qualification as registered professional Engineer. Compulsory registration
with ECSA as professional Engineer (Mechanical). A valid Driver’s licence.
Computer literate.
DUTIES : To perform final review and approvals of audits on new engineering designs
according to design principles or theory. Research the needs of the relevant
health institutions. Monitoring of current deployed technology. Manage the
execution of maintenance strategy through the provision of appropriate
structures, systems and resources. Monitor maintenance efficiencies
according to organizational goals to direct or redirect engineering services for
the attainment of organizational objectives. Allocate, control, monitor and
report on all resources. Compile risk logs and manage significant risk according
to sound risk management practice and organizational requirements. Provide
technical consulting services for the operation on engineering risks. Manage
the availability and management of funds to meet the MTEF objectives within
the engineering environment. Manage the operational capital project portfolio
for the operation to ensure effective resourcing according to the organisational
needs and objectives. Assist with the establishment of the statutory structures
as required in terms of the Act. Monitor OHS training interventions at all Health
Facilities in terms of equipment. Monitor safety audits. Continuous professional
development to keep up with new technologies and procedure. Develop and
manage the operational plan. Serve on transversal task teams as required.
Implement quality control of work delivered by employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gwarube Tel No: (040) 608 1180
For e-Recruitment enquiries, email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 45/235 : CHIEF MECHANICAL ENGINEER (ENGINEERING & TECHNICAL
SERVICES) REF NO: ECHEALTH/CME-ETS/HO/HFRG/02/12/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R1 266 450 – R1 446 921 per annum, (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade B: R1 532 466 – R2 388 657 per annum, (OSD), an all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Head Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, an NQF level 7 qualification in Engineering (B
Eng/BSC (Eng) or relevant qualification coupled with six (6) years’ experience
post qualification as registered professional Engineer. Compulsory registration
with ECSA as professional Engineer (Mechanical). A valid Driver’s licence.
Computer literate.
139
DUTIES : To perform final review and approvals of audits on new engineering designs
according to design principles or theory. Research the needs of the relevant
health institutions. Monitoring of current deployed technology. Manage the
execution of maintenance strategy through the provision of appropriate
structures, systems and resources. Monitor maintenance efficiencies
according to organizational goals to direct or redirect engineering services for
the attainment of organizational objectives. Allocate, control, monitor and
report on all resources. Compile risk logs and manage significant risk according
to sound risk management practice and organizational requirements. Provide
technical consulting services for the operation on engineering risks. Manage
the availability and management of funds to meet the MTEF objectives within
the engineering environment. Manage the operational capital project portfolio
for the operation to ensure effective resourcing according to the organisational
needs and objectives. Assist with the establishment of the statutory structures
as required in terms of the Act. Monitor OHS training interventions at all Health
Facilities in terms of equipment. Monitor safety audits. Continuous professional
development to keep up with new technologies and procedure. Develop and
manage the operational plan. Serve on transversal task teams as required.
Implement quality control of work delivered by employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gwarube Tel No: (040) 608 1180
For e-Recruitment enquiries, email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 45/236 : CHIEF ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (ENGINEERING & TECHNICAL
SERVICES) REF NO: ECHEALTH/CEE-ETS/HO/HFRG/03/12/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R1 266 450 – R1 446 921 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade B: R1 532 466 – R2 388 657 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Head Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, an NQF level 7 qualification in Engineering (B
Eng/BSC (Eng) or relevant qualification coupled with six (6) years’ experience
post qualification as registered professional Engineer. Compulsory registration
with ECSA as professional Engineer (Electrical). A valid Drivers licence.
Computer literate.
DUTIES : To perform final review and approvals of audits on new engineering designs
according to design principles or theory. Research the needs of the relevant
health institutions. Monitoring of current deployed technology. Manage the
execution of maintenance strategy through the provision of appropriate
structures, systems and resources. Monitor maintenance efficiencies
according to organizational goals to direct or redirect engineering services for
the attainment of organizational objectives. Allocate, control, monitor and
report on all resources. Compile risk logs and manage significant risk according
to sound risk management practice and organizational requirements. Provide
technical consulting services for the operation on engineering risks. Manage
the availability and management of funds to meet the MTEF objectives within
the engineering environment. Manage the operational capital project portfolio
for the operation to ensure effective resourcing according to the organisational
needs and objectives. Assist with the establishment of the statutory structures
as required in terms of the Act. Monitor OHS training interventions at all Health
Facilities in terms of equipment. Monitor safety audits. Continuous professional
development to keep up with new technologies and procedure. Develop and
manage the operational plan. Serve on transversal task teams as required.
Implement quality control of work delivered by employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gwarube Tel No: (040) 608 1180
For e-Recruitment enquiries, email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 45/237 : CHIEF QUANTITY SURVEYOR (DELIVERY DIRECTORATE) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/QS-DD /HO/HFRG/04/12/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R1 099 488 - R1 250 907 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade B: R1 323 267 - R2 027 811 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Head Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, an NQF level 7 in Quantity Surveying and/or
equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA coupled with six (6) years’ post
qualification survey experience as a Quantity Surveyor. Compulsory
140
registration as Professional Quantity Surveyor with SACQSP. A valid driver’s
licence. Computer literate.
DUTIES : Prepare the Procurement Strategy, Infrastructure Programme Management
Plan (IPMP) and updating of the plan. Prepare the infrastructure budget and
final project list. Prepare the packages/individual project briefs; presenting
these to Implementing Agent (IA) referred to as Project Execution Plan v1 with
all the inputs obtained from the Directorate Infrastructure Planning. Participate
in the procurement of Professional Services Providers and Contractors,
including the preparation and approval of Bid Specifications and evaluations of
tenders as member of the Supply Chain Management Committees in Public
Works and/or relevant SCM Committees of Alternative IAs and Provincial
Department of Health. Monitor the implementation of programmes and projects
by the Implementing Agent (IA) and the adherence to the Service Delivery
Agreement. Review and sign off on the Infrastructure Programme
Implementation Plan (IPIP) as prepared by the Implementing Agent (IA).
Review and recommend Variation Orders in terms of contracts management
practice and financial implications in collaboration with professionals in the
directorate Infrastructure Planning. Develop and approve project stage reports
and designs, in accordance with strategic decision-making points as defined in
the Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Framework (IDMS). Coordinate and
participate in project commissioning, including site visits. Review and
maintenance plans and budget on completion of project. Review Infrastructure
projects and programmes in line with the built environment norms, standards
and legislative requirements. Monitor that infrastructure projects that are
planned within available funds. Monitor expenditure on infrastructure projects
within the budgets. Control cost and scope variances on infrastructure projects.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gwarube Tel No: (040) 608 1180
For e-Recruitment enquiries, email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 45/238 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ADMIN SUPPORT & COORDINATION (OFFICE OF
THE MEC) REF NO: ECHEALTH/DD-ASC/HO/05/12/2025
This is a re-advertisement. Applicants who have applied in the previous
advertisement are encouraged to apply again.
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Head Office; Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, an appropriate NQF Level 7 as recognized by
SAQA in Public Administration/Management/Office Management and
Technology or any equivalent qualification coupled with Five (5) years’
experience of which three (3) years must be at Assistant Director level (SL9)
preferably in a core Staff environment/Political Office. A valid driver’s license is
a prerequisite. Knowledge of Monitoring and evaluation Process. Reporting
procedure. Strategic planning Processes. Budgeting process. Strategic
reporting. Public Service Act, 1994. Public Service Regulations 2001. Public
Finance Management Act, 1999. Treasury regulations. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Coordinate the planning process for the MEC Office. Analyze reports coming
from statutory bodies and identify areas of emphasis. Organize and facilitate
sessions to discuss portfolio questions and draw responses. Facilitate tabling
and discussion of Directorate Operational Plans. Develop and implement
records management policies, file plans, strategies, and procedures:
Coordinate records management policies to ensure compliance. Provide
registry support services in the office of the MEC. Implement the records
management and file plans effectively. Monitor accurate monthly and quarterly
reports. Ensures the safekeeping of all documentation in the office of the Head
in line with relevant legislation and policies. Ensures that office equipment, e.g.
Fax machines and photocopiers are in good working order. Records the
engagements of the Head of Office. Utilizes discretion to decide whether to
accept/decline or refer to other employees’ requests for meetings, based on
the assessed importance and urgency of the matter. Coordinates with and
sensitizes/ advises the Head of office regarding engagements. Compiles
realistic schedules of appointments. Ensures the effective flow of information
and documents to and from the head office. Obtains inputs, collates and
compiles reports, e.g: progress and management reports. Scrutinizes routine
submissions/ reports and makes notes and/or recommendations for the
manager. Responds to enquiries received from internal and external
stakeholders. Coordinate and guide budgeting process and financial reporting:
141
Consolidate the budget of the Head of office for submission to the Budget
Office. Prepare In-year Monitoring report for the Office. Maintain high
standards by ensuring that the team/section produces excellent work in terms
of quality/quantity and timeliness.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Ndlabhu Tel No: (040) 608 1272
For e-Recruitment enquiries, email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 45/239 : CIVIL/ STRUCTURAL ENGINEER: INFRASTRUCTURE DELIVERY REF
NO: ECHEALTH/CSE-ID/HO/HFRG/06/12/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R879 342 - R938 061 per annum, (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade B: R990 669 - R1 067 235 per annum, (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade C: R1 127 100 - R1 323 267 per annum, (OSD), an all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Head Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, an NQF level 7 qualification in Engineering (B
Eng/BSC (Eng) or relevant qualification as recognised by SAQA coupled with
three (3) years’ experience post qualification as registered professional
Engineer (Civil/Structural). Compulsory registration with ECSA as professional
Engineer. A valid driver’s licence. Computer literate.
DUTIES : To prepare the Procurement Strategy, Infrastructure Programme Management
Plan (IPMP) and updating of the plan. Prepare the Infrastructure budget and
final project list. Prepare the packages/individual project briefs; presenting
these to Implementing Agent (IA) – referred to as Project Execution Plan v1
with all the inputs obtained from the Directorate Infrastructure Planning.
Participate in the procurement of Professional Service Providers and
Contractors, including the preparation and approval of Bid Specifications and
evaluations of tenders as member of the Supply Chain Management
Committees in Public Works and / or relevant SCM Committees of Alternative
IAs and Provincial Department of Health. Monitor the implementation of
Programmes and Projects by the Implementing Agent (IA) and the adherence
to the Service Delivery Agreement. Manage project implementation of projects
that are not allocated to an Implementing Agent (IA). Review the sign off on the
Infrastructure Programme Implementation Plan (IPIP) as prepared by the
Implementing Agent (IA). Develop and approve project stage reports & designs
in accordance with strategic decision-making points as defined in the Provincial
Infrastructure Delivery Framework (IDMS). Coordinate and participate in
project commissioning including site visits. Review the maintenance plans and
budgets on completion of projects. Collect and update information on systems
(if applicable) in terms of Technical Condition Assessments on completion of
projects. Review Infrastructure projects and programmes in line with built
environment norms, standards and legislative requirements. Manage and
participate in Post Project and Post Occupancy Evaluation exercises. Update
the Infrastructure policies of the Department in terms of research findings, new
technology and changes in the institutional environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gwarube Tel No: (040) 608 1180
For e-Recruitment enquiries, email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 45/240 : MECHANICAL ENGINEER: PLANNING DIRECTORATE REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ME-PD/HO/HFRG/07/12/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R879 342 - R938 061 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade B: R 990 669 - R1 067 235 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade C: R1 127 100 - R1 323 267 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Head Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, an NQF level 7 qualification in Engineering (B
Eng/BSC (Eng) or relevant qualification coupled with three (3) years’
experience post qualification as registered professional Engineer. Compulsory
registration with ECSA as professional Engineer (Mechanical). A valid Drivers
licence. Computer literate.
DUTIES : To provide inputs to technical and functional norms and standards from an
engineering perspective to be issued in terms of the Provincial Health Facilities
Guidelines. Monitor that infrastructure projects implemented by Implementing
Agent(s) comply with approved engineering functional and technical norms and
standards and that the planning and design are according to sound engineering
principles and code of practice. Update functional and technical norms and
142
standards updated based on learning generated through Post Project and Post
Occupancy Evaluation (POE) exercises. Prepare reports stating the
advisability, desirability, impact and legality of proposals for innovative service
delivery mechanisms. Undertake feasibility studies and prepare reports
detailing service impact, financial impact, infrastructure impact, constraints,
alternatives and attainability. Develop cost effective solutions according to
standards. Prepare technical specifications. Apply mechanical design
principles. Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard drawings and
procedures to incorporate new technology in specifications. Undertake
preliminary costing per installation. Develop mechanical engineering standard
data sheets and drawings. Provide mechanical engineering inputs to Project
Execution Plan v.1. Prepare reports on mechanical engineering investigations.
Determine mechanical engineering proposals and design work for solutions
where necessary. Provide mechanical engineering professional and technical
advice in the form of verbal and written advice reports, calculations,
specifications and drawings. Monitor and study the health sector, legal
frameworks, standards changes and policy frameworks. Engage in relevant
continuous professional development activities (tools and techniques) as
prescribed and /or required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gwarube Tel No: (040) 608 1180
For e-Recruitment enquiries, email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 45/241 : MECHANICAL ENGINEER: ENGINEERING & TECHNICAL SERVICES REF
NO: ECHEALTH/ME-ETS/HO/HFRG/08/12/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R879 342 - R938 061 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade B: R990 669 - R1 067 235 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade C: R1 127 100 - R1 323 267 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Head Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, an NQF level 7 qualification in Engineering (B
Eng/BSC (Eng) or relevant qualification as recognised by SAQA coupled with
three (3) years’ experience post qualification as registered professional
Engineer (Mechanical). Compulsory registration with ECSA as professional
Engineer. A valid Drivers licence. Computer literate.
DUTIES : To perform final review and approvals of audits on new engineering designs
according to design principles or theory. Research the needs of the relevant
health institutions. Co-ordinate designs efforts and integration across
disciplines to ensure seamless integration with current technology. Pioneering
of new engineering services and management methods. Manage the execution
of maintenance strategy through the provision of appropriate structures,
systems and resources. Set engineering maintenance standards,
specifications and service levels according to organizational objectives to
ensure optimum operational availability. Allocate, control, monitor and repot on
all resources. Compile risks logs and manage significant risk according to
sound risk management practice and organizational requirements. Provide
technical consulting services for the operation on engineering related matters
to minimise possible engineering risks. Manage the operational capital project
portfolio for the operation to ensure effective resourcing according to
organizational needs and objectives. Facilitate the compilation of innovation
proposals to ensure validity and adherence to organisational principles.
Continuous professional development to keep up with new technologies and
procedure.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gwarube Tel No: (040) 608 1180
For e-Recruitment enquiries, email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 45/242 : ELECTRICAL ENGINEER: INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING REF NO:
ECHEALTH/EE-IP /HO/HFRG/09/12/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R879 342 - R938 061 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade B: R990 669 - R1 067 235 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade C: R1 127 100 - R1 323 267 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Head Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, an NQF level 7 qualification in Engineering (B
Eng/BSC (Eng) or relevant qualification as recognised by SAQA coupled with
three (3) years’ experience post qualification as registered professional
143
Engineer (Electrical). Compulsory registration with ECSA as professional
Engineer. A valid driver’s licence. Computer literate.
DUTIES : To provide inputs to technical and functional norms and standards from an
engineering perspective to be issued in terms of the Provincial Health Facilities
Guidelines. Monitor that infrastructure projects implemented by Implementing
Agent (s) comply with approved engineering functional and technical norms
and standards and that the planning and design are according to sound
engineering principles and code of practice. Update functional and technical
norms and standards updated based on learning generated through Post
Project and Post Occupancy Evaluation (POE) exercises. Prepare reports
stating the advisability, desirability, impact and legality of proposals for
innovative service delivery mechanisms. Undertake feasibility studies and
prepare reports detailing services impact, financial impact, infrastructure
impact, constraints, alternatives and attainability. Develop cost effective
solutions according to standards. Prepare technical specifications. Apply
electrical design principles. Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard
drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology in specifications.
Undertake preliminary costing per installation. Prepare reports on electrical
engineering investigation. Determine electrical engineering proposals and
design work for solutions where necessary. Provide electrical engineering
inputs to implement projects successfully. Provide electrical engineering
professional and technical advice in the form of verbal and written advice,
reports calculations, specifications and drawings. Monitor and study the health
sector, legal framework, standards changes and policy frameworks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gwarube Tel No: (040) 608 1180
For e-Recruitment enquiries, email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 45/243 : ELECTRICAL ENGINEER: ENGINEERING & TECHNICAL SERVICES REF
NO: ECHEALTH/EE-ETS/HO/HFRG/10/12/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R879 342 - R 938 061 per annum, (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade B: R990 669 - R1 067 235 per annum, (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade C: R1 127 100 - R1 323 267 per annum, (OSD), an all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Head Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, an NQF level 7 qualification in Engineering (B
Eng/BSC (Eng) or relevant qualification as recognised by SAQA coupled with
three (3) years’ experience post qualification as registered professional
Engineer (Electrical). Compulsory registration with ECSA as professional
Engineer. A valid driver’s licence. Computer literate.
DUTIES : To provide inputs to technical and functional norms and standards from an
engineering perspective to be issued in terms of the Provincial Health Facilities
Guidelines. Monitor that infrastructure projects implemented by Implementing
Agent (s) comply with approved engineering functional and technical norms
and standards and that the planning and design are according to sound
engineering principles and code of practice. Update functional and technical
norms and standards updated based on learning generated through Post
Project and Post Occupancy Evaluation (POE) exercises. Prepare reports
stating the advisability, desirability, impact and legality of proposals for
innovative service delivery mechanisms. Undertake feasibility studies and
prepare reports detailing services impact, financial impact, infrastructure
impact, constraints, alternatives and attainability. Develop cost effective
solutions according to standards. Prepare technical specifications. Apply
electrical design principles. Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard
drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology in specifications.
Undertake preliminary costing per installation. Prepare reports on electrical
engineering investigation. Determine electrical engineering proposals and
design work for solutions where necessary. Provide electrical engineering
inputs to implement projects successfully. Provide electrical engineering
professional and technical advice in the form of verbal and written advice,
reports calculations, specifications and drawings. Monitor and study the health
sector, legal framework, standards changes and policy frameworks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gwarube Tel No: (040) 608 1180
For e-Recruitment enquiries, email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
144
POST 45/244 : QUANTITY SURVEYOR (INFRASTRUCTURE DELIVERY) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ME-ETS/HO/HFRG/11/12/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R761 157 – R816 852 per annum, (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade B: R866 304 - R924 198 per annum, (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade C: R976 029 - R1 144 008 per annum, (OSD), an all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Head Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, an NQF level 7 in Quantity Surveying and/or
equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA coupled with three (3) years’
post qualification survey experience as a Quantity Surveyor. Compulsory
registration as Professional Quantity Surveyor with SACQSP. A valid driver’s
licence. Computer literate.
DUTIES : To prepare the Procurement strategy, Infrastructure Programme Management
Plan (IPMP) and updating of the plan. Prepare the Infrastructure budget and
final project list. Prepare the packages/individual project briefs; presenting
these to the Implementing Agent (IA) referred to as Project Execution Plan v1
with all the inputs obtained from the Directorate Infrastructure Planning.
Participate in the procurement of Professional Service Providers and
Contractors, including the preparation and approval of Bid Specifications and
evaluations of tenders as member of the Supply Chain Management
Committees in Public Works and/ or relevant SCM Committees of Alternative
IAs and Provincial Department of Health. Monitor the implementation of
Programmes and Projects by the Implementing Agent (IA) and the adherence
to the Service Delivery Agreement. Manage project implementation of projects
that are not allocated to an Implementing Agent (IA). Review and sign off on
the Infrastructure Programme Implementation Plan (IPIP) as prepared by the
Implementing Agent (IA). Review and recommend Variation Orders in terms of
contract management practice and financial implications in collaboration with
professionals in the Directorate Infrastructure Planning. Manage the updating
of project/programme documentation and information and submit all built
environment documentation to the Directorate Infrastructure Planning and the
financial documents to the Deputy Director Finance. Coordinate and participate
in project commissioning including site visits. Collect and update information
on systems in terms of Technical Condition Assessment on completion of
projects. Review Infrastructure Projects and programmes in line with the built
environment norms, standards and legislative requirements. Monitor and study
the Health sector, legal frameworks standards changes and policy frameworks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gwarube Tel No: (040) 608 1180
For e-Recruitment enquiries, email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 45/245 : QUANTITY SURVEYOR (INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/QS-IF /HO/HFRG/12/12/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R761 157 – R816 852 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade B: R866 304 - R924 198 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade C: R976 029 - R1 144 008 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Head Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, an NQF level 7 in Quantity Surveying and/or
equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA coupled with three (3) years’
post qualification survey experience as a Quantity Surveyor. Compulsory
registration as Professional Quantity Surveyor with SACQSP. A valid driver’s
licence. Computer literate.
DUTIES : To develop planning and cost norms and standards issued in terms of
Provincial Health Facilities Guidelines. Maintain planning and cost norms and
standards library. Monitor that Infrastructure projects implemented by
Implementing Agent (s) comply with approved planning and cost norms and
standards. Promote the adoption of technical and quality strategies. Review
cost determinations of projects and estimates submitted. Provide inputs from
quantity surveyor perspective to infrastructure policies, procedures, methods
and criteria for Capex, minor capital and scheduled maintenance projects,
Develop commissioning plans from a quantity surveyor perspective. Prepare
from a Quantity Surveyor perspective inputs to Project Briefing documents.
Prepare from a Quantity Surveyor perspective inputs to the Project Execution
Plan version 1. Develop cash flow projections. Develop costing models.
Provide inputs to the Annual Medium Term and Adjustment budgets to the
Directorate Infrastructure Delivery. Provide inputs to the User Asset
145
Management Plan from Quantity Surveyor perspective. Provide inputs to the
Infrastructure Programme Management Plan and Infrastructure Programme
Implementation Plan from the Quantity Surveyor perspective. Provide inputs to
the procurement strategy from a Quantity Surveyor perspective. Update the
Infrastructure comprehensive planning framework of Department in terms of
research findings, new technology and changes in the institutional
environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gwarube Tel No: (040) 608 1180
For e-Recruitment enquiries, email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 45/246 : CANDIDATE CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER: INFRASTRUCTURE
DELIVERY REF NO: ECHEALTH/CCPM-ID /HO/HFRG/13/12/2025
(5-Year Contract)
SALARY : R761 157 - R807 864 per annum, (OSD), an all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Head Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, a National Higher Diploma (Built Environment field)
with a minimum of eighteen months experience/ a National Diploma (Built
Environment field) with a minimum of two (2) years’ experience/ BTech
qualification (Built Environment field) with a minimum of one (1) year
experience/ An Honours degree in the Built Environment field of study.
Registered as Candidate Construction Project Manager with SACPCMP. A
valid driver’s license. Computer literate.
DUTIES : Assist to prepare the Procurement Strategy, Infrastructure Programme
Management Plan (IPMP) and updating of the plan. Assist to prepare the
infrastructure budget and final project list. Assist to prepare the
packages/individual project briefs; presenting these to the Implementing Agent
(IA) referred to as Project Execution Plan v1 with all the inputs obtained from
the Directorate Infrastructure Planning. Assist to monitor the implementation of
programmes and projects by Implementing Agent (IA) and the adherence to
the Service Delivery Agreement. Assist to manage project implementation of
projects that are not allocated to an Implementing Agent (IA). Assist to review
Variation Orders in terms of contract management practice and financial
implications in collaboration with professionals in the Directorate Infrastructure
Planning. Assist to develop Project Stage reports & designs in accordance with
strategic decision-making points as defined in the Provincial Infrastructure
Delivery Framework. Coordinate and participate in project commissioning,
including site visits. Review and Maintenance Plans and budgets on
completion of projects. Assist to review infrastructure projects and programmes
in line with the built environment norms, standards and legislative
requirements. Assist to participate in the continuous improvement of best
practices, standardised process and procedures, software applications and
tools. Update the Infrastructure policies of the Department in terms of research
findings, new technology and changes in the institutional environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gwarube Tel No: (040) 608 1180
For e-Recruitment enquiries, email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 45/247 : CANDIDATE ARCHITECT: INFRASTRUCTURE DELIVERY REF NO:
ECHEALTH/CA-ID /HO/HFRG/14/12/2025
(5 Year Contract)
SALARY : R660 612 - R701 148 per annum, (OSD), an all-inclusive package
CENTRE : HEad Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, an NQF Level 7 in Architecture and /or equivalent
qualification as recognised by SAQA with no previous experience required.
Registration with the South African Council for Architectural Professions
(SACAP) as a Candidate Architect. A valid driver’s license. Computer literate.
DUTIES : Assist to prepare the Procurement Strategy, Infrastructure Programme
Management Plan (IPMP) and updating of the plan. Assist to prepare the
infrastructure budget and final project list. Assist to prepare the
packages/individual project briefs; presenting these to the Implementing Agent
(IA) referred to as Project Execution Plan v1 with all the inputs obtained from
the Directorate Infrastructure Planning. Assist to monitor the implementation of
programmes and projects by Implementing Agent (IA) and the adherence to
the Service Delivery Agreement. Assist to manage project implementation of
146
projects that are not allocated to an Implementing Agent (IA). Assist to review
Variation Orders in terms of contract management practice and financial
implications in collaboration with professionals in the Directorate Infrastructure
Planning. Assist to develop Project Stage reports & designs in accordance with
strategic decision-making points as defined in the Provincial Infrastructure
Delivery Framework. Coordinate and participate in project commissioning,
including site visits. Review and Maintenance Plans and budgets on
completion of projects. Assist to review infrastructure projects and programmes
in line with the built environment norms, standards and legislative
requirements. Assist to participate in the continuous improvement of best
practices, standardised process and procedures, software applications and
tools. Update the Infrastructure policies of the Department in terms of research
findings, new technology and changes in the institutional environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gwarube Tel No: (040) 608 1180
For e-Recruitment enquiries, email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 45/248 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN: CIVIL REF NO: ECHEALTH/ET-C
/HO/HFRG/15/12/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R453 576 - R487 500 per annum, (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade B: R513 303 - R551 493 per annum, (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade C: R586 665 - R690 237 per annum, (OSD), an all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Head Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, a National Diploma in Engineering (Civil) or
equivalent relevant qualifications (Civil) coupled with three (3) years working
experience post qualification as an Engineering Technician Civil). Registration
with ECSA as an Engineering Technician (Civil). A valid driver’s Licence.
Computer literate.
DUTIES : To assist the Engineer with Technical activities. Promotes safety in line with
statutory and regulatory requirements. Evaluate existing maintenance
technical manuals, standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new
technology. Produce technical designs with specifications. Assist to manage
the execution of maintenance strategy through the provision of appropriate
structures systems and resources. Assist to set engineering maintenance and
standards, specifications and service levels according to organizational
objectives to ensure optimum operational availability. Design and establish a
system to collect credible data on the use of utilities by Health Facilities.
Provide training to Administrative Clerk on collection of data. Validate usage
and draft reports. Identify excessive usage. Assist to allocate, control, monitor
and report on all resources. Assist to compile risk logs and manage significant
risk according to sound risk management practice and organisational
requirements. Provide inputs into the budgeting process as require. Compile
and submit reports as required. Provide and consolidate inputs to technical
engineering operational plan. Continuous professional development to keep up
with new technologies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gwarube Tel No: (040) 608 1180
For e-Recruitment enquiries, email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 45/249 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN: ELECTRICAL (ENGINEERING &
TECHNICAL SERVICES DIRECTORATE) REF NO: ECHEALTH/ET-
EETS/HO/HFRG/16/12/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R453 576 - R487 500 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade B: R513 303 - R551 493 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade C: R586 665 - R690 237 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Head Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, A National Diploma in Engineering (Electrical) or
equivalent relevant qualifications (Electrical) coupled with three (3) years
working experience post qualification as an Engineering Technician
(Electrical). Registration with ECSA as an Engineering Technician (Electrical).
A valid driver’s Licence. Computer literate.
DUTIES : To assist the Engineer with Technical activities. Promotes safety in line with
statutory and regulatory requirements. Evaluate existing maintenance
technical manuals, standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new
technology. Produce technical designs with specifications. Assist to manage
147
the execution of maintenance strategy through the provision of appropriate
structures systems and resources. Assist to set engineering maintenance and
standards, specifications and service levels according to organizational
objectives to ensure optimum operational availability. Design and establish a
system to collect credible data on the use of utilities by Health Facilities.
Provide training to Administrative Clerk on collection of data. Validate usage
and draft reports. Identify excessive usage. Assist to allocate, control, monitor
and report on all resources. Assist to compile risk logs and manage significant
risk according to sound risk management practice and organisational
requirements. Provide inputs into the budgeting process as require. Compile
and submit reports as required. Provide and consolidate inputs to technical
engineering operational plan. Continuous professional development to keep up
with new technologies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gwarube Tel No: (040) 608 1180
For e-Recruitment enquiries, email to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
148
ANNEXURE S
PROFINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted strictly online at the following E-Recruitment
portal: http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 22 December 2025
NOTE : Kindly note that no payment of any kind is required when applying for posts
advertised by the Gauteng Department of Health. The Department reserves
the right not to fill any advertised posts. No hand-delivered, faxed, or emailed
applications will be accepted. For assistance with online applications, please
email your query to healthjobqueries@gauteng.gov.za. Applications should be
accompanied by a fully completed and signed new Z83 form obtainable from
any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The new Z83 form must be fully completed and
signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D
must be completed. Leave the following question blank if they are not in
possession of such: “If your profession or occupation requires official
registration, provide date and particulars of registration”. Applications without
proof of a new Z83 application form and a detailed CV will be disqualified.
Applicants must indicate the post reference number on their applications.
Shortlisted candidates will receive communication from the HR unit to submit
certified copies of educational qualifications and other relevant documents not
older than 6 months on or before the day of the interview. Personnel Suitability
Checks (criminal checks, citizenship checks, qualification verification,
company directorship, social media, financial record checks, reference checks)
must be conducted prior to appointment. Candidates in possession of a foreign
qualification must furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted.
Applicants with foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their
qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). The recommended candidate may be subjected to medical
surveillance as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act
5/1993. The Medical Supplies. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
The Gauteng Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment
Equity. People with disabilities, Coloured Males and Females, Indian Males
and Females, and White Males and Females are encouraged to apply.
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/250 : DEPUTY MANAGER PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES CONTRACT
MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/024111
Directorate: Contract Management
SALARY : R1 247 202 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Medical Supplies Depot
REQUIREMENTS : B. Pharm or equivalent qualification. Current registration with the South African
Pharmacy Council (SAPC) as a pharmacist. 7 years of appropriate experience
in management/supervisory roles in the pharmaceutical preferably in the
pharmaceutical supply chain. Specific experience in pharmaceutical
procurement and/ contract management of more than 2 years is required. A
postgraduate qualification in management will be added advantage. A good
understanding of the relevant legislation, National Drug Policy, the Essential
Drugs Programme, Public Finance Management Act, and Good Pharmacy
Practice relating to pharmaceutical services. Good verbal and written
communication and presentation skills. Sound leadership, analytical and
computer proficiency. Proven problem-solving and project management
experience, monitoring and evaluation and risk evaluation skills. Must be
achievement-driven and self-motivated. Extensive knowledge of
Pharmaceutical Services’ approaches, policies, and procedures. In-depth
knowledge and experience in the supervision of Pharmaceutical Services.
149
Understanding of the PFMA, Medicines and Related Substances Act, and
Pharmacy Act. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative prescripts
governing the Public Service, Pharmacy Practice and Control of Medicines.
Computer literacy. Excellent communication skills (verbal and written). Good
team building, problem-solving solving and leadership skills. Knowledge and
skills in managing quality improvement programmes. Sound knowledge and
understanding of the mandate of the Medical Supplies Depot.
DUTIES : To perform the duties of a pharmaceutical supply chain manager in accordance
with the PFMA, Medicines and Related Substances Act, Pharmacy Act, GPP
and GWP. Ensure compliance with the procurement unit supply chain
prescripts and other relevant legislation. Strengthen stakeholder and staff
engagement to improve performance and service delivery. Facilitate the
development and maintenance of internal control procedures to mitigate
identified risks in the unit. Ensure the effective and efficient use of resources.
Represent pharmaceutical services at relevant meetings and to serve on
various committees and participate in relevant forums in the depot. Coordinate
training programmes for Pharmacy assistants, Pharmacist Interns and other
support personnel. Develop protocols, standard operating procedures, and
guidelines for efficient and cost-effective pharmaceutical services. Supervise
pharmacists and pharmacist assistants, maintain discipline and deal with
grievances and Labour Relations issues in terms of the laid down procedures
and policies, and implement the Performance Management and Development
system. Compiling reports for submission to MSD management on a monthly
and quarterly basis.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Langa Tel No: (011) 628 9002
POST 45/251 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT BASIC REF NO: REFS/02417 (X3 POSTS)
Directorate: Pharmaceutical Services - Warehouse
SALARY : R215 0123 per annum, plus benefits
CENTRE : Medical Supplies Depot
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate and qualification as a Basic Pharmacist Assistant. Active
Registration as a Basic Pharmacist Assistant with the South African pharmacy
council. Knowledge and experience in Warehousing, logistics, Supply chain
Management, transportation, and the Hospital Pharmacy sector as well as
computer literacy will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Receiving of stock from suppliers according to standard operating procedures,
Good Distribution Practice and Good Pharmacy practice standards: offloading
trucks and moving stock into the appropriate quarantine area, moving of stock
to storage areas and packing stock on correct shelves according to FEFO and
FIFO. Stock rotation and participating in stock takes. Issuing of ordered stock
according to scope of practice to Health Facilities in Gauteng Province. Moving
of roll-trainers to the dispatch area.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. C Ramaphakela Tel No: (011) 628-9046
DEPARTMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Infrastructure Development is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is
intended to promote representivity through the filling of these posts. The candidature of persons whose
appointment/transfer/promotion will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : To apply for the below position, please apply online at
https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. Only online applications will be considered and for
general enquiries please contact Human Resource on 076 521 4118.
CLOSING DATE : 22 December 2025
NOTE : In line with the Department’s Employment Equity Plan, People with disabilities
are encouraged to apply. Applicants must complete the online Z83 and attach
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV). All other documents are submitted by
shortlisted candidates). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Only shortlisted candidates will be requested to submit certified copies of
qualifications not older than six (06) months, identity document and valid
driver’s license (where driving/travelling is an inherent requirement of the job).
It is our intention to promote representivity (race, gender and disability) in the
Public Service through the filling of this post and candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity will receive
150
preference. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity through the filling
of all numeric targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate
this process successfully, an indication of race, gender and disability status is
required. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The
Department reserves the right not to appoint. If you do not receive any
response from us within 3 months, please accept your application was
unsuccessful.
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/252 : ENGINEER PRODUCTION: ELECTRICAL GRADE A-C (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R879 342 - R1 323 267 per annum, (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion of 30% that
may be structured in terms of applicable rules. Which includes state’s
contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary). The offer is based on recognition of experience after obtaining
registration. (Proof of recognized experience will be requested from the
shortlisted candidates).
CENTRE : Head Office (Johannesburg):
Chief Directorate: Education (Technical Portfolio Service) Ref No:
REFS/024214
Directorate: Research and Green Technology Ref No: REFS/024215
Chief Directorate: Engineering Services Ref No: REFS/024216
REQUIREMENTS : An Engineering Degree in Electrical (B Eng / BSC (Eng) or equivalent
qualification. A minimum of 3 years’ post qualification experience in
Engineering is required. Must be a registered as a Professional Engineer with
ECSA. Must have a valid driver’s license. Competencies: Public Service Act of
1994. Public Service Regulations, 2016. PFMA and Treasury Regulations.
Provincial/Departmental SCM policies. Government Immovable Asset
Management Act of 2007. National Building Standards Act of 1977 and
Regulations. Occupational Health and Safety Act of 1993 and Regulations.
Health Act, Regulations and Guidelines. National Environmental Management
Act of 1998. Engineering Profession Act of 2000. Engineering design and
analysis Programme and project management. Computer-aided engineering
applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Skills- Decision making, Team
leadership, Analytical, Creativity, Self-management, Financial management,
Customer focus and responsiveness, Communication, Computer literacy
Conflict management, Problem solving, Research, Technical report writing and
Networking.
DUTIES : Plan, design, operate and maintain engineering projects. Develop cost
effective solutions according to standards. Evaluate existing technical
manuals, standard drawings and procedures to corporate new technology.
Develop tender specifications. Ensure through evaluation that planning and
design by others is done according to sound engineering works according to
norms and standards and code of practice and approve engineering works
according to prescribed norms and standards. Ensure training and
development of technicians, technologists and candidate engineers to promote
skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound engineering principles and
code of practice. Supervise the engineering work and process and administer
performance management and development. Manage resources and prepare
and consolidate inputs for the facilitation of resource utilization. Ensure
adherence to regulations and procedures for procurement and personnel
administration. Monitor, control expenditure and service report on expenditure
and service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Sikelelwa Mboto at 076 942 4090/ 076 521 4118
POST 45/253 : ENGINEER PRODUCTION: STRUCTURAL/ CIVIL GRADE A-C REF NO:
REFS/024218
Chief Directorate: Education, Infrastructure, Maintenance and Technical
Portfolio
Services: Portfolio Technical Services
SALARY R879 342 - R1 323 267 per annum, (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion of 30% that
may be structured in terms of applicable rules. Which includes state’s
151
contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary). The offer is based on recognition of experience after obtaining
registration. (Proof of recognized experience will be requested from the
shortlisted candidates).
CENTRE : Head Office (Johannesburg)
REQUIREMENTS : An Engineering Degree in Structural/Civil (B Eng / BSC (Eng) or equivalent
qualification. A minimum of 3 years’ post qualification experience in
Engineering is required. Must be a registered as a Professional Engineer with
ECSA. Must have a valid driver’s license. Competencies: Public Service Act of
1994. Public Service Regulations, 2016. PFMA and Treasury Regulations.
Provincial/Departmental SCM policies. Government Immovable Asset
Management Act of 2007. National Building Standards Act of 1977 and
Regulations. Occupational Health and Safety Act of 1993 and Regulations.
Health Act, Regulations and Guidelines. National Environmental Management
Act of 1998. Engineering Profession Act of 2000. Engineering design and
analysis Programme and project management. Computer-aided engineering
applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Skills- Decision making, Team
leadership, Analytical, Creativity, Self-management, Financial management,
Customer focus and responsiveness, Communication, Computer literacy
Conflict management, Problem solving, Research, Technical report writing and
Networking.
DUTIES : Plan, design, operate and maintain engineering projects. Develop cost
effective solutions according to standards. Evaluate existing technical
manuals, standard drawings and procedures to corporate new technology.
Develop tender specifications. Ensure through evaluation that planning and
design by others is done according to sound engineering works according to
norms and standards and code of practice and approve engineering works
according to prescribed norms and standards. Ensure training and
development of technicians, technologists and candidate engineers to promote
skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound engineering principles and
code of practice. Supervise the engineering work and process and administer
performance management and development. Manage resources and prepare
and consolidate inputs for the facilitation of resource utilization. Ensure
adherence to regulations and procedures for procurement and personnel
administration. Monitor, control expenditure and service report on expenditure
and service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Sikelelwa Mboto at 076 942 4090/ 076 521 4118
POST 45/254 : CHIEF ARTISAN GRADE A: ELECTRICAL/MECHANICAL REF NO:
REFS/024212
Chief Directorate: Maintenance
SALARY : R455 223 - R729 783 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Leratong Facility Maintenance Hub
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Minimum of 10 years’ experience post
qualification as an Artisan/Artisan Foreman (Proof of recognized experience
will be requested for shortlisted applicants). Computer literacy. A valid driver’s
license. Competencies: Knowledge of the National Building Regulation and
Building Standards Act No 103 of 1977, Regulations and Municipal
Regulations, Promotion of Access to Information Act of 2000, Promotion of
Administrative Justice Act of 2000. Government Immovable Asset
Management Act of 2007 and Occupational Health and Safety Act of 1993 and
Regulations Skills- Planning and organizing, verbal and written communication
and computer literacy skills.
DUTIES : Manage technical personnel. Manage Division Meetings. Manage job
assessments for the Division. Manage material requirements for the Division.
Manage availability of tools and materials for the Division. Manage client
interaction and relations. Manage scheduling of work. Manage the overall
productivity of the Division. Manage the development of maintenance
schedules Enforce compliance for the keeping of maintenance schedules and
records. Undertake research and literature studies. Apply research findings in
the work environment. Sign performance based on approved Job Descriptions,
Strategic and Annual Performance Plans of the Department. Manage human
resources and maintain discipline. Manage the provision of equipment required
by personnel for achievement of outputs in their respective Job Descriptions.
Manage skills transfer between personnel and outside technical assistants
and/or consultants. Plan and allocate work responsibilities and processes to
152
control work performance including quality assurance. Manage staff
performance and Development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Sikelelwa Mboto at 076 942 4090/ 076 521 4118
POST 45/255 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A-C: CARPENTER REF NO:
REFS/024213
Directorate: Facilities Maintenance Services
SALARY : R243 597 – R408 048 per annum, (plus benefits). The offer is based on
recognition of experience after a Trade test certificate. (Proof of recognized
experience will be requested for shortlisted applicants).
CENTRE : Head office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Trade Test Certificate. A minimum of 0-2 years of experience.
A valid driver’s License. Competencies: Knowledge of Public Service
Legislation, Policies and Regulations. Knowledge of OHS Act. Knowledge of
the Departmental policies, strategies and procedures. Computer-aided
technical applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Skills: Technical report
writing. Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Teamwork. Creativity.
Analytical. Self-management. Communication and Computer skills. Planning
and organising skills.
DUTIES : Produce designs according to client specifications and within limits of
production capability. Produce objects with material and equipment according
to job specifications and recognised standards. Render quality assurance of
produced objects. Inspect equipment and/or facilities for technical faults.
Repair equipment and facilities according to standards. Test repair equipment
and/or facilities against specifications. Service equipment and/or facilities
according to schedule. Render quality assurance of serviced and maintained
equipment and/or facilities. Compile and submit reports. Provide inputs to the
operational plan. Keep and maintain job record/register. Supervise and mentor
staff. Keep up with new technologies and procedures for continuous individual
development.
ENQUERIES : Ms. Sikelelwa Mboto at 076 942 4090/ 076 521 4118
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
It is the department’s intention to promote equity through the filling of all numeric targets as contained in
the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication
of race, gender and disability status is required.
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted on a duly New signed Z83 form,
comprehensive CV only shortlisted candidates will submit certified documents.
All applications should be emailed to Mohale.Ramahlo@gauteng.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 23 December 2025, at 00:00 midnight
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on new z83 form, obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The
Completed and signed form should be accompanied by a recently updated CV
specifying all experience indicating the respective dates (MM/YY) as well as
indicating three reference persons with the following information: name and
contact number(s), email address and an indication of the capacity in which the
reference is known to the candidate. The copies of qualifications, ID, drivers’
license and relevant certificates need not be certified when applying for the
post. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents
on or before the interview date following communication from HR. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal record,
citizen, credit record checks, qualification and employment verification).
Confirmation of final appointment may be subject to a positive security
clearance. All non-SA citizens must attach a certified proof of permanent
residence in South Africa only when shortlisted. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Failure to submit all the requested documents
will result in the application not being considered. SMS candidates will be
required to undergo a Competency Assessment as prescribed by the DPSA.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Gauteng Provincial
Treasury (GPT) reserves the right to utilise practical exercises / tests for non-
SMS positions and during the recruitment process (candidates who are
153
shortlisted will be informed accordingly) to determine the suitability of
candidates for the post(s). GPT also reserves the right to cancel the filling / not
to fill a vacancy that was advertised during any stage of the recruitment
process. Prospective applicants must please use the new Z83 which is
effective as at 01 January 2021, should an application be received using the
incorrect application for employment (Z83) form, it will not be considered. You
need to fill in all sections of this form completely, accurately and legibly.
OTHER POST
POST 45/256 : GAUTENG PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT INVOICE RESOLUTION
COMMITTEE MEMBER REF NO: 13/5/5
Term of office: The appointment is for a period of three (3) years subject to
renewal at the discretion of the Department. The appointment will be supported
by the Invoice Resolution Committee Charter and signing of a contract.
SALARY : GPG Invoice Resolution Committee Members will be remunerated in
accordance with the Treasury Regulation 20.2.2, members of a Committee of
Inquiry must be remunerated according to scales determined by the National
Treasury. Members will be remunerated for preparation and attendance of
meetings.
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification and a postgraduate qualification at the NQF level
8, recognized by SAQA in Law and Public/ Business Administration or related
fields with these subjects Auditing, Accounting, Risk, Economics and Business
Management 8-10 years’ relevant experience in senior managerial level. public
administration or finance, legal mediation, or financial management, legal
advisory, financial Governance. Understanding of PFMA and Supplier Chain
Management process Proven track record in dispute resolution, mediation,
conflict and committee management. Required attributes and skills:
Independence, integrity, reliability, good communication and interpersonal
skills and leadership skills.
DUTIES : Provide guidance to the Executive, Accounting Officers, and Management
regarding outstanding invoices and governance matters. Serve as an
independent advisor to all GPG Departments on issues related to outstanding
invoices, risk management, accounting policies, financial and non-financial
information, effective governance, and compliance with applicable legislation
and regulations. Adjudicate disputes concerning invoices between
departments and service providers, and mediate conflicts involving
departments, main contractors, and subcontractors. Participate as a member
or chairperson of the invoice resolution committee. Attend meetings as
necessary and remain flexible with scheduling. Perform duties in accordance
with the approved Charter and review the adequacy and effectiveness of the
Department’s internal controls.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Jafta Mhlongo/ Mr. Cecil Koeberg at 082 256 0860/ 083 955 7112
154
ANNEXURE T
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/257 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADES 1 – 3 REF NO: PMMH 04/2025 (X1 POST)
Component: Orthopaedic
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 – R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 – R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 – R2 212 680 per annum
(All-inclusive packages, consist of 70% basic salary and 30% flexible portion
that may be structured in terms of applicable rules. Other Benefits In-
Hospitable Area Allowance (18% of basic salary) Commuted overtime
(conditions apply) / the incumbent in the post would be required to enter into a
performance contract for commuted overtime.
CENTRE : Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate or Equivalent. MBCHB degree or equivalent qualification plus
appropriate qualification that allows for registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in a normal specialty (Orthopaedic).
Certificate of registration with Health Professions Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Orthopaedic. Current (2025) registration
as a Medical Specialist with HPCSA. Grade 1: No experience required.
Registrars who have completed their training may also apply on condition that
their appointment will be subject to them submitting documentary evidence of
registration with the Health Professions of South Africa. Grade 2: Further to
the minimum requirements mentioned herein, the appointment to Grade 2
requires 5 years’ appropriate experience after registration with HPCSA as
Medical Specialist in Orthopaedic. Grade 3: Further to the minimum
requirements mentioned herein, the appointment to Grade 3 requires 10 years’
appropriate experience after registration with HPCSA as Medical Specialist in
Orthopaedic. Knowledge, Skills Training and Competencies Required: Sound
knowledge and experience in the Orthopaedics. Knowledge of current health
and public service legislation, regulations and policies including medical ethics,
epidemiology and statistics. Good Communication, leadership, decision-
making and clinical skills. Ability to teach junior doctors and participate in
continuing professional development Comprehensive knowledge of specialty
Discipline.
DUTIES : Provide safe, ethical and high quality of care through the development of
standards and risk assessments in clinical and customer care (patient
perspective) in the respective specialty. Provide a full package of services
including after hour services. Develop, maintain and audit the correct
implementation of clinical protocols and guidelines Implement and maintain an
efficient, effective and seamless service delivery process within the Institution
and referring facilities. Plan and provide continuous medical education to
multidisciplinary team members, conduct and stimulate research. Manage and
direct performance of junior staff within the area of control. Align clinical service
delivery plans with hospital plans and priorities. Provide Specialist services and
support to the Clinical Head of Unit. Ensure Compliance with Norms and
Standards as prescribed by Office of Health Standards Compliance (OHSC).
Participate in the continued medical education programme in the institution.
Manage EPMDS of junior staff. Participate in the extended management
activities. Develop, Implement and monitor quality improvement programmes.
Develop and participate in the outreach programme. Ensure a functional
referral system. Actively participate in the academic programme run by the
Department of Health for the postgraduate training of Registrars. Clinical
teaching of undergraduate and postgraduate students. Engage in academic
research culminating in the publication of papers in scientific journals or the
presentation of the results of such research at scientific congresses.
Competence in the clinical evaluation of patients, Interpretation of special
investigations within the Discipline. Render efficient and cost-effective services
to patients managed by the institution. Ensure Clinical Governance within the
Discipline. Deliver an effective and efficient administration of all resources
allocated to the Discipline. Assist the Head of Clinical Unit (HCU) to ensure an
optimal delivery of Services within the Discipline. Assist HCU in the
155
development of management protocols/policies for Department – Discipline.
Assist with Quality Improvement imperatives including Clinical Audits
(morbidity and mortality reporting and reviewing, clinical documentation audits
etc.) and continuous professional development activities. Maintain satisfactory
clinical professional and ethical standards in the department Engage in
research and supervise registrar research. Partake in outreach programmes of
the DOH. After hours participation in call roasters.
ENQUIRIES : Dr R Magagula Tel No: (031) 907 8319
APPLICATIONS : To be forwarded to: The Human Resource Manager OR Hand deliver to A-
Block 1st Floor white applications box. Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital
Private Bag X07, Mobeni, 4060. Applications may also be emailed to:
Mxolisi.Mlambo@kznhealth.gov.za quoting reference number only in the
subject line. Emailed applications should please be sent as one attachment.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr. M.F Mlambo
NOTE : Directions to Candidates: The applicant must submit a fully completed Z83
form and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV) only. Only shortlisted candidates will
be required to submit proof of all documents and Certificate of Service
endorsed by Human Resources The official Z83 form ‘Application for
employment’ (the new amended version of the Z83 form effectively from
01/01/2021 must be used only; the old Z83 form will be rejected, if used). The
amended Z83 application for employment form is obtainable at any
Government Department OR downloaded from the website –
www.kznhealth.qov.za or www.dpsa.gov.za-vacansies.The ‘Reference
Number’ and ‘Position’ for which are applying (as stated in the advert) must be
clearly indicated in the columns provided on the form Z 83 e.g. Reference
number PMMH 04/2025. For those with internet access, the online e-
Recruitment system is accessible through a computer or mobile device i.e.,
Phone or Tablet. The system has the following functionality: All adverts are
available for viewing by the public through the address
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs Applicants will be required to register on the
system by providing a username and password. Applicants require a mobile
phone number and a valid email address to register and will be guided through
the registration process by the system. Applicants must update their profile on
the system, which is in line with the approved Z83 application form. Applicants
will be able to upload a copy of their Curriculum Vitae (CV), and the system
makes provision for the uploading of other documents such as Identity
Documents, Driver’s License, Qualifications, etc. The appointment is subject to
positive outcome obtained from the NIA to the following checks (security
clearance, credit records, qualification, citizenship and previous experience
verifications). The successful candidate would be required to sign a
performance agreement within three months of appointment. Please note that
due to the high number of applications anticipated, applications will not be
acknowledged. Correspondence will be limited to short listed candidates only.
If you have not been contacted within two months after the closing date of the
advertisement, consider your application as unsuccessful, please. Persons
with disabilities from all designated race groups are encouraged to apply for
the post. Please note that no S&T payments will be considered for payment to
candidates who are invited for interviews. It is the shortlisted candidate’s
responsibility to have a foreign qualification, which is a requirement of the post,
evaluated by the South Africans Qualifications authority (SAQA). Failure to
comply will result in the application not being considered The Department
reserves the right not to fill the post/s. Failure to comply with the above
instructions will disqualify applicants. (This Department is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote representivity in all levels
of all occupational categories in the Department.)
CLOSING DATE : 22 December 2025
POST 45/258 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST (OBSTETRIC & GYNAECOLOGY) REF NO: NE
01/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 – R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 – R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 – R2 212 680 per annum
(All-inclusive salary packages, which consist of 70% basic salary and 30%
flexible portion that may be structured in terms of applicable rules). Other
benefits: - Commuted Overtime (Conditions applies).
CENTRE : Newcastle Regional Hospital
156
REQUIREMENTS : Senior certificate/ Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Appropriate tertiary qualification in the Health Science (MBChB)
an appropriate qualification that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in Obstetrics & Gynaecology. Registration with the HPCSA
as a Medical Specialist in O&G. Current HPCSA registration 2025/2026. Grade
1: No experience required. Registrars who have completed their training may
also apply on condition that their appointment will be subjected to them
submitting documentary evidence of registration with the HPCSA. Grade 2: In
addition to the requirements for a Grade 1 specialist post, a minimum of five
(05) years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in O&G is required for appointment as a grade 2 specialist. Grade
3: In addition to the requirements for a Grade 1 specialist post, a minimum of
ten (10) years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in O&G is required for appointment as a grade 3 specialist.
Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies Required: Sound knowledge
and experience in O&G. knowledge of current health and public service
legislation, regulations and policies including medical ethics, epidemiology and
statistics. Good communication, leadership, decision-making and clinical skills.
Ability to teach junior doctors and participate in continuing professional
development.
DUTIES : Provide safe, ethical and high quality of care through the development of
standards and risk assessments in clinical and customer care (patient
perspective) in the respective specialty. Provide a full package of services
including after hour services. Develop, maintain and audit the correct
implementation of clinical protocols and guidelines. Implement and maintain an
efficient, effective and seamless service delivery process within the institution
referring facilities. Plan and provide continuous medical education to
multidisciplinary team members, conduct and stimulate research. Manage and
direct performance of junior staff within the area of control. Align clinical service
delivery plans with the hospital plans and priorities. Provide specialist services
and support to the Clinical Head of Unit. Ensure compliance with norms and
standards as prescribed by the Office of Health Standards Compliance
(OHSC). Participate in the continued medical education programme in the
institution. Manage EPMDS of junior staff. Participate in extended
management activities. Develop, implement and monitor quality improvement
programmes. Develop and participate in the outreach programme. Ensure a
functional referral system. Actively participate in the academic programme run
by the Department of Health for the post graduate training of registrars. Clinical
teaching of undergraduates and post graduate students. Engage in academic
research culminating in the publication of papers in scientific journals or the
presentation of results of such research at a scientific congresses. The
incumbent should have; comprehensive knowledge of specialty discipline.
Competence in the clinical evaluation of patients, interpretation of special
investigations within the discipline. Render efficient and cost effective services
to patients managed by the institution. Ensure Clinical Governance within the
discipline. Deliver an effective and efficient administration of all resources
allocated to the discipline. Assist the Head of Clinical Unit (HCU) to ensure an
optimal delivery services within the discipline. Assist HCU in the development
of management protocols/ policies for department-discipline. Assist with quality
improvement imperatives including Clinical Audits (morbidity and mortality
reporting and reviewing, clinical documentation audits etc). And continuous
professional development activities. Maintain satisfactory clinical professional
and ethical standards in the department. Engage in research and supervise
registrar research. Partake in outreach programmes of DOH. After hours
participation in call rosters.
ENQURIES : Dr. JJN Duze Tel No: (034) 328 0000
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be posted to: The Recruitment Officer, Newcastle
Regional Hospital, Private Bag X6653, Newcastle, 2940 or can be emailed to
Tholakele.Nyandeni@kznhealth.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : The Recruitment Officer
NOTE : This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose
aim is to promote representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the
Department. Note: The contents of this Circular Minute must be brought to the
notice of all eligible officers and employees on your establishment of all
Institutions. Institutions must notify all candidates who qualify for post in this
circular minute even if they are absent from their normal places of work to
157
apply. Direction to Candidates: the following documents must be submitted:
Application for Employment form (Z83) which is obtainable from any
Government Department OR from the website - www.kznhealth.gov.za. The
application form (Z83) must be accompanied by a detailed Curriculum Vitae,
Certified copies of ID, Highest educational qualification and other relevant
documents will be requested for submission only from shortlisted candidates.
The reference number must be indicated in the column provided on the form
Z83 and on the back of the envelope, e.g. NE01/2020. NB: Failure to comply
with the above instructions will be disqualify applicants. Person with disabilities
should feel free to apply for the post. The appointment is subject to positive
outcome obtained from the NIA the following checks (security clearance, credit
records, qualification, citizenship and previous experience employment
verification). Due to the large number of applications, receipt of applications
will not be acknowledged. However, correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. Please note that due to financial constraint no S&T
claims will be considered for payment to the candidates that are invited for an
interview. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 December 2025
158
ANNEXURE U
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant references applications should be forwarded to the
relevant District
Capricorn North: The District Director Capricorn North Education District
Private Bag X9711, Polokwane, 0700 Cnr Blaauwberg & Yster Street Ladanna,
Polokwane.
Capricorn South: The District Director Capricorn South Education District
Private Bag X03, cChueniespoort, 0745. Old Parliament Complex.
Lebowakgomo: The District Director Sekhukhune South Education District
Private Bag X70, Lebowakgomo, 0737. Old Parliament Complex
Lebowakgomo.
Mogalakwena Education District: The District Director Private Bag X601,
Mahwelereng, 0626. 805 Rufus, Seakamela Street, Mahwelereng, 0626.
Mopani East: Education District, Private Bag X578, Giyani, 0826. Old
Parliament Building, Giyani.
Mopani West: The District Director Mopani West Education District Private
Bag X4032, Tzaneen, 0850. 27 Peace Street, Prosperitas Building, Tzaneen,
0850.
Sekhukhune East: The Acting District Director, Sekhukhune East Education
District, Private Bag X9041, Burgersfort, 1150. 83 Aloe Street, Stand No 2314,
Ext 4 Aloeridge West, Burgersfort, 1150.
Sekhukhune South Education District: The District Director, Private Bag
X70, Lebowakgomo, 0737. Old Parliament Complex, Lebowakgomo.
Vhembe East: The Acting District Director, Vhembe East, Education District
Private Bag X2250, Sibasa, 0970. Makwarela, Old Parliament Building.
Vhembe West: The District Director Vhembe West Education District Private
Bag X2250, Sibasa, 0970. Block D, Old Parliament Building Thohoyandou.
Waterberg: The Acting District Director, Waterberg Education District, Private
Bag X1040, Modimolle, 051084. Limpopo Street, NTK Building, Modimolle,
0510.
Applications submitted via e-Recruitment system through the link a
https://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026 (Applications received after the closing date and faxed copies
will not be considered).
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed form Z83 (obtainable from
any Public Service Department office i.e. effective 01 January 2021 or on the
DPSA web site link: https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/. Should an
application be received using incorrect application employment form Z83, it will
be disqualified, which must be originally signed and dated by the applicant, and
which must be accompanied by a detailed CV only (with full particulars of the
applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge & experience).
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
which should not be older than six months. Failure to comply with the above
instructions will result in applications being disqualified. Applicants applying for
more than one post must submit a separate form Z83 (as well as the
documentation mentioned above) in respect of each post being applied for. If
an applicant wishes to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing.
Should an application be received where an applicant applies for more than
one post on the same applications form, the application will only be considered
for the first post indicated on the application and not for any of the other posts.
Under no circumstances will Photostat copies or faxed copies of application
documents be accepted. The successful candidates will be subjected to
Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset
record checks and qualification and employment verification). Successful
candidates will also be subjected to security clearance processes. Applicants
who do not receive confirmation or feedback within 3 (three) months after the
closing date, please consider your application unsuccessful. Due to the large
volume of responses anticipated, receipt of applications will not be
acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates
159
only. For more information on the job description(s) please contact the person
indicated in the post details. The contents of the advertised post will also be
posted on the following websites www.limpopo.gov.za/ www.edu.gov.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment to the posts advertised. The employment decision shall be
informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POST
POST 45/259 : DRIVER/MESSENGER (X33 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Sekhukhune South, Asiphumelele Special School: Ref No: LDoE 53/10/2025
(X1 Post)
Capricorn South, Bana – Ba - Thari Special School: Ref No: LDoE 54/10/2025
(X1 Post)
Capricorn South, Benedict & Hope Special School: Ref No: LDoE 55/10/2025
(X1 Post)
Capricorn North, Botlokwa Special School: Ref No: LDoE 57/10/2025 (X2
Posts)
Vhembe East, Fulufhelo Special School: Ref No: LDoE 58/10/2025 (X4 Posts)
Capricorn South, Grace and Hope Special School: Ref No: LDoE 59/10/2025
(X4 Posts)
Vhembe East, Grace and Love Special School: Ref No: LDoE 60/10/2025 (X1
Post)
Sekhukhune South, Ipelegeng Special School: Ref No: LDoE 61/10/2025 (X1
Post)
Sekhukhune East, Jane Furse Special School: Ref No: LDoE 62/10/2025 (X1
Post)
Mogalakwena, Lebone Special School: Ref No: LDoE 63/10/2025 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune South, Matobule Special School: Ref No: LDoE 64/10/2025 (X1
Post)
Capricorn South, Mahlasedi Special School: Ref No: LDoE 65/10/2025 (X2
Posts)
Mopani East, Nthabiseng Special School: Ref No: LDoE 66/10/2025 (X1 Post)
Mopani East, Pfunanani Special School: Ref No: LDoE 67/10/2025 (X1 Post)
Mopani East, Ramokgwakgwa Special School: Ref No: LDoE 68/10/2025 (X2
Posts)
Capricorn North, Ratanang Special School: Ref No: LDoE 69/10/2025 (X1
Post)
Sekhukhune East, Rehlahleng Special School: Ref No: LDoE 70/10/2025 (X1
Post)
Capricorn North, Rethuseng Special School: Ref No: LDoE 71/10/2025 (X1
Post)
Waterberg, Sedibeng Special School: Ref No: LDoE 72/10/2025 (X1 Post)
Waterberg, Suzan Strijdom Special School: Ref No: LDoE 73/10/2025 (X1
Post)
Vhembe West, Tshilwavhusiku Razwimisani Special School: Ref No: LDoE
74/10/2025 (X1 Post)
Capricorn South, Tsoga - O – Itirele Special School: Ref No: LDoE 75/10/2025
(X1 Post)
Vhembe West, Rivoni Special School: Ref No: LDoE 76/10/2025 (X1 Post)
Waterberg, Thusanang Special School: Ref No: LDoE 77/10/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. Valid Code 10 driver’s license with PDP. 03 years’ bus driving
experience will be an added advantage. Driver’s competency test will be
conducted before appointment.
DUTIES : Responsible to transport learners in Special Schools to and from school by
following designated routes and schedule. Follow traffic laws. Capable to
communicate with learners, parents and school staff. Assist learners in safe
loading and off - loading learners. Inform school’s personnel, parents of
incidents to maintain proper procedures. Performs pre - and post - trip
inspection. Supervise learners during transit for the purpose of maintaining
safety and following Departmental policies. Conduct safety and operational
160
inspection of assigned vehicle daily Reports needed mechanical repairs when
necessary Performs periodical safety drills as required by law, completing
necessary reports upon request. Delivery and collections: Collect and deliver
documents, correspondence, mail, packages, and other items from places
such as the post office, other departments, and external stakeholders.
Purchase and loading: buying and loading equipment’s, groceries for the
institution. Health support: Taking learners to clinic and hospitals. Route
Planning: Plan and follow the most efficient routes using maps or GPS to
ensure timely delivery and avoid traffic delays. Vehicle Maintenance: Perform
pre-trip and post-trip inspections, ensure the vehicle is fuelled, clean, and well-
maintained, and report any issues or arrange for necessary repairs. Record
Keeping: Complete and maintain all required records and logbooks regarding
trips, mileage, fuel consumption, and goods handled. General Support: Assist
with general office or clerical work, such as filing, making photocopies, running
errands, or assisting with loading and unloading items. Customer Service:
Interact with clients and customers in a professional and courteous manner,
potentially collecting payments or obtaining signatures for deliveries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mr Molope
KS at 081 660 3991, Mesdames Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at
081 550 2664 and Maupi MJ at 081 530 8921.
161
ANNEXURE V
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
It is the strategic intent of the Department to promote employment equity in terms of race, gender and
disability through the filling of these posts with candidates whose transfer, promotion or appointment
will promote equitable representativity in line with the numeric targets as contained in the departmental
Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : Fully completed and signed Z83 employment application form, quoting
reference number should be addressed to the Head: Economic Development
and Tourism. Applications can be hand delivered to Nokuthula Simelane
Building, 1st Floor, No 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside Park, Extension 02
Mbombela 1201 or alternatively applications emailed to the respective email
address provided for each post.
CLOSING DATE : 22 December 2025 @ 16h00
NOTE : It is compulsory to fill all fields on the New Amended Z83 Form (No.81/971431)
as prescribed with effect from 01 January 2021, which must be signed, initialled
and dated. The form is obtainable at any National or Provincial Department(s),
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applicants must indicate the Post,
Reference Number on the Z83 Form application. The new Z83 Form must be
accompanied by a recent updated curriculum vitae with full personal details,
experience, including three (3) names of contactable referees and it is the
applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by SAQA
and to provide proof of such evaluation report (only when shortlisted). The
question related to conditions that prevents re-appointment under Part F must
be answered by applicants who were previously appointed in the public
service. Applications received after closing date will, as a rule not be accepted.
Only shortlisted candidates for the post will be required to submit certified
documents on or before the day of the interviews. It will be expected of
candidate(s) to be available for interview process on a date, time and place as
determined by the Department. Shortlisted candidate(s) will also be subjected
to practical assessments, will be required to undergo personal suitability
checks, which include criminal records, citizenship, financial credits/assets,
qualifications verification and previous employment background/reference
checks will be verified. Candidates will be subject to security screening and
vetting. Applicants must disclose if she/he is not a Director/Shareholder of a
company or conducting any business with Organ of State and whether is
performing any additional remunerative work outside his/her normal duties.
The successful candidate will enter into an Annual Performance Agreement,
and also annually disclose his/her financial interest. The Department reserves
the right not to make appointment. Candidates requiring additional information
regarding advertised post must direct their enquiries to the relevant person
indicated. Communication and correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months after
the closing date, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. SMS Posts: The
requirements for appointment at Senior Management Service level include the
successful completion of Senior Management Pre-entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government, which can be accessed using
the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/. Candidates must provide proof of successful completion of the
course prior to appointment. Following the interview and technical exercise(s),
the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Core competencies:
Strategic capacity and leadership. People management and empowerment.
Advanced programme and project management. Change management.
Financial management. Process Competencies: Knowledge management.
Service Delivery Innovation. Advanced problem-solving and analysis. Client
orientation and customer focus. Advanced communication skills (written and
verbal). The successful candidate will be appointed subject to positive results
162
of a pre-employment screening process which includes criminal records and
verification of educational qualification certificates. Candidates requiring
additional information regarding advertised post must direct their enquiries to
the relevant person indicated. Communication and correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within
three (3) months after the closing date, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to make appointment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/260 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (MR6) REF NO: DEDT
2025/26/06
(Please note that this post is re-advertised and applicants who applied
previously are encouraged to re-apply)
SALARY : R586 956 - R1 386 972 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Head Office: Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate SAQA recognized LLB Degree with at least 8 years appropriate
post qualification legal experience. Experience in management of litigation and
internal appeals, ability to draft legal documents and ability to draft primary and
secondary legislation and interpretation thereof. Knowledge and understanding
of legislation administered by the Department, as well as legislation that
impacts on the functions being performed in the Department, knowledge of the
South African Constitutional Law. Knowledge and understanding of legislative
drafting process and rules. Good communication (written and verbal),
interpersonal, planning, organisational, problem solving and research skills. A
valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Facilitate and Render legal advisory services on diverse legal issues to the
MEC, the HOD and officials of the Department. Conduct research that will
provide information and case law relevant to the legal matter at hand and
present motivation/ proposals on how the specific case should be approached
to obtain a desirable/ justifiable outcome/ result. Manage litigation instituted by
and against the Department, Conduct Legislative review, drafting of Bills,
subordinate legislation and regulations. Provide legal support, advice, drafting
and vetting of contracts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. LP Mabaso Tel No: (013) 766 4424
APPLICATIONS : Email to recruitmentdedt3@mpg.gov.za
POST 45/261 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO:
DEDT/2025/26/22
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate SAQA recognized NQF level six (6) tertiary qualification in
Accounting/Financial Accounting/Financial Management with three (3) years
relevant work experience in final payments/creditors payments/salary
administration. Sound reasoning, mathematical, accounting and problem-
solving ability. Basic working knowledge of computer systems in the Public
Service/Private Sector, including PERSAL, BAS, Invoice Tracking System, MS
Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook. Well-developed verbal and written
communications skills, very conscientious and motivated towards producing
effective, efficient and correct work and always aiming for a zero-defect
environment. Ability to effectively function as part of a team, receptive to work-
related suggestions and ideas. Decisive/persevering regarding task finalisation
and able to effectively function under pressure. A valid drivers license.
DUTIES : Monthly closure on BAS. Capture journals to clear suspense accounts.
Manage cash-flow on PMG account to avoid bank overdraft. Submit
monthly/quarterly reports on equitable share, transfers to Public Entities.
Attend to requests for information (RFI) from both internal and external auditors
(AGSA). Ensure timeous processing of payments to related
parties/beneficiaries. Assist with and coordinate related administrative tasks.
Capturing of all final payments and related transactions on PERSAL and on
the Financial Management System (BAS). Ensuring that all accounting
records, documentation and files are safeguarded and readily available for
163
audit purposes. Perform any other duties that will be assigned by the
Manager/Supervisor from time to time.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. NC Ndlala Tel No: (013) 766 4370
APPLICATIONS : Email to recruitmentdedt5@mpg.gov.za
POST 45/262 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK: SCM REF NO: DEDT/2025/26/23
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate SAQA recognized NQF level six (06) tertiary qualification in
Financial Management/ Logistics/ Supply Chain Management/ Public
Administration/ Cost and Management Accounting with three years relevant
work experience in a supply chain management environment, in demand and
acquisition management and management of service provider’s contracts,
performance and management. In-depth knowledge and understanding of the
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), its Treasury Regulations, the
Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA), B-BBEE legislation,
and National Treasury SCM instructions and notes. Well established
knowledge of general SCM principles, including demand management,
acquisition, inventory management, and contract management. Operational
knowledge of procurement processes of goods and services and procurement
management systems i.e. LOGIS, BAS etc. Sound reasoning, mathematical,
accounting and problem-solving ability. Basic working knowledge of computer
systems in the Public Service/Private Sector, including PERSAL, BAS, Invoice
Tracking System, Central Supplier Database (CSD), MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint and Outlook.
DUTIES : Supervising and monitoring SCM clerical activities, ensuring compliance with
all SCM legislative requirements (PFMA, Treasury Regulations, etc. Managing
demand and acquisition clerical support, including sourcing (requesting and
receiving) quotations, placing orders, maintaining and updating supplier
databases. Administering contract management processes, including
maintaining contract files and assessing supplier performance. Rendering
asset management clerical support, which involves maintaining records,
verifying asset registers, and managing disposals. Preparing payment
documents and assisting with account reconciliation. Compiling reports and
statistics related to SCM activities. Verify inventory register. Register suppliers
on LOGIS. Capture specifications on the electronic purchasing system and
place orders. Issue and receive bid documents. Provide secretarial or logistical
support during the bid consideration and contracts conclusion processes.
Compile draft documents. Render logistical support services, which include
printing orders for goods and services. Receive and verify goods and services
from suppliers. Capture goods in requests database, receive request for goods
from end users. Issue goods to end users. Maintain goods register and update
and maintain register of suppliers. Perform any other relevant duties as
directed by the Manager/Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. J Mabuza Tel No: (013) 766 4140
APPLICATIONS : Email to recruitmentdedt6@mpg.gov.za
POST 45/263 : RECEPTIONIST REF NO: DEDT 2025/26/24
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District: Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate. Must be prepared to work autonomously and under
pressure. Knowledge of Batho Pele principles, operation of telecommunication
system and front office etiquette is essential. The applicant must have the
following skills problem solving, communication, computer literacy, customer
orientation.
DUTIES : Attend to all incoming and outgoing telephone calls, direct calls to the relevant
official/office, render onsite and online receptionist services, proper
maintenance of equipment, and coordinate the travel and meeting bookings
and telephonic calls. Maintain the telephone directory for the District Office,
maintain relevant files. Receive and re-reroute incoming mail and packages.
Ensure no visitor proceeds to offices without first verifying with the relevant
office and signing in. Maintain the cleanliness and order of the reception area.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. FP Sibiya Tel No: (013) 766 4490
APPLICATIONS : Email to recruitmentdedt4@mpg.gov.za
164
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions.
Candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 24 December 2025
NOTE : N.B. Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae. In order to alleviate administration burden on HR
Sections as well as considering the cost for applicants, Departments are
encouraged to request certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents from shortlisted candidates only which may be submitted to HR on
or before the day of the interview following communication from the relevant
HR section of the Department. All posts health/engineering posts that are
advertised within the Department professional registration will be required from
various statutory council for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of
application documents should be submitted separately for every post that you
wish to apply for. Please ensure that you clearly state the full post description
and the relevant Post Reference Number on your application. No fax
applications will be considered. Applicants must ensure that they fully complete
and sign form Z 83, even if they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or
unsigned applications will not be considered. If you are currently in service,
please indicate your PERSAL number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing
internal processes, the Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at
any time. The Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All
shortlisted candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment.
If no response is received from Mpumalanga Department of Health within 90
days after the closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume that
their application was not successful. Please quote the correct references when
applying and where possible the station / centre where the post is.
www.mpuhealth.gov.za Only Online Applications will be accepted. NB:
Candidates who are not contacted within 90 days after the closing date must
consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. Please note the
Department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised
posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well served.
(People with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the post of Medical Specialist Grade 1-3:
Ophthalmology (Themba Hospital, Ehlanzeni District) with Ref No:
MPDoH/No/25/670 advertised on the Public Service Vacancy Circular 42 dated
14 November 2025, the post has been withdrawn.
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/264 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1-3: INTERNAL MEDICINE REF NO:
MPDOH/DEC/25/862
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 - R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 - R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Themba Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine
(2025). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist (Internal Medicine) for foreign qualified employees. Grade:
165
2: A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA
as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’
relevant experience after registration with a recognized foreign health
profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Internal
Medicine) for qualified foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10)
years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience
after registration with a recognized foreign health profession council and / or
the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Internal Medicine) for qualified foreign
employees. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge.
Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work
independently and under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work
with diverse team. Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and
engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation,
programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff
within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within
a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Internal Medicine and
coordinate services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to
support the aims and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards
of patient care. Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted
in a level 2/3 package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and
implementation of guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and
training programs. Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous
professional development. Provide support to hospital management towards
an efficient standard of patient care and services maintained. Comply with the
performance Management and Development System (conducting quarterly
reviews and final assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
POST 45/265 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1-3: OPHTHALMOLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/DEC/25/863
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 - R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 - R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Ophthalmology
(2025). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist (Ophthalmology) for foreign qualified employees. Grade 2:
A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant
experience after registration with a recognized foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Ophthalmology) for
qualified foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience after registration with a
recognized foreign health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist (Ophthalmology) for qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, skills,
Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general
166
clinical domains. The ability to work independently and under pressure and
beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Ophthalmology and coordinate
services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims
and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
POST 45/266 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1-3: SURGERY REF NO:
MPDOH/DEC/25/864
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 - R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 - R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Surgery (2025). A
valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge
of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public
Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking,
examination, clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 1: None
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after registration with a recognized
Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Surgery) for
foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2: A minimum of five (5) years’ experience
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant experience after registration with a
recognized foreign health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist (Surgery) for qualified foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of
ten (10) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant
experience after registration with a recognized foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Surgery) for qualified
foreign employees. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required.
Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and
teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical
knowledge. Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to
work independently and under pressure and beyond normal working hours and
work with diverse team. Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and
engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation,
programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff
within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within
a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Surgery and coordinate
services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims
and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
167
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
POST 45/267 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1-3: ORTHOPAEDIC REF NO:
MPDOH/DEC/25/865
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 - R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 - R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Orthopaedic
(2025). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist (Orthopaedic) for foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2: A
minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant
experience after registration with a recognized foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Orthopaedic) for qualified
foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience after registration with a
recognized foreign health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist (Orthopaedic) for qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, skills,
Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general
clinical domains. The ability to work independently and under pressure and
beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Orthopaedic and coordinate
services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims
and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
168
POST 45/268 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1-3: GENERAL SURGERY REF NO:
MPDOH/DEC/25/866
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 - R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 - R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 - R2 212 680 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in General Surgery
(2025). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist (General Surgery) for foreign qualified employees. Grade 2:
A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant
experience after registration with a recognized foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (General Surgery) for
qualified foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience after registration with a
recognized foreign health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist (General Surgery) for qualified foreign employees. Knowledge,
skills, Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of medical
ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the
respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency and
skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work independently and under
pressure and beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing General Surgery and
coordinate services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to
support the aims and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards
of patient care. Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted
in a level 2/3 package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and
implementation of guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and
training programs. Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous
professional development. Provide support to hospital management towards
an efficient standard of patient care and services maintained. Comply with the
performance Management and Development System (conducting quarterly
reviews and final assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
POST 45/269 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/DEC/25/873 (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 001 349 - R1 078 116 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner (2025) (Independent Practice). NB: The appointed Medical Officer
must be able to work shifts. A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge
of current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
169
management. Grade 1: No experience required after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year
relevant experience after registration with a recognised Foreign Health
Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent
Practice) for foreign qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and
Competences Required: Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary
management and teamwork and experience in the respective medical
discipline. Sound clinical knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical
domains. The ability to work under supervision as an efficient team member.
Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability
to manage patients independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when
necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and
priorities within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the
department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team,
self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Sound clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Ability to deal with all
medical emergencies. Knowledge of ethical medical practice. Assist with
clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
POST 45/270 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/DEC/25/874
SALARY : R1 001 349 - R1 078 116 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner (2025) (Independent Practice). NB: The appointed Medical Officer
must be able to work shifts. A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge
of current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: No experience required after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year
relevant experience after registration with a recognised Foreign Health
Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent
Practice) for foreign qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and
Competences Required: Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary
management and teamwork and experience in the respective medical
discipline. Sound clinical knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical
domains. The ability to work under supervision as an efficient team member.
Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability
to manage patients independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when
necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and
priorities within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the
department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team,
self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Sound clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Ability to deal with all
medical emergencies. Knowledge of ethical medical practice. Assist with
clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
170
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
POST 45/271 : PHARMACY SUPERVISOR GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/DEC/25/875
(Re-advertisement)
SALARY : R1 001 349 - R1 062 183 per annum
CENTRE : Pharmaceutical Depot, Middelburg
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma Pharm/ BSc. Pharm/ B. Pharm.
Current registration with South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) (2025).
Minimum of four (4) years’ appropriate experience after registration as a
Pharmacist with SAPC. Good communication, interpersonal and computer
skills (MS Word and Excel). Ability to work in a team. Good understanding of
the National Drug Policy and Good Pharmacy Practice. Sound knowledge of
the Pharmacy Act and the Medicine and Related Substance Control Act. A
valid code B driver’s license.
DUTIES : Implement and monitor the procurement of medicines and medical devices
against the approved demand plan and stock levels. Authorize purchase orders
generated as per the SCM delegation. Monitor the receiving of purchased
goods and confirm that goods have been received and can be paid for (sign
completion certificate). Monitor and manage returns by facilities. Compile and
submit reports. Monitor stock upliftment and ensure proper credit allocation by
the supplier/s. Coordinate the transfer of stock from receiving to the warehouse
and from the warehouse to receiving. Monitor upliftment and batch recalls and
stock of poor quality or standard. Compile and submit reports of obsolete
(expired and damaged) and redundant stock. Monitor receipt of all stock
received on donation. Confirm stock issued to facilities (sign completion
certificate for the service rendered by the service provider). Compile stock
reports and analyse these reports. Capture receipt transactions on stock
management system. Attend Bid Evaluation and/or Bid Specific Committee
meetings. Perform quality assurance activities in the area of responsibility.
Maintain and uphold good warehousing practice standards and Good
Pharmacy Practice standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
POST 45/272 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): OPERATING THEATRE
REF NO: MPDOH/DEC/25/876
SALARY : R693 096 – R789 861 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/
Degree in Nursing) that allows registration with the 'South African Nursing
Council' (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing
qualification, with duration of at least one (01) year accredited with the SANC
in Operating Theatre Nursing Science. Diploma/Degree in nursing
management. Minimum of ten (09) years appropriate/recognizable experience
in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with South African Nursing
Council (SANC) in General Nursing At least six (05) years of period referred to
above must be appropriate/recognizable in the specific specialty after obtaining
the one (01) year post basic qualification in Operating Theatre Nursing
Science. At least three (03) years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience at Management Level Skills: Knowledge
of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing statutes and other relevant
legal frameworks such as Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational Health and
Safety Act Patient’s Rights Charter, Batho-Pele Principles. Sound knowledge
and skills in implementing disciplinary code and procedure, grievance
171
procedure Leadership, organizational, decision making and problem-solving
abilities within the limit of the public sector and institutional policy framework
Good interpersonal skills including public relations, negotiating, conflict
handling and counselling skills. Knowledge of financial and budgetary
prescripts and processes pertaining to the relevant resources under
management Insight into public health sector strategies and priorities including
the nursing strategy, standards procedures and policies pertaining to nursing
care, computer skills in basic programs.
DUTIES : Provide effective management and professional leadership in the specialized
units of Operating Theatre Unit. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors, other health professional and junior colleagues including
more complex report writing when required Effective management, utilization
and supervision of all resources Display a concern for patients, promoting,
advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care and ensure that the unit
adheres to the principles of Batho Pele Maintain clinical competence by
ensuring that scientific principles of nursing and clinical governance are
implemented. Implement maternal guidelines, demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practice. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and any labour related issues
in terms of laid down procedures. Provide supportive supervision and comply
with PMDS evaluation of staff, formulate training programs and participate in
training and development of staff and nursing students Monitor implementation
of Disaster management, monitor implementation of NCS and Ideal Hospital
Realization Framework and interpret its impact on service delivery thereof. Co-
ordinate and participate in health promotion activities and monitor and
evaluation of data Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a support tool to
enhance service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
POST 45/273 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): ONCOLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/DEC/25/877
SALARY : R693 096 – R789 861 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/
Degree in Nursing) that allows registration with the 'South African Nursing
Council' (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing
qualification, with duration of at least one (01) year accredited with the SANC
in Oncology Nursing Science. Diploma/Degree in nursing management.
Minimum of ten (09) years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with South African Nursing Council
(SANC) in General Nursing At least six (05) years of period referred to above
must be appropriate/recognizable in the specific specialty after obtaining the
one (01) year post basic qualification in Oncology Nursing Science. At least
three (03) years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience at Management Level Skills: Knowledge
of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing statutes and other relevant
legal frameworks such as Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational Health and
Safety Act Patient’s Rights Charter, Batho-Pele Principles. Sound knowledge
and skills in implementing disciplinary code and procedure, grievance
procedure Leadership, organizational, decision making and problem-solving
abilities within the limit of the public sector and institutional policy framework
Good interpersonal skills including public relations, negotiating, conflict
handling and counselling skills. Knowledge of financial and budgetary
prescripts and processes pertaining to the relevant resources under
management Insight into public health sector strategies and priorities including
the nursing strategy, standards procedures and policies pertaining to nursing
care, computer skills in basic programs.
DUTIES : Provide effective management and professional leadership in the specialized
units of Oncology Unit. Demonstrate effective communication with patients,
supervisors, other health professional and junior colleagues including more
complex report writing when required Effective management, utilization and
172
supervision of all resources Display a concern for patients, promoting,
advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care and ensure that the unit
adheres to the principles of Batho Pele Maintain clinical competence by
ensuring that scientific principles of nursing and clinical governance are
implemented. Implement maternal guidelines, demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practice. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and any labour related issues
in terms of laid down procedures. Provide supportive supervision and comply
with PMDS evaluation of staff, formulate training programs and participate in
training and development of staff and nursing students Monitor implementation
of Disaster management, monitor implementation of NCS and Ideal Hospital
Realization Framework and interpret its impact on service delivery thereof. Co-
ordinate and participate in health promotion activities and monitor and
evaluation of data Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a support tool to
enhance service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 45/274 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER (PN-A5): GENERAL STREAM REF NO:
MPDOH/DEC/25/878
SALARY : R549 192 - R629 121 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Nursing Council in Terms of Government Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of seven (7) years of
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing (2025). A Diploma /
Degree in Nursing Administration and Management will be an added
advantage. Knowledge/skills: Basic computer literacy, strong Leadership,
Good communication and Sound Interpersonal skills. Ability to work under
pressure, manage own time, function as an effective leader of the nursing team
Implement and manage change. Willingness to work shifts and standby in
accordance with the requirements of the unit and nursing services. Report
writing.
DUTIES : The candidate will be responsible for Planning, Organizing, Managing, and
coordinating as well as maintaining optimal Nursing Services as an Operational
Manager in General Unit. Develop / establish and maintain constructive
working relationships with Nursing and stakeholders (i.e. inter- Professional,
inter–sectoral and multi – disciplinary team workers). Participate in the
analysis, formulation, and implementation of nursing guidelines, practices,
Standards, and procedures. Effectively manage the utilization of Human,
Financial and Physical resources. Maintain professional Growth / Ethical
standards and self-development. Deliver a supportive service to the Nursing
Service and the institution by taking overall supervision after hours and on
weekends. Ensure implementation of Norms and Standards and Ideal Hospital
Framework and develop Quality Improvement Plans. Manage Performance
and Development of staff as well as participating in the Managers scheduled
meetings. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and other labour related
issues in terms of laid down policies or procedures. Manage data in the unit
and ensure submission to facility information office. Identity develops and
control Risk Management Systems within the unit. Provide safe therapeutic
environment as laid by Nursing Acts, Occupational Health and safety Acts and
all the applicable prescripts. Implementation and management of Infection
Prevention and Control protocols. Uphold the Batho Pele and Patients Right
Principles.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
173
POST 45/275 : CHIEF DIAGNOSTIC RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 REF NO:
MPDOH/DEC/25/879
SALARY : R575 250 – R638 856 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate three-year National diploma/
Degree in Diagnostic Radiography. Current Registration with Health
Professions Council of South Africa as Diagnostic Radiographer (Independent
Practice). A minimum of 3 years appropriate experience in Diagnostic
Radiography. Working Knowledge and experience in radiography principles,
systems and procedures performed within the radiology department which
include CT scanning, fluoroscopy, theatre screening and performing General
Radiography duties. Sound knowledge of radiation safety regulations and
sound knowledge in Radiography equipment and protocols. Knowledge of
relevant public service policies acts and regulations. Knowledge of HR related
policies and procedures, knowledge of Employee Performance Management
and Development Systems. Good verbal and written communication, and
sound interpersonal skills. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to promote
and uphold patients’ rights. Knowledge of X-ray digital system, RIS and PACS.
Render 24-hour radiology services.
DUTIES : Responsibility include but not limited to: Performance of X-ray examinations.
Ensure that radiology equipment installed and used meet all applicable
radiation safety standards. Ensure that the equipment is well maintained and
function properly. Quality improvement management. Ensure that applicable
Quality assurance programme and Quality Control (QC) tests are performed at
the prescribed frequencies as stipulated in the diagnostic QC policy. Ensure
that radiation surveys to monitor safe performance of equipment and to monitor
radiation levels in work areas are undertaken. Ensure compliance with HPCSA
regulations on CPD annually. Ensure that radiation safety rules are
communicated to and followed by all personnel. Train and supervise junior
radiography staff. Oversight of administrative functions including compiling
memos, stock control and other resources. Perform all delegated departmental
tasks with limited supervision and have the ability to deal with crisis situations
independently.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
POST 45/276 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): MATERNITY REF NO:
MPDOH/DEC/25/880
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Mmametlhake Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/
Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing qualification with
of at least 1year, accredited with the SANC in terms Government Notice R212
in Advanced Midwifery Nursing Science. A minimum of four (4) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Demonstrate an understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice of
Advanced Midwifery Nursing Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stakeholders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to
174
prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to protocols.
Able to plan and organize own work and that of support personnel to ensure
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of
diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence
to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 45/277 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): OPERATING THEATRE REF
NO: MPDOH/DEC/25/881
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/
Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing qualification with
of at least 1year, accredited with the SANC in terms Government Notice R212
in Operating Theatre Nursing Science. A minimum of four (4) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Demonstrate an understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice of
Operating Theatre Nursing Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stakeholders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to
prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to protocols.
Able to plan and organize own work and that of support personnel to ensure
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of
diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence
to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
POST 45/278 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): ICU REF NO:
MPDOH/DEC/25/882
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/
Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing qualification with
of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in terms Government Notice R212
in Intensive Care Nursing Science. A minimum of four (4) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
175
skills. Demonstrate an understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice of
Intensive Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management of resources.
Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards. Participate in quality
improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient care standards.
Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with the statutory
laws governing the nursing profession, labor and health care. Implement
constructive working relations with nurses and other stakeholders. Ensure
compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that equipment
is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize, coordinate activities of
patient management according to protocols. Able to plan and organize own
work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate
in staff development and performance management. Report patient safety
incidence, challenges and deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-
operatively amicably with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or
religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and
Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
POST 45/279 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): TRAUMA & EMERGENCY
REF NO: MPDOH/DEC/25/883
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/
Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing qualification with
of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in terms Government Notice R212
in Trauma & Emergency Nursing Science. A minimum of four (4) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Demonstrate an understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice of
Trauma & Emergency Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management of
resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards.
Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient
care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with
the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stakeholders.
Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that
equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize, coordinate
activities of patient management according to protocols. Able to plan and
organize own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing
care. Participate in staff development and performance management. Report
patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies within the unit. Work
effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse intellectual,
cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho - Pele
Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
176
POST 45/280 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): PAEDIATRIC REF NO:
MPDOH/DEC/25/884
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/
Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing qualification with
of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in terms Government Notice R212
in Paediatric Nursing Science. A minimum of four (4) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Demonstrate an understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice of
Paediatric Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management of resources.
Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards. Participate in quality
improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient care standards.
Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with the statutory
laws governing the nursing profession, labor and health care. Implement
constructive working relations with nurses and other stakeholders. Ensure
compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that equipment
is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize, coordinate activities of
patient management according to protocols. Able to plan and organize own
work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate
in staff development and performance management. Report patient safety
incidence, challenges and deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-
operatively amicably with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or
religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho Pele Principles and Patient’s
Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
POST 45/281 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): PSYCHIATRIC REF NO:
MPDOH/DEC/25/885
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/
Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post basic nursing qualification with
of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in terms Government Notice R212
in Psychiatric Nursing Science. A minimum of four (4) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Demonstrate an understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice of
Psychiatric Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management of resources.
Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards. Participate in quality
improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient care standards.
Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with the statutory
laws governing the nursing profession, labor and health care. Implement
constructive working relations with nurses and other stakeholders. Ensure
compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that equipment
is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize, coordinate activities of
patient management according to protocols. Able to plan and organize own
work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate
in staff development and performance management. Report patient safety
177
incidence, challenges and deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-
operatively amicably with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or
religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and
Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
POST 45/282 : LECTURER GRADE 1 (PN-D1): WITBANK HOSPITAL SUB-CAMPUS REF
NO: MPDOH/DEC/25/886
SALARY : R476 367 - R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Mpumalanga College of Nursing, Kabokweni
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Masters /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional nurse plus post basic
qualification in Nursing Education registered with the SANC. A minimum of four
(4) years appropriate / recognisable nursing experience after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing (2025).
Recommendations: Ability to function independently and to prioritize work.
Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-
making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills. Experience after
registration with SANC in Nursing Education after obtaining R118 in Nursing
Education will be an added advantage. Excellent written and verbal
communication. Leadership skills, Presentation, Facilitation, problem solving,
conflict management, research, project management and time management
skills. Excellent written and verbal communication. Leadership skills,
Presentation, Facilitation, problem solving, conflict management, research,
project management and time management skills.
DUTIES : Planning, co-ordination, implementation, and facilitation of training
programmes for nurses in the health establishment. Mentoring and coaching
of nursing staff. Co-ordinate the activities of Clinical Education and Training
Unit (CETU). Facilitate the implementation of Continuous Professional
Development (CPD) Framework. Liaise between Nursing Education and
Nursing Practice (Hospital & Nursing College). Provide Skills and competency
updates and facilitation of in-service training. Monitoring, evaluation and
analysis of training programmes/activities/competencies and skills to ensure
quality health service delivery. Internal and External Collaboration on training
programmes to ensure effective capacity building. Effective Management, co-
ordination, administration, and reporting of Teaching Programmes.
Demonstrate an understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and
ethical nursing practices. Effective and efficient management of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
POST 45/283 : LECTURER GRADE 1 (PN-D1): STANDERTON HOSPITAL SUB-CAMPUS
REF NO: MPDOH/DEC/25/887
(Re-advertisement)
SALARY : R476 367 - R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Mpumalanga College of Nursing, Kabokweni
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Masters /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional nurse plus post basic
qualification in Nursing Education and Nursing Administration registered with
the SANC. A minimum of four (4) years appropriate / recognisable nursing
experience after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing (2025). Registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse in Nursing
Education and a Midwifery. Valid Driver’s license. Computer certificate /
Literacy. Competencies: Knowledge of Curriculum development, Study guide
178
development, SANC education and training prescripts. Knowledge of Public
Service Administration Acts and Legislation such as: Public service regulation,
Health Act, NQF Act, Nursing Act, Higher Education Act, and CHE related
documents and guidelines, SANC guidelines and Regulations, Labour
Relations Act, Public Finance Management Act etc. Skills: Good
communication skills, Report writing skills, Facilitation skills, Liaison skills.
Good Interpersonal skills, Presentation skills, Management skills, Research
skills and Leadership skills. Attributes: Team player, Honesty,
Responsiveness, Professionalism, Accuracy, Flexibility, Independent, Co-
operative, Team player, Supportive, integrity and able to maintain
Confidentiality. The main objective of the post is to facilitate education and
training to student nurses for undergraduate programme, Advanced Diploma
in Midwifery (R.1497.)
DUTIES : Provide education and training of nurses. Co-ordinate clinical learning
exposure to students between college and clinical areas. Implement
assessment strategies to determine students’ competencies. Exercise control
over students. Support mission and promote the image of the college.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
POST 45/284 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/DEC/25/888
SALARY R397 233 - R454 191 per annum
CENTRE Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
RUIQEMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus appropriate qualification that allows for the
registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable).
Current registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist (2025)
(Independent Practice). A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Grade 1: No experience required after registration with the HPCSA
as an Occupational Therapist (Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year
relevant experience after registration with a recognised Foreign Health
Professions and / or the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist (Independent
Practice) for foreign qualified employees. Clinical experience in general adult
and pediatric assessment and treatment is required. Knowledge in the fields of
mental health, vocational rehabilitation, neurology, hand injuries, burns,
amputations, developmental delays, etc. is expected. Clinical experience in
these fields will be beneficial.
DUTIES : To provide optimal and evidence-based occupational therapy in individual and
group settings for patients in, out and clinics. To administer standardized and
clinical assessments to patients requiring FCEs and other clinical reports. To
perform and complete administrative functions including record keeping,
statistics, participate in various meetings and awareness campaigns. To plan
for and participate in internal and external audits and ensure departmental
standards and effective service delivery. To participate in the performance
management and training and development programs within the department.
To supervise junior level staff. To supervise allocated students and learners.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
POST 45/285 : DIETICIAN GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/DEC/25/889
SALARY R397 233 - R454 191 per annum
CENTRE Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus BSc Dietetics Degree. Registration with the
HPCSA as a Dietician (2025). Grade 1: SA qualified employees: None
experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where
applicable) in respect of employees who performed Community Service as
required in SA. Foreign qualified employees: one (1) year relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable)
179
in respect of employees who performed Community Service as required in
South Africa. Hospital experience and extensive knowledge in Occupational
Health and Safety will be an added advantage. Good interpersonal Skills,
written, verbal and presentation Skills. Accuracy and attention to detail. Ability
to work under pressure. Ability and willingness to travel. Good interpersonal
relationship, Leadership skill. Valid drivers’ license.
DUTIES : Render preventative Nutrition Services (including growth monitoring,
education, etc) in the surrounding clinics. Diet prescriptions for patients. Help
with food management of the hospital. Participate in quality Improvement
Programmes. Rendering of nutritional counselling services. Prescription and
authorization of special diet products. Implementation of guidelines for the
maintenance of healthy nutritional practices. Compilation and implementation
of information pamphlets on nutrition. Plan and implement a suitable
programme for an individual or group.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 45/286 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (MR-4): LEGISLATION AND
CONTRACT DRAFTING REF NO: MPDOH/DEC/25/890
SALARY : R388 392 - R444 075 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus LLB Degree with a minimum of five (5) years
post graduate legal experience in the capacity of an in-house legal advisor and
legislative drafting. Specialized knowledge of the legislation drafting process
and legislation administered by the Department, knowledge of government
procurement systems and South African Legal System, knowledge of the
Constitution of Republic of South Africa, Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Treasury Regulation, PPPFA, PAJA, PAIA. Knowledge of the litigation
process and drafting / reviewing of contracts. Skills and competencies:
Interpersonal skills, strategic capability and leadership skills, Legal research
and drafting skills, problem solving and dispute resolution skills.
Communication skills (written and verbal), report writing skill, ability to work
under pressure, Computer literacy. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Draft and or amend legislation administered by the Department and pilot it
though legislature. Comment on draft legislation of other Departments on
behalf of the Department, Scrutinize legislation which requires amendment for
which the Department is affected. To render legal advice, guidance and
opinions to MEC, Top Management and Department at large in respect to
matters relating to legislation drafting and other legal matters. To provide legal
opinions in other matters pertaining to the Department. Handle litigations on
behalf of the Department. Draft, review contracts for the department. Drafting
of contract. Prepare monthly reports for and on behalf of the Director.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
POST 45/287 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: RISK PERFORMANCE AND CONTRACT
MANAGEMENT REF NO: MPDOH/DEC/25/891
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus six (6) years relevant experience in Supply
Chain Management field or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Supply Chain
Management / Financial Management, Public Management / Management
Accounting field of study plus a minimum of three (3) years’ experience in
Supply Chain Management field. A qualification related to Treasury and
competence for Finance officials will be an added advantage. Preparedness to
security clearance and disclosure of financial interest. A valid driver’s license
(with exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and
180
Skills: Supervisory skills, good planning and organized skills. Good
interpersonal relations and good communication skills (written and verbal).
Ability to work under pressure and preparedness to work overtime, when
required. Skills in Microsoft Word and Excel.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Maintain a database
of al concluded contracts. Administering contracts effectively in accordance
with policy, procedures and compliant with applicable legislative requirement.
Maintain contract register in a format provided by Provincial Treasury.
Interacting with the Project Managers about the signing of contracts and
service level agreements for all contracts entered by the Department. Ensuring
that all contracts are accurately recorded on the contract Register and regularly
update of the contract register. Reviewing contracts on the contract register to
ensure their validity. Co-coordinating and control the application of the
procedures in respect of the supplier performance monitoring and contract
management. Preparing reports on non-performing / poor performing
companies and recommends the appropriate actions to be taken to remedy the
situation. Supervising activities of the personnel to ensure that work performed
meets acceptable standards and is completed within agreed upon timelines.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
181
ANNEXURE W
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the Department.
CLOSING DATE : 23 December 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z83 of
the Public Service Act, obtainable from any Public Service Department or any
Public Service Administration website. Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must
submit a fully completed Z83 and a detailed/comprehensive Curriculum Vitae,
indicating positions held, dates and key performance responsibilities. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of their
qualifications and relevant documents on or before the day of the interview
proceedings following communication from the Human Resource Management
Recruitment and Selection Unit. Failure to submit the requested documents or
information will result in your application not being considered. The
employment decision shall be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the
Northern Cape Department of Health. Should an applicant wish to apply for
more than one post, separate applications must be submitted for all posts. If
you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal
record, residential address, qualification verification and employment
verification). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the above
post. The successful candidate will be expected to sign a performance
agreement. The Department of Health is an equal opportunity affirmative action
employer. The employment decision shall be informed by the Employment
Equity Plan of the Department. It is the Department’s intention to promote
equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s) with a
candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representavity
in line with the numerical targets as contained in our Employment Equity Plan.
For all SMS positions, the successful completion of the Public Service Senior
Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government. The SMS Pre-Entry Certificate is required prior to appointment.
For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse /sms-pre-entry-programme.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 45/288 : CHIEF DIRECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL
SERVICES REF NO: NCDOH 155/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum, (TCE package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelors’ Degree in the Built Environment. NQF level 7/Advanced Diploma
as recognized by SAQA. Post-graduate Qualification in management will be an
added advantage. A minimum of 5 years’ working experience in the in Senior
Management in the Public Sector and/or related Management experience in
design and delivery of infrastructure programmes. A valid driver’s license.
Exceptional knowledge in the development of Government policies,
procedures and prescripts. Documented track record of successful
management of construction programmes and projects. Sound knowledge of
the CIDB Act and Regulations. Knowledge in financial and Supply Chain
Management processes, Supply Chain Management Policies, Government
Immovable Asset Management Policies, Government Immovable Asset
Management Act of 2007, Occupational Health and Safety Act and Regulations
as well as other related Acts and Regulations. Good communication skills, both
verbal and written. Project management and excellent research and
benchmarking skills. Ability to work in a high-pressured environment.
Meticulous attention to detail. Core management competencies. Core
182
Management competencies: Continuous improvement, developing others,
Diversity Management, Communication and information management,
problem solving and decision making, applied strategic thinking, budgeting and
financial management. Client Orientation and customer focused. Programme
and project management, Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provide strategic direction on the service delivery mechanisms of the following
directorates: Infrastructure Planning, Infrastructure Delivery, Health
Technology Management and Maintenance Management. Plan and construct
new health facilities as well as renovate and maintain existing facilities. Perform
leadership functions such as planning work programmes, personnel
administration and determining work procedures and methods. Compile
presentations and briefs for the Head of Department. Manage structures and
external committees and stakeholders. Provide technical and professional
support to the Head of Department. Write reports, memorandums, and policy
documents, etc. Prepare documentation for the follow-up of high-profile
meetings. Develop and maintain a working system to ensure good corporate
governance. Coordinate all infrastructure projects inclusive of planning
execution, monitoring and evaluation. Lead the change management process
in the Department into policy, organisational re-alignment and system
implementation(s).
ENQUIRIES : Mr M. Mlatha Tel No: (053) 8302 100
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building,
Room 29, couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum
Building, Kimberley Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed to
nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application register
when an application is hand delivered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/289 : HEAD: CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) REF NO: NCDOH 156/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R2 084 754 per annum
CENTRE : John Taolo Gaetsewe District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Family Medicine.
Appropriate tertiary qualification in the Health Science (MBChB). Current
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in the required discipline. Experience: Grade 1: A Minimum
of 3 (three) years appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA as a medical specialist in one of the following
discipline: Family Medicine. Competencies: Good communication skills (written
and verbal) well as computer literacy. Must have strong record of clinical
expertise and clinical governance, research and experience of training and
teaching at both under and post graduate levels. Strong people management
skills, analytical thinking, problem solving, decision-making and ability to work
in a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : To provide holistic, patient-centred care at all levels of the health system —
from clinics and community health centres to district hospitals. Diagnosing and
managing acute and chronic medical conditions across all age groups. Offering
maternal and child health services, including antenatal care. Performing
surgical procedures. Overseeing chronic disease management (e.g., diabetes,
hypertension, HIV, TB). To ensure that care is coordinated across the health
system. Promoting community-oriented primary care — integrating public
health and clinical practice. Participating in health promotion and disease
prevention initiatives at community level. Ensuring quality improvement, patient
safety, and evidence-based practice. Participating in clinical audits, mortality
meetings, and continuous quality improvement. Providing support and
mentorship to medical officers, nurses, and other primary care providers across
the health system. Developing and implementing clinical guidelines and
protocols. Leading continuous professional development (CPD) activities for
healthcare teams. Conducting or facilitating research relevant to primary care
and district health. Actively participate in the management of health services
within the district. Supporting human resource development, team
coordination, and efficient service delivery. Participating in policy
implementation and strategic planning at district level.
ENQUIRIES : Dr DG Theys Tel No: (053) 830 2102
183
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the front reception of James
Exum Building or E-Mailed at nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za All applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 45/290 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: PAEDIATRICS REF NO: NCDOH 157/2025 (X1
POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
CENTRE : Dr Harry Surtie Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows for the registration with Health
Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in
Paediatrics. Registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa
as Medical Specialist in the required/mentioned field. Appropriate qualification
that allows registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist. Experience:
Grade 1: Experience, none after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist. Grade 2: Experience, a minimum of 5 years’ experience after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist. Grade 3: Experience, a
minimum of 10 years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Specialist.
DUTIES : To provide and develop Tertiary Services and to ensure the provision of quality
clinical services to patients, as well as teaching and training of junior doctors.
To ensure clinical governance (including but not limited to protocol
development, risk management, commuted overtime management and cost
containment), to provide outreach services to the rest of the province.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. D Theys Tel No: (053) 830 2102
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building,
Room 29, couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum
Building, Kimberley Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed to
nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application register
when an application is hand delivered.
POST 45/291 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: FAMILY MEDICINE REF NO: NCDOH 158/2025 (X1
POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R 1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
CENTRE : Dr Harry Surtie Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows for the registration with Health
Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Family
Medicine. Registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa as
Medical Specialist in the required/mentioned field. Experience: Grade 1:
Experience, none after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist.
Grade 2: Experience, a minimum of 5 years’ experience after registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Specialist. Grade 3: Experience, a minimum of 10
years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist.
DUTIES : To provide and develop Tertiary Services and to ensure the provision of quality
clinical services to patients, as well as teaching and training of junior doctors.
To ensure clinical governance (including but not limited to protocol
development, risk management, commuted overtime management and cost
containment), to provide outreach services to the rest of the province.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. D Theys Tel No: (053) 830 2102
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building,
Room 29, couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum
Building, Kimberley Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed to
nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application register
when an application is hand delivered.
POST 45/292 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER PRIMARY HEALTH CARE REF NO: NCDOH
159/2025 (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : John Taolo Gaetsewe District:
Gadiboe Clinic (X1 Post)
Kuruman Clinic (X1 Post)
184
Bothitong Clinic (X1 Post)
Heuningvlei Clinic (X1 Post)
Glenred Clinic (X1 Post)
Deerward Clinic (X1 Post)
GW Maroro Clinic (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Post basic qualification with
a duration of at least 1 year in Curative Skills in Primary Health Care accredited
with the SANC. Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable
nursing experience after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in
General Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the 1-year post basic
qualification in the relevant specialty.
DUTIES : Provide overall management and supervision of all nursing and support staff in
the facility. Lead the development and implementation of operational,
business, and quality improvement plans. Ensure compliance with the Ideal
Clinic Realisation and Maintenance (ICRM) framework. Ensure clinical
protocols, treatment guidelines are implemented and adhered to. Provide
clinical mentorship, support, and supervision to professional nurses and other
staff. Coordinate and monitor the integration of programs such as HIV/AIDS,
TB, maternal and child health, NCDs, and mental health. Participate in clinical
audits, morbidity and mortality reviews Promote health promotion and disease
prevention initiatives in collaboration with community structures. Manage staff,
orientation, allocation, leave planning, and performance appraisal. Identify
training and development needs of staff and facilitate in-service training and
continuous professional development (CPD). Ensure staff discipline,
motivation, and adherence to professional ethics and codes of conduct.
Oversee budget planning, expenditure monitoring, and resource utilization at
the facility. Ensure proper management of pharmaceuticals, medical supplies,
and equipment. Monitor infrastructure maintenance and facility cleanliness
Ensure accurate and timely collection, verification, and submission of health
data. Analyse and use data to monitor performance, identify gaps, and
implement corrective actions. Lead the of quality improvement projects and
monitor outcomes. Collaborate with local government, NGOs, schools, and
other sectors to address social determinants of health. Implement and monitor
Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) standards. Ensure compliance with the
Nursing Act, Public Service Regulations, and Department of Health policies.
Uphold the ethics and standards of the nursing profession as outlined by the
South African Nursing Council (SANC).
ENQUIRIES : Mr LI Moemedi Tel No: (053) 775 1149
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to 1 Petso Street, Kagisho
Health Centre, Mothibistad or emailed to nchhealthhr-jtg@ncpg.gov.za All
applicants must complete an application register when an application is hand
delivered.
POST 45/293 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE SPECIALTY (ADVANCED MIDWIFERY AND
NEONATAL NURSING SCIENCE) REF NO: NCDOH 160/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 – R549 192 per annum
Grade 2: R588 989 – R713 253 per annum
CENTRE : Kuruman District Hospital, John Taolo Gaetsewe District
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A
post-basic nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited
with the SANC in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science,
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Grade 2: Minimum of 14 years’ appropriate/recognizable
nursing experience after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing, at least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification in the relevant specialty.
DUTIES : Provide comprehensive, evidence-based care to women during antenatal,
intrapartum, and postnatal periods, including management of both normal and
high-risk pregnancies. Conduct thorough maternal and fetal assessments,
identifying complications early and initiating appropriate interventions. Manage
185
labour and delivery, ensuring safe conduct of both normal and complicated
births. Ensure infection prevention and control (IPC) standards are strictly
adhered to. Serve as a clinical expert and resource person for professional
nurses, midwives, and nursing students. Provide specialist consultation for
complicated or high-risk cases and collaborate with medical officers and
obstetricians for referral and management. Participate in multidisciplinary ward
rounds and case discussions to optimize maternal and neonatal outcomes.
Facilitate in-service education and skills training on maternal and neonatal
care, emergency obstetric care (EOC), and perinatal protocols. Contribute to
the development and updating of clinical guidelines and standard operating
procedures (SOPs). Lead the response to obstetric emergencies. Participate
in maternal and perinatal mortality and morbidity review meetings. Maintain
accurate records and documentation of maternal and neonatal care in patient
files and registers. Analyse ward statistics to identify trends, problem areas,
and opportunities for improvement. Participate in quality improvement (QI)
projects within the maternity ward. Implement and monitor Ideal Hospital
Framework, and Maternal Health Guidelines. Conduct clinical audits, risk
assessments, and quality reviews in maternity services. Promote patient
safety, confidentiality, and respectful maternity care. Ensure adherence to
infection prevention, waste management, and occupational health protocols.
Participate in or initiate clinical audits, operational research, and evidence-
based practice projects. Stay updated with current midwifery, obstetric, and
neonatal care guidelines.
ENQUIRIES : Mr LI Moemedi Tel No: (053) 775 1149
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to 1 Petso Street, Kagisho
Health Centre, Mothibistad or emailed at nchhealthhr-jtg@ncpg.gov.za All
applicants must complete an application register when an application is hand
delivered.
POST 45/294 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER REF NO: NCDOH 161/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R451 533 – R520 560 per annum
Grade 2: R553 545 – R676 068 per annum
CENTRE : Kagiso CHC
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Post basic qualification with
a duration of at least 1 year in Curative Skills in Primary Health Care accredited
with the SANC (i.e R48). Experience: Grade 1: Minimum of 4 years’
appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after registration as Professional
Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: Minimum of 14 years’
appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing, at least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant specialty.
DUTIES : Provide administrative services: Plan and organise the clinic, ensure
completion of statistics, ensure ordering and control of stationery and
consumables, ordering of medication. Ensure implementation of 95 95 95
strategy in all aspects of all programmes especially HIV/AIDS and TB Provision
of educational services In-service training, personnel development, health
education to patients. Provision of clinical services: Initiate the implementation
of programme and evaluation of patients conditions, initiate minor treatments,
individual consultation sessions. Function as a member of the therapeutic
team. Continuous evaluation of nursing care and nursing services. Identify
community needs. Ensure effective crisis management in the clinic. Initiate
resuscitation if necessary. Assist in regional and departmental research
projects. Ensure accurate data and information management systems. Ensure
accurate monthly reporting to the Operational Manager or Health Area
Manager. Ensure implementation of the ideal PHC/CHC standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr LI Moemedi Tel No: (053) 775 1149
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to 1 Petso Street, Kagisho
Health Centre, Mothibistad or emailed to nchhealthhr-jtg@ncpg.gov.za. All
applicants must complete an application register when an application is hand
delivered.
186
POST 45/295 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST REF NO: NCDOH: 162/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 961 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Dr Harry Surtie Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
an Occupational Therapist. Registration with a Professional Council: Current
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
an Occupational Therapist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with
the HPCSA as Occupational Therapist in respect of RSA qualified employees.
1-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Occupational
Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required
to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Occupational Therapist in respect of SA qualified employees. A Minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Occupational
Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required
to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Occupational Therapist in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 21
years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Occupational
Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required
to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent
requirements of the job: A Valid driver’s license. Willingness to rotate within the
substructure and perform relief duties. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Relevant skills in assessing, developing and implementing OT intervention.
Sound knowledge of relevant national, provincial legislation and Health Care
2030. Experience in student training/supervision. Basic computer skills in MS
Word, Excel, Outlook.
DUTIES : Coordinate & manage OT services for a designated area. People
management, Rehab Care Workers, students, volunteers. Liaise and
collaborate with stakeholders. Screen, assess and intervene as required &
appropriate Link to appropriate levels of care.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JP Berend Tel No: (054) 332 9094
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered at the Human Resource offices
at Dr Harry Surtie Hospital, couriered via postal services to C/O Upington 26
Drive and Turner Street, Upington, 8801 or e-mailed at
vacancies.dhsh@ncdoh.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application
register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 45/296 : PHYSIOTHERAPIST REF NO: NCDOH 163/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 961 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Dr Harry Surtie Hospital
REQUIRMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Physiotherapist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
HPCSA as a Physiotherapist Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with
the HPCSA in respect of RSA-qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in respect
of RSA-qualified employees. A Minimum of 11 years relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA a Physiotherapist in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in respect of RSA
qualified employees. A minimum of 21 years relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work
overtime. Ability to work after hours for ERAS (Enhanced Recovery After
187
Surgery) calls. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of applicable
health legislation, relevant Acts and Public Service Policies and Procedures.
Ability to work under extreme pressure. Ability to problem solve, organise, and
prioritize patient treatments/discharge plans. Ability to work within the MDT.
Ability to work independently Ability to supervise undergraduate students in a
tertiary setting. Appropriate, clinical experience as a Physiotherapist in an
acute and specialist/tertiary hospital. Good problem solving, interpersonal and
communication skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Assess and treat patients in Trauma, Oncology, Maternity, Neurology,
Neurosurgery, Orthopaedic, Acute Spinal Cord Injuries, 163 OPD, Medical,
Surgical, Cardiothoracic wards as well as High Care and Intensive Care units
associated with these wards Be responsible for administration related to patient
care as well as departmental administration. Management of assets in
allocated work area. Assist in the clinical supervision of undergraduate
students.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JP Berend Tel No: (054) 332 9094
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered at the Human Resource offices
at Dr Harry Surtie Hospital, couriered via postal services to C/O Upington 26
Drive and Turner Street, Upington, 8801 or e-mailed at
vacancies.dhsh@ncdoh.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application
register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 45/297 : RADIOGRAPHER REF NO: NCDOH 164/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 961 per annum
Grade 3: R 543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Dr Harry Surtie Hospital
REQUIRMENTS : An appropriate three-year National Diploma/Degree in Diagnostic
Radiography. Current registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa as a Diagnostic Radiographer (Independent Practice) Experience:
Grade 1: No experience after registration with the Health Professions Council
of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Diagnostic Radiographer in respect of RSA
qualified employees who performed Community Service as required in South
Africa. One-year relevant experience after registration with the Health
Professional Council of South Africa as a Diagnostic Radiographer in respect
of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum 10 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer in
respect of RSA qualified employees who performed Community Service as
required in South Africa. Minimum 11 years relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer in respect of foreign
qualified employees of whom it is not required to perform community service
as required in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum 20 year relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as a Radiographer – Diagnostic Imaging in
respect of RSA qualified employees who performed Community Service as
required in South Africa. Minimum 21 years relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer in respect of foreign
qualified employees of whom it is not required to perform community service
as required in South Africa. Knowledge, Skills Training and Competencies
Required: Working knowledge of radiography principals, systems and
procedures Sound knowledge of radiation safety regulations. Sound
knowledge of diagnostic radiography equipment and protocols. Knowledge of
relevant public service policies acts and regulations. Knowledge of HR related
policies and procedures. Knowledge of relevant Health and Safety regulations.
Good communication and sound interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Perform clinical radiographic duties in a completely digital radiology
department that offers a 24-hour radiology service whilst adhering to the
departmental policies & procedures. Perform imaging examinations whilst
adhering to radiography protocols, practices, and techniques. Participate in the
radiation protection and quality assurance program while adhering to the safety
protocols and quality standards in compliance with the Department of Health
policies and procedures. Required to produce good quality images in all
diagnostic modalities which include CT scanning. Perform overtime duties as
required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JP Berend Tel No: (054) 332 9094
188
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered at the Human Resource offices
at Dr Harry Surtie Hospital, couriered via postal services to C/O Upington 26
Drive and Turner Street, Upington 8801 or e-mailed at
vacancies.dhsh@ncdoh.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application
register when an application is hand delivered.
POST 45/298 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GENERAL REF NO: NCDOH 165/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 - R376 458 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 – R459 726 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 – R601 638 per annum
CENTRE : Kagisho CHC, John Taolo Gaetsewe District
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ experience appropriate /recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ experience
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice/quality patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria
and indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and
health care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and
health care. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently and
effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Mr LI Moemedi Tel No: (053) 775 1149
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to 1 Petso Street, Kagisho
Health Centre, Mothibistad or emailed to nchhealthhr-jtg@ncpg.gov.za
NOTE : All applicants must complete an application register when an application is
hand delivered.
POST 45/299 : STAFF NURSE REF NO: NCDOH 166/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 – R246 798 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 – R294 513 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 – R376 458 per annum
CENTRE : Olifantshoek CHC, John Taolo Gaetsewe District
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification that allows registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Registration
with SANC as Enrolled Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Staff Nurse.
DUTIES : Assist clients with daily activities. Provide basic clinical nursing care. Effective
utilisation of resources. Maintain professional growth /ethical standards and
self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr LI Moemedi Tel No: (053) 775 1149
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to 1 Petso Street, Kagisho
Health Centre, Mothibistad or emailed to nchhealthhr-jtg@ncpg.gov.za All
applicants must complete an application register when an application is hand
delivered.
POST 45/300 : NUSING ASSISTANT REF NO: NCDOH 167/2025 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 – R196 305 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 – R227 286 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 – R294 513 per annum
CENTRE : John Taolo Gaetsewe District:
Kuruman District Hospital (X3 Posts)
Tshwaragano District Hospital (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None,
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable nursing experience
after registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of
189
20 years appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after registration with
the SANC as Nursing Assistant.
DUTIES : Provide elementary nursing care in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards. Implement and development of basic patient care plans to
provide quality patient care. Willing to rotate through department and work
night duty. Maintain professional growth / ethical standards and self-
development. Work as part of a multidisciplinary team and support the
managers to ensure quality nursing care.
ENQUIRIES : Mr LI Moemedi Tel No: (053) 775 1149
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to 1 Petso Street, Kagisho
Health Centre, Mothibistad or emailed to nchhealthhr-jtg@ncpg.gov.za All
applicants must complete an application register when an application is hand
delivered.
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT SAFETY AND LIAISON
This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representivity in all occupational categories in the Department
APPLICATIONS : Applications stating the relevant reference number must be sent to: Head of
Department: Department of Transport, Safety and Liaison, Ocean Echo
Building, Cnr Sidney and Lennox Street, P.O.Box 1368, Kimberley, 8300.
"Note" in line with DPSA Circular 19 of 2022, applicants are submitting Z83 and
CV Only, All applications should be submitted using The Link Below:
https://form.jotform.com/253152788411559
FOR ATTENTION : Ms.J.J.Jafta
CLOSING DATE : 22 December 2025
NOTE : Note" in line with DPSA Circular 19 of 2022, applicants are required to submit
the new employment Z83 form which can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-
vacancies or obtained at any government. A recently updated, comprehensive
CV, with at least two (2) contactable references should accompany the fully
completed and signed new (Z83) form. The provision of certified copies of
qualifications will only be required from shortlisted candidates for submission
on or before the day of the interview. Shortlisted applicants will be subjected to
qualification verification, reference checking, security screening and vetting.
Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit proof of RSA
Citizenship/Permanent Resident permit. Should you be in possession of a
foreign qualification, it is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA)
and to provide proof of such evaluation only when shortlisted. Correspondence
will be limited to successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be
expected to avail themselves at the Department’s convenience. The
department reserves the right not to make appointments to the advertised
posts. Incomplete applications, applications received after the closing date or
applications without SAQA verification reports for foreign qualifications will not
be considered. It is important to note that it is the applicant’s responsibility to
ensure that all information and attachments in support of the application are
submitted by the due date. Each application for employment form (Z83) must
be duly signed and initialled by the applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead
to disqualification during the selection process. Applications submitted using
the old Z83, as well as not submitting the required documents will result in the
application not being considered. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One of which shall be a practical exercise, and the
other shall be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. All applications,
including those submitted via registered mail must reach the department before
16:00 on the day of the closing date; late applications will not be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/301 : PROVINCIAL INSPECTORS (X18 POSTS)
Directorate: Transport Regulations
SALARY : R269 499 – R317 463 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Calvinia Ref No: S4.1/11/01 (X2 Posts)
Colesberg Ref No: S4.1/11/02 (X2 Posts)
Jan kempdorp Ref No: S4.1/11/03 (X3 Posts)
Mothibistad Ref No: S4.1/11/04 (X4 Posts)
Olifantshoek Ref No: S4.1/11/05 (X1 Post)
190
Richmond Ref No: S4.1/11/06 (X2 Posts)
Springbok Ref No: S4.1/11/07 (X1 Post)
Upington Ref No: S4.1/11/08 (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric Certificate, Traffic Officer Diploma from accredited training institution as
recognised by RTMC. A valid driver's license code B manual transmission
Computer literate Medical Examination proof - Be medical fit and work under
strenuous conditions SAPS Clearance Certificate- No criminal record or case
pending against you Be willing to be vetted. Knowledge And Skills: Good
record and resource management, Good customer relationship management
abilities. Completion of law enforcement documents. Knowledge and
understanding of road traffic and public transport legislation, policies and
guidelines. Knowledge of vehicle inspections and vehicle impoundment.
Knowledge of firearm and ammunition Act 60/2000. Code of conduct within the
Public Service. Knowledge of overload control and escort duties. Knowledge
of operational guidelines on law enforcement equipment. Ability to work under
pressure. Good observation skills (moving violations/defects). Good driving
and negotiation skills. Sound interpersonal and conflict resolution skills. Good
written and verbal communication skills in at least two of the provincial official
languages.
DUTIES : Road Traffic, Public Passenger, Transport and other relevant legislations
Provide visible Traffic Control/ Policing Perform all administrative activities and
related duties Perform standby duties and shifts. Work over weekends and
public holidays when required Attend to accidents and provide traffic control
duties NB: Applicant may be transferred/ deployed to any station within the
province where the need is identify, at the discretion of the department.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs J. Jafta at 069 772 6279/ 078 249 1561
POST 45/302 : CASHIERS SUPERVISOR (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE De Aar (Pixley ka Seme District) Ref No: S4.1/11/09 (X1 Post)
Churchill (John Taolo Gaetsewe district) Ref No: S4.1/11/10 (X1 Post)
Upington (ZF Mgcawu district) Ref No: S4.1/11/11 (X1 Post)
Springbok (Namakwa District) Ref No: S4.1/11/12 (X1 Post)
Kimberley (Frances Baard District) Ref No: S4.1/11/13 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with 3-5 years’ experience in Revenue sector/environment or Post
Matric Qualification in Financial Management/Accounting/Economics Good
interpersonal skills, verbal and written communications skills Ability to work
under pressure and display initiative Planning and general administrative skills
In line with the Competency Framework for Financial Management (CFFM,
National Treasury, 2010), candidates must demonstrate technical
competencies at Level 7-8 in Revenue Management, including thorough
knowledge of the legislative and regulatory framework (e.g., Public Finance
Management Act, 1999; National Road Traffic Act, 1996 and Regulations;
National Treasury Regulations; and departmental
policies/procedures/delegations) applied in complex revenue collection
scenarios. `Key skills include supervising compliance with revenue policies,
overseeing accrate collection/recording/reconciliation of revenue, managing
banking interfaces and safeguarding of cash/source documents, preparing
revenue reports, and interpreting relevant legislation for query resolution.
Attributes required: accountability in monitoring compliance, initiative in policy
implementation, and ethical stewardship in revenue handling. Computer
literacy Computer literacy (proficient in Microsoft Excel for data manipulation
and analysis; data analysis techniques for identifying trends and discrepancies;
creation and maintenance of dashboards for revenue visualisation and
monitoring; and reconciliations of financial records and reporting) Sound
interpersonal and communication skills (written and verbal) Ability to work
independently and deadline driven No criminal record Valid Driver’s License
DUTIES : Supervising subordinates and the activities of registering authority cashiers at
provincial motor vehicle license (MVL) renewals sites Verifying the daily control
and face value count sheets, of registering authorities Performing queries on
the National Traffic Information System (NaTIS) Handling general and NaTIS
related enquiries from clients Verifying and reconcile revenue collected Monitor
the clearing of bank adjustment suspense account Liaising with Provincial
Helpdesk Maintaining proper filing system Interpretation of the National Road
Traffic Act and its Regulations Submitting reports to management Keeping and
maintaining PMDS reports of subordinates To maintain high level of
191
professional ethics To sign contract of confidentiality, National Code of
Conduct, Disciplinary Code on procedures in the Public Service and NaTIS
Undertaking (NUU)
ENQUIRIES : Mrs J. Jafta at 069 772 6279/ 078 249 1561
NOTE : Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply and Youth and Woman are
encouraged to apply.
192
ANNEXURE X
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 26 January 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews
on a date and time as determined by the department. The selection process
will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Should you
experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note that technical
support (challenges with online application) is only available from Monday to
Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries
person as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/303 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO: DEDAT
56/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) with Accounting or Economics as majors; A minimum of 1 year
relevant experience in a financial management or similar environment; A valid
(Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Management; Customer service;
Project Management; Accounting Finance and Audit; Information Technology;
Financial analysis; People Management. Skills in the following: Numeracy;
Computer Literacy in MS Office; Language skills; Presentation; Research;
Excellent verbal and written communication skills; Interpersonal relations;
Flexibility; Innovation; Organising; Delivering Results and Meeting Customer
Expectations; Adhering to Principles and Values; Writing and Reporting;
Presenting and Communicating Information; Working with People; Ability to
work under pressure.
DUTIES : Assist in the co-ordination of the Budgeting and Planning portfolio; Assist in the
co-ordination Revenue and Expenditure Portfolio; Assist in the co-ordination of
the Reporting portfolio.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Le Breton Tel No: (021) 829 9158
POST 45/304 : ADMINISTRATOR: BUSINESS REGULATION REF NO. DEDAT 57/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years administrative experience; A valid (Code
B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving
abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Legal processes; Consumer
Protection, including policies; Provincial and national legislation within the
regulatory environment; Consumer Tribunal/Quasi-judicial/Court processes;
Understanding of the synergy between Office of the Consumer Protector,
Strategic Partners, and Industry bodies in the environment of consumer
protection; Skills in the following: Organising and planning skills; Problem-
solving skills; Facilitation skills; Presentation skills; Analytical skills.
193
DUTIES : Facilitate case flow administration within the Consumer Affairs Tribunal (CAT);
Provide administrative support for CAT hearings; Facilitate stakeholder
engagement; Provide project administration and logistic support.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Nopote Tel No: (021) 483 9411
POST 45/305 : ASSISTANT RECORDS MANAGER: STRATEGIC AND OPERATIONAL
SUPPORT REF NO: DEDAT 58/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1 year experience in records management; A valid
(Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Public Service legislation,
including POPI, PAIA, PAJA; Management and people management
principles; Record Management Systems; Electronic content management;
Policies and prescripts related to records and knowledge management; Project
Management. Skills needed: Planning and organising skills; Problem-solving
skills; Analytical skills; Facilitation and presentation skills; Communication skills
(written and oral); People management skills.
DUTIES : Assist with the maintenance of the department’s physical record systems;
Provide an effective registry service; Assist with the maintenance of electronic
management systems (ECM); Manage Registry Staff work activities; Assist
with ECM, Security, Registry and Accommodation helpdesk requests; Assist
with Knowledge Management and Information function; Assist with the
planning, management and coordination of ICT.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Cheryl Julies Tel No: (021) 483 9000
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS AND DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 26 January 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews
on a date and time as determined by the department. The selection process
will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Should you
experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note that technical
support (challenges with online application) is only available from Monday to
Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries
person as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POST
POST 45/306 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER (PRODUCTION LEVEL): POLLUTION
MONITORING AND INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REF NO:
EADP24/2025
SALARY : R343 842 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning, Western
Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree in Natural, Physical
sciences, environmental science/management, engineering or equivalent
qualification; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to
transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge in the following:
Integrated environmental management processes including the specific
environmental management act promulgated in terms of NEMA and Provincial
194
environmental policies e.g Environmental Impact Assessment and pollution
management; Technical knowledge of the functioning of ecosystems, social
interactions and other environmental aspects; Water and environmental quality
monitoring methodologies and techniques; Functions of statutes governing
other organs of state; Functional knowledge on related sectors/fields e.g.
mining, agriculture, water, industry, forward planning, town and regional
planning. Skills needed: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint etc); Ability to work independently and as part of a team; Reporting
and report writing: Basic statistical analysis; Communication skills (written and
verbal); Presentation skills; Project management; Research.
DUTIES : Provide technical comment on prioritised environmental applications identified
as having high potential pollution risks; Support the development and
implementation of the Water Quality Monitoring Programme for the River
Resource Protection plans and investigative pollution monitoring; Assist with
the development of pollution information management systems, collation,
analysis and reporting of water and environmental quality data; Assist with
general administrative procedures relating to the working environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Davis-Wolmarans Tel No: (021) 483 4656
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference.
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/307 : MEDICAL SUB-SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (VASCULAR SURGERY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 553 670 per annum
Grade 2: R1 773 222 per annum
Grade 3: R1 936 806 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Sub-Specialist in Vascular Surgery. Registration with a professional
council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Sub-Specialist in Vascular
Surgery. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Sub-Specialist in Vascular Surgery. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years
appropriate experience as Medical Sub-Specialist after registration with the
HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a
foreign qualified employee) as Medical Sub-Specialist in Vascular Surgery.
Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as Medical Sub-
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as Medical
Sub-Specialist in Vascular Surgery. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Clinical
and surgical competency in vascular surgery. Ability to work in a high-volume
clinic and surgical environment. Ability to teach and train undergraduate and
post graduate students. Ability to conduct clinically relevant research in the field
of vascular surgery.
DUTIES : Vascular Surgery clinical service provision and management in the Groote
Schuur Hospital, Vascular Unit. Management and training of surgical staff.
Participation in academic and management activities of the division.
ENQUIRIES : Prof L Cairncross Tel No: (021) 406-6229
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
195
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Please ensure that you attach an
updated CV. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within
Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of three months from the date of the
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/308 : MANAGER: MEDICAL SERVICES GRADE 1
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 422 810 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Southern Cape TB Centre (Harry Comay Hospital), George Sub-district &
Uniondale Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: A minimum of 3 years’
experience as Medical Officer after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Practitioner. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness and skills to do after
hours work. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/
skills): Excellent communication skills on all levels. Strong business orientation
with proven skills and abilities in the clinical management of a health service.
Proven management competencies specific to a health-care environment.
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Internet and email).
Appropriate experience of managing clinical services.
DUTIES : Strategic and operational management of all health service platforms at Harry
Comay Hospital, George Primary Health Care Services and Uniondale
Hospital. Ensure safe clinical services and practices that comply with
professional laws of the country and compatible with acceptable clinical
practices. Set up systems to manage quality assurance in the Sub District to
ensure support of the patient centred experience, compliance to national core
standards, Ideal clinic standards and improved information management.
Provide operational support to the office of the Director by effective and
efficient use of allocated human, financial, infrastructure and health technology
resources and to support service delivery of all the health service platforms in
the Sub District. Develop internal and external key partnerships in the sub-
district to ensure a WOSA to address the BoD and move to a wellness
approach.
ENQUIRIES : Ms H Le Roux Tel No: (044) 803-2700
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/ oral assessment. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/309 : CLINICAL MANAGER (MEDICAL) GRADE 1
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 422 810 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Klipfontein/Mitchells Plain Sub-Structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as a Medical
Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the
HPSCA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Minimum of 3 years appropriate
experience as Medical Officer after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Practitioner. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s licence (Code
B/EB) and willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strong
leadership, organisational operational and contingency planning skills.
Independent decision-making and problem-solving skills. Good knowledge of
196
applicable legislation, regulations and provincial policies. Proven management
competencies in a public health environment. Appropriate experience of
managing health services. Management experience at a Health Facility.
DUTIES : Overall strategic, clinical and corporate governance for the
Klipfontein/Mitchells Plain Sub-Structure. Ensure Quality Assurance and
Medico Legal services for the Sub-structure. Clinical Governance systems
design to support service improvement initiatives/innovation. Ensure
implementation of service re-design and support within ecosystems. Ensure
compliance with finance and supply chain processes with a focus on efficient
service provision. Act as custodian of the clinical governance (internal and
external) and mentoring of clinical staff in the Sub-structure. Co-ordinate and
facilitate outreach and support within the ecosystem and to surrounding PHC
facilities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Olckers Tel No: (021) 370-5007
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical, and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/310 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (PEADIATRIC SURGERY)
(6 Months Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Paediatric Surgery. Registration with a professional
council: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as
Medical Specialist in Paediatric Surgery. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Paediatric Surgery. Grade
2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Paediatric Surgery (or
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees). Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as
Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in
Paediatric Surgery (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees). Inherent requirements of the job:
Experience in management of general and specialist paediatric surgery
including trauma and burns. Commuted Overtime of 16 hours per week.
Willingness to travel within the District and Metro Region. Valid Driver’s
Licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Involvement in all aspects of
Paediatric surgery will be required. Ability to comprehensively manage all
paediatric surgery cases including intensive management of tertiary level
patients. Proven leadership abilities. Experience in supervision and training of
staff in acquiring paediatric surgical, burns and trauma management
competencies and operative experience. Experience and effective
management of allocated resources. Proven experience in teamwork. Proven
knowledge/skills and experience in principles of service planning, organizing,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation. Proven ability to adhere to all
departmental requirements and protocols. Proven knowledge of public health
and public health policies, guidelines and related prescript to manage
resources effectively. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provide full time paediatric surgery specialist care including Outpatient,
Inpatient, Emergency and Afterhours service as a specialist paediatric
surgeon. Including, but are not limited to General Paediatric surgery at a
tertiary service level including colorectal, GIT, oncology and hepatobiliary
surgery at a junior consultant level and paediatric burns and trauma service.
Provide support to HCU Paediatric Surgery. Administrative duties, including
197
quality, efficiency and outcome improvements. Participation in human resource
management. Clinical audit, data management, monitoring and evaluation and
clinical governance. Participation in all academic activities of the department,
research, and teaching and training of under- and post-graduate students and
other health personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Prof Sharon Cox Tel No: (021) 685 5012 Email: Sharon.Cox@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Red Cross Hospital for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/311 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (FAMILY MEDICINE)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Oudtshoorn Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Family Medicine. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Family Medicine.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Specialist in Family Medicine. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees) as Medical Specialist in Family Medicine. Grade 3: A minimum of
10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with
the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in Family Medicine. Inherent
requirements of the job: A commuted overtime contract is compulsory, as well
as the ability to work after-hours. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license, as well as
willingness and ability to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge
of a public health approach to delivering integrated family medicine services.
Ability to work in integrated multi-disciplinary teams across platforms. Clinical,
leadership, administrative, teaching, and mentoring skills. Computer literacy in
MS Office is mandatory. Creativity to develop new ideas, which can result in
positive changes to existing processes. Systems thinking and innovation.
DUTIES : Specialist family medicine care to patients (all age groups) in Oudtshoorn &
Kannaland Sub-Districts. Participate in clinical governance of a growing
integrated district family medicine health service with a focus on successful
COPC implementation and innovation in primary care and chronic disease
management. Teaching and clinical supervision of junior and allied health
practitioners, generalists and medical students within the Oudtshoorn &
Kannaland Sub-Districts.
ENQUIRIES : Dr E Heydenrych Tel No: (044) 203-7204
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
198
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Garden Route District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/312 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (NUCLEAR MEDICINE)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Nuclear Medicine. Registration with the professional
council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Nuclear
Medicine. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in Nuclear Medicine. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
(or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign
qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Nuclear Medicine. Grade 3: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in
Nuclear Medicine. Inherent requirements of the job: Commuted overtime is
compulsory. Emergency and after hour call cover. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to perform and report all nuclear medicine studies
and procedures, including therapy. Work with a team of hospital clinicians to
optimise patient services. Knowledge and understanding of relevant
legislation, hospital procedures and policies. Excellent written and verbal
communication skills. It will be expected of the successful candidate to
participate in a system of remunerated commuted overtime and collaboration
with the Stellenbosch University Node for Infection Imaging (NII).
DUTIES : Clinical image reporting and therapy service provision in all areas of nuclear
medicine. Ensure maintenance of quality care standards in nuclear medicine
services. Guide to staff, teaching, training, and supervision of staff. Efficient
use of resources, manage assets, consumables, and services effectively.
Participate in teaching program activities, tutorials and assessments as part of
the student training programs. Performance of own research and research
supervision.
ENQUIRIES : Prof J Warwick Tel No: (021) 938-4372
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
as Medical Specialist in Nuclear Medicine with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/313 : SENIOR REGISTRAR (NEUROPSYCHIATRY AND LIAISON PSYCHIATRY)
(X2 POSTS)
(2-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 341 855 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
199
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Registration with the Professional Council
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Psychiatry Independent
Practice. Inherent requirements of the job: Commuted overtime is compulsory
(Liaison Psychiatry). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Outreach to district and
specialist hospitals. Assessment, diagnosis and treatment of inpatients and
outpatients with acute and chronic neuropsychiatric disorders, including
conditions associated with neuroHIV, TBI, epilepsy and other related
conditions. Communication including report generation, letter writing,
consultation. Effective and efficient administration. Facilitation of management
system. MMED and FCPsych (SA) qualifications.
DUTIES : Teaching and Training/Supervision of Junior Staff. Clinical Service Provision.
Clinical Governance and Administration. Completion of the logbook of
neuropsychiatric cases, presentations and medicolegal aspects. Effective and
efficient administration of clinical records and patient reports. Presentations at
conferences. Initiate and complete appropriate research project for MPhil in
Neuropsychiatry. Participate in the teaching programmes of the Department at
a level appropriate to training and experience. Undertake and complete
College of Medicine examination for the Certificate Neuropsychiatry (SA).
ENQUIRIES : Prof J Joska Tel No: (021) 404 2164 or john.joska@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status)”. Appointment as Senior Registrar will be for a maximum
contract period of 2 years. Senior Registrars will function across health
facilities, as per an agreed programme. Consideration will be given to existing
employees who are already on higher salary packages to retain their existing
salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled to receive pay
progression. Appointment as Senior Registrar will be on contract. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post. Please ensure that you attach an updated CV. Groote
Schuur Hospital has adopted the department’s ecosystem framing of its
training platform. Accordingly, all registrar appointments may be called upon to
work across this platform and may include rotations at Metro West and Rural
East hospitals. This includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital,
New Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and
George Provincial Hospital. The Department of Health is guided by the
principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with disability are encouraged to
apply and an indication in this regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar
posts within the Department will be identified as part of the Affirmative Action
programme to create a representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable
procedures. Preference will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with
a valid identity document. Registrars will be required to register as post-
graduates with Stellenbosch University/University of Cape Town according to
the yearbook and guidelines.” Should registration with the HEI as a student be
discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Registrar also discontinues.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/314 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (FAMILY PHYSICIAN)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R 1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Crossroads Community Day Centre
200
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Family Medicine. Registration with the professional
council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Family
Medicine. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in Family Medicine. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
(or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign
qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Family Medicine. Grade 3: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or a recognized foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in
Family Medicine. Inherent requirements of the job: A Valid driver’s licence.
Working Commuted Overtime at the 24-hour facilities. Willingness to work at
other facilities in the Sub-structure. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
leadership, clinical and communication skills. Knowledge of Community
Orientated Primary Care approach and ability to engage all relevant
stakeholders in the Ecosystem. Experience in facilitating clinical teaching,
learning and assessment of both undergraduate and postgraduate health
sciences students. Participate in on call rosters.
DUTIES : Clinical services as a consultant and clinician. Clinical teaching and training.
Clinical Governance and quality management. Academic educational
activities, teaching undergraduate and postgraduate students, and research.
People management of clinical staff and supporting the budget management
related to clinical services.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. J Morgan, e-mail: Jennie.Morgan@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). -The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical,
and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/315 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
(Contract until March 2028)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Forensic Pathology Services; Forensic Medicine, Stellenbosch University
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allow
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Specialist in Forensic Pathology. Registration with the professional council:
Appropriate registration with the Health Professions Council (HPCSA) as a
Specialist in Forensic Pathology. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Forensic Pathology. Grade 2: A
minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of foreign qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in in Forensic
Pathology. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as
Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees) as
Medical Specialist in in Forensic Pathology. Inherent requirements of the job:
201
Valid Code E/EB Driver’s License. Will be required to deliver expert testimony
in court proceedings. Will be required to perform routine service autopsies. Will
be required to perform work duties outside normal working hours and away
from the base of employment. Availability to travel to regional facilities to offer
a service for limited periods. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of
the functioning of a Forensic Pathology Department. Exposure to Post-
mortems, autopsy work and dissection. Good interpersonal skills including
effective service delivery within a group situation at all levels of authority.
Research ability. Ability to teach and train Medical students, Forensic
Pathology Officers and Medical staff. Working knowledge of the legislation,
policies and code of conduct pertaining to Forensic Pathology Practice in the
Republic of South Africa. Creativity and openness to new ideas. Ability to
communicate clearly and discreetly in person and in writing. Computer literacy
(Microsoft Word, Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft Excel).
DUTIES : Provide full-time medico-legal death investigative service within the Division of
Forensic Medicine by performance of and supervising post-mortems of natural
and unnatural deaths. Provide full-time medico-legal death investigative
service within the Division of Forensic Medicine by compiling and completing
reports, including all ancillary investigations and editing reports of junior staff
members. Expert testimony in court as well as expert opinion on inquest
dockets or the relevant cases as requested by the Department of Justice.
Academic teaching and Training, Research, Clinical governance and quality
assurance. Support to the Head: Clinical Unit with all administrative functions
of the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Dr J Verster, email: jverster@sun.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Candidates may have to undergo
profiling assessments prior to appointment. “The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within (Forensic Pathology Service, Division:
Forensic Medicine, Stellenbosch University), for a period of three months from
the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/316 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (PAEDIATRICS)
Chief Directorate; Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 1: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in
Paediatrics. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as
Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees) as
Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid SA driver’s license. Participate in the after-hours call system.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Proven clinical competencies to manage
ambulatory and in-patient Paediatric services. Proven abilities and experience
in leadership and supervision. Proven experience in principles of planning,
202
organizing and implementation. Proven knowledge of public health policies,
guidelines and related prescript to manage resources effectively. Computer
literacy.
DUTIES : Provide comprehensive, efficient and cost-effective patient-centred Paediatric
services that is of high quality. Ensure strong Clinical Governance through
appropriate clinical audits, quality improvement and research within the
department to stay abreast of clinical development. Create a learning
environment for students, junior staff and peers at both under- and
postgraduate level as required. Improve service delivery in the Rural Central
Ecosystem through Outreach and Support to referral centers in the drainage
area of Worcester Hospital. Ensure strong Corporate Governance through
effective and efficient financial and physical resources, as well as adherence
to requirements for all People Management matters.
ENQUIRIES : Dr JJ Fourie Tel No: (023) 348-1101
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for vacancies within Worcester Regional Hospital for a period of 3
months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/317 : CHIEF ENGINEER: GRADE A
SALARY : Grade A: R1 266 450 per annum, A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Degree in electrical or mechanical
engineering (B Eng/BSc Eng). Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a
Professional Engineer. Certificated Engineer. Experience: A minimum of 6
years post qualification experience required as a registered professional
Engineer. Extensive experience in the maintenance and operation of
machinery and electrical systems. Extensive experience in Hospital
engineering (or similar domain/industry) Experience in the functioning of
medical equipment and the application of health technologies. Experience in
personnel management. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid Code EB/B
driver's license. Working outside normal hours per, travel and stay away from
home. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Able to train and transfer knowledge
and skills, have good planning, organizing, people- and performance
management skills and Computer literacy, particularly in MS Office (MS Word,
Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint). Able to write, understand and interpret
specifications for electrical and medical equipment and apply this to
procurement, to prepare policy reports, submissions and presentations, to plan
and execute research in related fields. Be fit and able to climb onto, over and
under machinery and services for the purpose of inspecting, repairing, or
adjusting. Knowledge and adherence to Occupational Health and Safety Act
(Act 85 of 1993), Hazardous Substances Act (Act 15 of 1973, Understanding
of the Comprehensive Health Services Plan of the Department, International
Hospital Engineering Standards, Public Finance Management Act (Act 1 of
1999). Treasury Regulations, Treasury Practice Notes and Circulars,
Accounting Officer System, Public Service Act and Regulations, Labour
Relations Act and Regulations.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of effective, efficient and affordable engineering services
through inspections, maintenance, repair, training, evaluation and modification.
Serve as the competent person in terms of the Occupational Health and Safety
Act (regulations pertaining to electrical and mechanical installations) and
provide occupational and equipment safety services. Provide engineering input
regarding construction projects and technical feedback to hospital
203
management. Management of the allocated financial and human resources to
achieve the pre-determined performance indicators and service delivery
imperatives. Contract management in terms of putting Engineering contracts
in place and management thereof. Prepare policy reports, submissions and
presentations.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S De Vries Tel No: (021) 404-3178/9
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A
practical/competency test may form part of the shortlisting and/or interview
process. No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The
pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur
Hospital, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/318 : PRIMARY HEALTH CARE MANAGER
Overberg District
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Overstrand Sub-district, Hermanus
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 4-year Health related National
Diploma/Degree or equivalent, registrable with a South African Statutory
Health Professions Council or South African Nursing Council. Experience:
Appropriate/recognisable experience in District Heath Systems/Management/
Services. Appropriate experience in PHC Management. Inherent requirements
of the job: Valid (Code B/EB/CI) driver’s licence. Willingness to travel within the
district. Availability to work after hours, when required. Be able to work
independently and in a multi-disciplinary team. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Managerial skills, strategic thinking, interpretation and
articulation skills. Sound knowledge of professional ethics. Computer literacy
(i.e., MS Word, PowerPoint and Excel). Good intra- and interpersonal skills
aimed at professional relational development, maintenance of good
professional relations and effective conflict resolution. Adaptable and
innovative in a high-pressure environment and to work independently and in
different clinical settings. Good communication skills. Be able to work
independently and in a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Operational and strategic management of Primary Health Care services for the
sub-district. Manage critical support services. Adequate financial planning and
control. HR planning and management. Liaison and interaction with
micro/specific and macro/general environment-Networking.
ENQUIRIES : Dr F Fourie Tel No: (028) 312-1166
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be required to undergo a competency assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/319 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (OBSTETRICS AND GYNAECOLOGY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with the professional council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of who is not required to perform Community
204
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
medical practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years relevant experience after registration as a medical practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of who is not required to perform Community Service as required
in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a
Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a medical practitioner
in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant
experience after registration as a medical practitioner with a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of who
is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: Participate in the after-hours call system.
Competent and willing to work across disciplines if required. A valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s license and willingness to travel. Participate in termination of
pregnancy services within guidelines and protocols. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Sufficient appropriate clinical experience in the
management of obstetrics and gynaecology in- and outpatients, since
obtaining the degree of MBChB. Surgical competency in caesarean sections,
evacuation of uteruses and obstetrics and gynaecology ultrasound
performance will count in your favour. Diploma in Obstetrics and Gynaecology.
Good work etiquette; excellent communication skills; conflict management;
cost conscious care provision. Good technology and computer skills; problem-
solving experience; leadership and mentoring experience. Performance of
audits or research Proven knowledge of public health policies, guidelines and
related prescript to manage resources effectively.
DUTIES : Clinical service provision: Provide efficient and cost-effective clinical service of
high quality with a patient centered focus, addressing the burden of disease in
the Rural East Geographical Service area (GSA). Effective clinical
administration in maintaining high quality clinical patient records and reports.
Financial management by effective and efficient use of resources. Adhere to
requirements for all HR matters and Code of Conduct. Participate in the
teaching program. Active participation in Research and Professional
Development and clinical governance activities in the unit. The desired
candidate will be required to set an appropriate example of an exemplary
medical practitioner and serve as a role model and clinical mentor to junior
doctors and associated clinical staff, supervising and teaching community
service medical officers, interns and medical students and liaise with
consultants daily.
ENQUIRIES : Dr HA Swart Tel No: (044) 802-4616/4437
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within George Regional Hospital, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/320 : REGISTRAR (DENTAL) (ORTHODONTICS) (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(4-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Oral Health Centres
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: A qualification that allows registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Dentist.
205
Registration with the professional council: Registration with the HPCSA as a
Dentist (Independent Practice). Inherent requirements of the job: A valid
driver’s license. Registrars will be required to register as postgraduate students
with the University of the Western Cape as applicable according to the
requirements for the discipline in the yearbook and guidelines. Primaries and/or
Postgraduate qualifications relevant to Orthodontics. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience after registration as a Dentist
(Independent Practitioner).
DUTIES : Rendering of service and research on combined platforms as determined by
the Head of department. Undergraduate teaching and training on the platform
of Oral Health Centre (including satellite clinics) as required by the Head of
Department. Completion of the 4 years (48 months) academic requirements for
MChD Degree at UWC. Administration duties as determined by the Head of
Department.
ENQUIRIES : Prof D Joubert Tel No: (021) 937-3121/3106 or email: dejoubert@uwc.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written and oral assessment. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Appointment as Registrar
will be for a maximum contract period of 4 years. It may become necessary to
second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during their period of
training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to any decision
being implemented. Registrars will function across health facilities, as per an
agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a student be
discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Registrar also discontinues.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be
on contract. -Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension
benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions.
The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this
regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will
be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with University of the
Western Cape according to the yearbook and guidelines. “Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/321 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
(4-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Forensic Pathology Services; Forensic Medicine, Stellenbosch University
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
an Independent Medical Practitioner. Registration with the professional
council: Appropriate registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa (HPCSA) as an Independent Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirements
of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver's license. It will be expected of the successful
candidate to participate in a system of Remunerated Commuted Overtime and
206
will be expected to provide proof of work completed after hours during
commuted overtime capture. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Display
knowledge and all other prescripts that concerns the functioning of a Forensic
Medicine Department and continuous learning and improvement of knowledge
and skills. Ability to adhere to requests, follow advice and instructions from
consultants and confirm to divisional protocols. Ability to adhere to safety
standards. Problem solving abilities, as can be expected from a Registrar in
Forensic Pathology Service. Continuous academic input and contribution,
including case and topic presentations, conference participation, research and
participation in all academic activities in the Division. Ability to communicate
clearly and discreetly in person and in writing. Ability to work well within a group
at all levels of authority. Ability to travel to peripheral FPS facilities should it be
required to render a supportive function at other facilities in terms of service
delivery requirements. Ability to consult with the responsible consultant when
unsure of how to proceed with a case or related problem and inform a
consultant whenever any work-related complication arises. Ability to work
under pressure. Organizational skills. Rendering effective and efficient service
under consultant supervision. Medical Research capabilities. Ability to
successfully complete at least one research project conforming to the MMED
requirements of the University of Stellenbosch during duration of the Registrar
contract. Computer literacy (Microsoft Word, Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft
Excel).
DUTIES : To render effective and efficient forensic autopsy service. To render effective
and efficient forensic pathology case follow up service. Effective administration
and medico-legal duties. Effective and efficient management of service area.
Effective delivery of training, teaching and operational research, conforming to
academic responsibilities.
ENQUIRIES : Dr J Verster, email: jverster@sun.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment for the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of interview. “The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within (Forensic Pathology Service, Division:
Forensic Medicine, Stellenbosch University), for a period of three months from
the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.” -
Other: Registrars will be required to register as post-graduate students with
Stellenbosch University as applicable according to the requirements for the
discipline in the yearbook and guidelines. *Preference will be given to SA
citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document. Employees in
service who opt to continue with their pension benefits as Registrar, will be
required to resign after completion of their Registrarship should they not be
successful for advertised Specialist positions. Appointment conditions and
rotation: Appointment of Registrars will be for a maximum contract period of 4
years (or 5 years dependent on the minimum requirements of the post). It may
become necessary to second/ transfer staff to another hospital/ institution
during their period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior
to any decision being implemented. Registrars will function across health
facilities, as per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a
student be discontinued for any reason, the appointment as a Registrar also
discontinues. Consideration will be given to existing employees who are
already on higher salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as
personal. As such they are entitled to receive pay progression.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/322 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (ANAESTHETICS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs)
207
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Officer. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration
as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees.
1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of who is not required to perform Community Service as required
in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a
Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner
in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant
experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner
after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA
qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years relevant experience after
registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the
job: Participate in the after-hours call system. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Proven experience in principles of planning, organizing and
implementation. Proven knowledge of public health policies, guidelines and
related prescript to manage resources effectively. Competent and willing to
work across disciplines if required.
DUTIES : Ensure an efficient and cost-effective clinical service of high quality with a
patient centered focus and addressing the burden of disease in the Worcester
healthcare ecosystem. Ensure compliance by means of maintaining high
quality clinical records. Financial management by effective and efficient use of
resources. Adhere to requirements for all HR matters and Code of Conduct.
ENQUIRIES : Dr C van der Westhuizen Tel No: (023) 348-1141
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for vacancies within Worcester Regional Hospital for a period of 3
months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/323 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3: SURGERY (OPHTHALMOLOGY)
(1-Year Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the
208
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job:
Commuted overtime is compulsory. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability
to work well within a group at all levels of authority. Ability to communicate with
patients and colleagues. Computer literate to facilitate patient care, research
and administration. Ability to use a slit lamp and do a basic eye examination.
Basic ophthalmology clinical and surgical experience. An interest in learning
ophthalmology and commitment to service.
DUTIES : Clinical Service Provision. Management and administration. Research and
professional development. To be responsible for consulting room provisioning.
Teaching and training.
ENQUIRIES : Prof N Du Toit Tel No: (021) 406-6216
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Please ensure
that you attach an updated CV. The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of three months from the
date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the department’s ecosystem framing of
its training platform. Accordingly, all medical officer appointments may be
called upon to work across this platform and may include rotations at Metro
West and Rural East hospitals. This includes Red Cross War Memorial
Children's Hospital, New Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital,
Victoria Hospital and George Provincial Hospital. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/324 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Montagu Hospital, Langeberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as a Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. One-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as a Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
209
Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
(code B/EB) driver’s licence. Compulsory commuted Overtime duties.
Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Sound knowledge of general medical and
surgical conditions at district hospital and Primary Health Care level and
knowledge applicable to the South African TB and HIV care guidelines.
Comprehensive evidence-based, direct patient-centred Clinical Service
Provision in the sub-district Health Service and computer literacy (MS Excel,
Word, Outlook etc.) and good interpersonal, organizational and teamwork
skills. Competent in performing district level procedures including performance
of caesarian sections, administration of spinal and general anesthesia,
management of chronic conditions and HIV/TB care, maternal and child health
as well as emergency medical care including adult and neonatal resuscitations.
Ability and willingness to do outreach services to clinics throughout the
Langeberg Sub-district and guiding health care colleagues in managing difficult
district-level cases.
DUTIES : Provide quality care to patients at Robertson, Montagu Hospital and
surrounding clinics in the Langeberg Sub District and healthcare facilities.
Provide Outreach and Support service to PHC facilities in the Langeberg sub-
district. Actively participate in skills transfer, training, and academic
opportunities relevant to the post. Active involvement in the clinical governance
of Langeberg sub-district facilities as required.
ENQUIRIES : Dr A Williams Tel No: (023) 626-8539
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Langeberg Sub District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/325 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RURAL HUB TECHNICAL SERVICES
Directorate: Engineering and Technical Services
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (Engineering Services located in Worcester)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate National Diploma in
Engineering (Mechanical /Electrical) or equivalent relevant qualification.
Experience: Appropriate/recognisable managerial experience in health care
engineering and maintenance after obtaining the relevant qualification e.g.
National Diploma in Engineering. Appropriate experience in design,
specification and maintenance of hospital infrastructure. Appropriate
experience in the compilation of specifications and procurement
documentation. Inherent requirements of the job: Willing to work overtime, stay
away and travel throughout the Western Cape Province, often at short notice.
Willing to assist in other institutions and directorates. Physically fit and able to
inspect buildings and related engineering infrastructure and machinery. Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge in
the compilation of specifications and tender documentation. Contracts and
quality management skills. Knowledge of risk analysis and risk mitigation
strategies and prioritisation. Conversant with OHSA and pertaining to relevant
prescripts and regulations. Conversant with NEC contracts especially the
210
Short-, Term service- and Framework agreement forms of contracts. Computer
literate (MS Word. Auto CAD and Excel). Budgeting and planning of workshop
activities to support the province with maintenance activities. Sound
interpersonal and good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Management and provision of an effective, efficient, and affordable Hospital
Engineering Services. Monitor and evaluate maintenance projects according
to the strategy, plans, and provide feedback to all stakeholders. Perform
inspections and provide transversal technical guidance and advice to Health
Facilities within the Province. Implementation of projects and direct technical
support to facilities. Finance and Supply Chain Management. People
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Du Toit, email: Karien.DuToit@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A
practical/competency test may form part of the shortlisting and/or interview
process, a full job description is available upon request. Candidates may be
subjected to a competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/326 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: METRO HUB TECHNICAL SERVICES
Directorate: Engineering and Technical Services
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured to the
individual’s personal needs)
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town, (Maintenance workshops located in Lentegeur
and Retreat)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate National Diploma in
Engineering (Mechanical /Electrical) or equivalent relevant qualification.
Experience: Appropriate/recognisable managerial experience in health care
engineering and maintenance after obtaining the relevant qualification e.g.
National Diploma in Engineering. Appropriate experience in design,
specification and maintenance of hospital infrastructure. Appropriate
experience in the compilation of specifications and procurement
documentation. Inherent requirements of the job: Willing to work overtime and
travel throughout the Cape Metro and parts of the Western Cape Province,
often at short notice. Willing to assist in other institutions and directorates.
Physically fit and able to inspect buildings and related engineering
infrastructure and machinery. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge in the compilation of
specifications and tender documentation. Contracts and quality management
skills. Knowledge of risk analysis and risk mitigation strategies and
prioritisation. Conversant with OHSA and pertaining to relevant prescripts and
regulations. Conversant with NEC contracts especially the Short-, Term
service- and Framework agreement forms of contracts. Computer literate (MS
Word. Auto CAD and Excel). Budgeting and planning of workshop activities to
support the province with maintenance activities. Sound interpersonal and
good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Management and provision of an effective, efficient, and affordable Hospital
Engineering Services. Monitor and evaluate maintenance projects according
to the strategy, plans and provide feedback to all stakeholders. Perform
inspections and provide transversal technical guidance and advice to Health
Facilities within the Province. Implementation of projects and direct technical
support to facilities. Finance and Supply Chain Management. People
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Du Toit, email at Karien.DuToit@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A
practical/competency test may form part of the shortlisting and/or interview
process, a full job description is available upon request.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/327 : PSYCHOLOGIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R872 709 per annum
211
Grade 2: R1 014 705 per annum
Grade 3: R1 174 848 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration as a Clinical Psychologist with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa (HPCSA). Registration with the professional council: Registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa and registration with the
HPCSA in the category Clinical Psychologist. Inherent requirements of the job:
Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Computer Literate. Willingness to travel in
the sub-district/ district to consult clients, attend and conduct meetings and
training sessions. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and/or
experience in counselling, psychometric assessments, and identification of
mental health challenges. Work within your professional scope of practice and
know when to refer for more specialized mental health interventions, must be
abreast of the Mental Health Care Act and other laws and policies pertaining
to the field and have a sound knowledge of professional ethics. Computer
literacy (i.e., MS Word, PowerPoint and Excel). Good intra- and interpersonal
skills aimed at professional relational development, maintenance of good
professional relations and effective conflict resolution. Adaptable and
innovative in a high-pressured environment and to work independently and in
different clinical settings.
DUTIES : Ensure that mental health services include treatment, prevention, promotion
and protection of mental health care users and other vulnerable groups through
relevant intervention programs and strategies. Ensure that quality mental
health services are provided according to professional standards and ethical
principles. Establish Referral pathways and coordination with all stakeholders.
Include Suicide and Substance use disorders prevention. Inter-sectoral and
inter-disciplinary collaboration and coordination. Provide supervision,
mentoring and support to lay health workers and Registered Counsellors, as
part of the sub district and district mental health teams.
ENQUIRIES : Dr T Cyster Tel No: (021) 360-4622
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates could be subjected to a competency test. Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview.” This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status)”. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Khayelitsha Eastern Sub Structure, for a period of three months from the
date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/328 : CANDIDATE CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER
Directorate: Infrastructure Programme Delivery, (9 Lower Burg Street, Cape
Town CBD)
(Two Year Contract, Renewable for a Maximum of Three Years)
SALARY : R761 157 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the personal needs)
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An Honours degree in the Built
Environment field of study: BTech qualification (Built Environment field) with a
minimum of one (1) year experience. National higher diploma (Built
Environment field) with a minimum of eighteen months experience. National
diploma (Built Environment field) with a minimum of two (2) years’ experience.
Registration with the professional Council: Registration as a Candidate
Construction Project Manager with The South African Council for the Project
and Construction Management Profession (South African Council for the
212
Construction Project Management Professions). Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) licence. Willingness to travel within the Western Cape,
and occasionally, nationally. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer
literacy (MS Office). Contract documentation and administration experience
within the built environment Understanding of the design and construction of
complex buildings with specific reference to healthcare facilities. Experience in
the preparation of reports, submissions and presentations in English. Sound
interpersonal and good verbal and written communication skills in programme
and project management. Ability to work in a team. Sound interpersonal skills.
Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Construction Industry Development Board Act of 2000
and Regulations. Construction Procurement System. Expanded Public Works
Programme. National Building Standards Act of 1977 and Regulations.
Government Immovable Asset Management Act of 2007. Occupational Health
and Safety Act and Regulations of 1993. Project and Construction
Management Professions Act of 2000. Health Act and Regulations, Act 61 of
2003. National Environmental Management Act of 1998. Joint Building
Contracts Committee (JBCC) and New Engineering Contract (NEC)
construction contracts. Construction Procurement Standard as Issued by
Construction Industry Development Board (CIDB).
DUTIES : Leading & Stewarding for Health and Well-being Cultivating people’s centric
care and organisational Culture Fostering collaborative policymaking. and
strategy alignment. Building ethical and just decision-making systems, project
Implementation and monitoring Strategic support to Whole of Government
Agenda Project Management of several Health Facility Projects. Programme
Management and Reporting, Monitoring and Oversight. Implementation of
projects in accordance with Framework for Infrastructure Delivery and
Procurement Management (FIDPM). Stakeholder Engagement. Systems and
Reporting improvement and optimization.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Graham, email: Gavin.Graham@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/329 : CANDIDATE ENGINEER
Directorate: Infrastructure Programme Delivery (9 Lower Burg Street, Cape
Town CBD)
(Two Year Contract, Renewable for a Maximum of Three Years)
SALARY : R761 157 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs)
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Engineering degree (B Eng/ BSC (Eng) or
relevant qualification. Registration with the Professional Council: Registration
as a Candidate Engineer with Engineering Council of South Africa. Experience:
No experience required. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Willingness to travel within the Western Cape, and
occasionally, nationally. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy
(MS Office) and computer aided engineering applications, particularly Excel.
Power Business Intelligence (BI) is advantageous. Contract documentation
and administration experience in and understanding of the design and
construction of complex buildings with specific reference to healthcare facilities
including problem solving, engineering design and analysis. Experience in
designing and monitoring the construction of building services engineering
systems for healthcare facilities or similar buildings. Knowledge of risk analysis
and risk mitigation strategies. Experience in the preparation of reports,
submissions and presentations in English. Sound interpersonal and good
verbal and written communication skills in programme and project
management. Ability to work in a team. Sound interpersonal skills. Ability to
work under pressure and meet deadlines. Systems and Reporting
improvement and optimisation. Knowledge of legal compliance and formulation
of policies in a multi-disciplinary professional environment. Construction
Industry Development Board Act of 2000 and Regulations. Construction
Procurement System. Expanded Public Works Programme. Broad Based
Black Empowerment Act of 2003. Preferential Procurement Act of 2000 and
Regulations. Engineering Profession Act of 2000. National Building Standards
213
Act of 1977 and Regulations. Government Immovable Asset Management Act
of 2007. Occupational Health and Safety Act and Regulations of 1993. Health
Act and Regulations, Act 61 of 2003. Joint Building Contracts Committee
(JBCC) and New Engineering Contract (NEC) construction contracts.
Construction Procurement Standard as Issued by Contractor Industry
Development Board (CIDB).
DUTIES : Project Management of several Health Facility Projects Programme
Management & Reporting Monitoring & Oversight. Implementation of projects
in accordance with Framework for Infrastructure Delivery and Procurement
Management (FIDPM). Stakeholder Engagement. Application of Technical
Engineering expertise. Systems and Reporting improvement and optimization.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Graham, email: Gavin.Graham@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/330 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING: GENERAL (NIGHT DUTY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
degree/diploma) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife/Accoucheur. Registration with the professional council: Registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife/Accoucheur. Experience:
A minimum of 8 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least
3 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable
experience at management level. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to work shifts, public holidays, after-hours,
standby and weekend cover for nursing and travel to attend official meetings
and/or trainings. Deputising for the Deputy Manager Nursing: Head of Nursing
and willingness to act for another member of the Nurse Management team.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Demonstrates an in-depth understanding of
nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices and how it
impacts on service delivery in a rural regional hospital environment.
Demonstrates a clear understanding of Infection Prevention and Control,
Occupational Health and Safety and Risk Management – including Ideal
Facility and the Office of Health Standard Compliance. Ensure that clinical
nursing practice is rendered by the nursing team and promote quality of nursing
care as directed by the scope of practice and standards. Managerial,
leadership skills and values: integrity, innovative visionary, catalyst for change,
self-awareness and confidence, delegation, accountability, problem solving &
decision making, conflict resolution, interpersonal and communication skills.
Very knowledgeable and demonstrates a good understanding of People
Management (Human Resource Management). Demonstrates a good
understanding of financial policies and practices. Knowledgeable about
relevant legislation pertaining to labour relations, nursing legislation, related
legal and ethical nursing practices, relevant public sector policies and
protocols. Computer Literacy in MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook.
DUTIES : Overall coordination, implementation and monitoring of the strategic objectives
of nursing, the facility and the Department of Health and Wellness. Effective
management and coordination of quality nursing care within set standards and
within legal and professional frameworks. Manage and facilitate both human
resources and financial resources. Management of information through the
collection and analysis of data, report writing and development and
implementation of relevant interventions. Policy development and
implementation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Bruiners Tel No: (023) 348-1104
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for vacancies within Worcester Regional Hospital
for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core
214
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/331 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY: MATERNITY, MOU)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Macassar CDC, Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least one year
accredited with the SANC in Advance Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing
Science. Registration with the professional council: Registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A minimum of 9 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period of the above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the
specific specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification a
mentioned above. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Willingness to work after hours. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Principles of Management: leadership, supervision, problem solving, conflict
resolution, interpersonal and communication skills. Knowledge of relevant
legislation pertaining to: Labour Relations, Nursing Legislation, related Legal
and Ethical Nursing Practices and Framework and relevant Public Sector
Policies and Protocols. Human Resources and Financial Management,
including computer literacy (MS, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Outlook).
DUTIES : Responsible for the coordination and delivery of quality nursing care within the
allocated Maternal Child and Woman’s Health department. Participate in
formulating, monitoring and implementation of policies, guidelines, standards,
procedures, and regulations pertaining to nursing care within the relevant
department. Provide effective support and management of human, material
and financial resources, as well as functional business FBU management
principles. Manage staff performance training and personal development of
self and subordinates, including management of under-performance and
grievances. Collect, provide, and use relevant information for the enhancement
of service delivery. Participate in and encourage nursing research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Viana Tel No: (021) 857-2330
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Metro Health
Services for a period of 3 months from the date of advert. Candidates will be
subjected to a practical/written/oral and competency assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/332 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY: THEATRE, TRAUMA
AND MATERNITY)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R693 096 per annum, (Plus non pensionable rural allowance of 8% of your
annual basic salary)
CENTRE : Riversdale Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree) in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. A post-basic qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited
with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating Theatre or
Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science or Critical Care Nursing:
General or Trauma and Emergency. Registration with the professional council:
Registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A
minimum of 9 years of appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least
5 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable
experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as mentioned
above. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence
215
and willingness to travel. Willingness to perform after-hour and weekend
standby duties for the hospital. Willingness to relief the Head of Nursing
Services and other Operational Managers in the facility. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Appropriate knowledge of legislation, regulations and
Departmental Policies. The ability to promote quality patient care through the
setting, implementation and monitoring of standards. Good communication
skills (verbal and written). Effective interpretation, leadership, execution of
discipline, decision-making and conflict resolution skills. Computer literacy (MS
Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook).
DUTIES : Responsible for the coordination and delivery of quality nursing care within the
Operating Theatre and Central Sterilization Unit, Maternity and Obstetric Unit
& Emergency Trauma Unit. Participate in formulating, monitoring and
implementation of policies, guidelines, standards, procedures, and regulations
within the relevant department. Manage human resources, including staff
performance, people development and disciplinary processes. Manage
material and financial resources. Provide effective support and management
of functional business unit management principles. Effective management of
information to enhance service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Mr NL Mphato Tel No: 044) 604-6104
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/ oral assessment. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/333 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY UNIT: PAEDIATRICS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital, Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least one year
accredited with the SANC in Child Nursing Science. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the period of the above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific specialty after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic qualification a mentioned above. Inherent requirements
of the job: Willingness to work overtime, after hours hospital cover, weekends,
and Public Holidays as required. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Computer
literate (i.e. MS Word, Outlook, Excel, and PowerPoint). Demonstrate an in-
depth understanding of nursing legislation and related and ethical nursing
practices and how these impacts on service delivery. Effective interpersonal,
leadership, organizational, decision making and conflict resolution skills.
Demonstrate a good understanding of People Management (Human
Resources) and financial policies and practices. Knowledge of FBU functions
and management (ability to work collaboratively within FBU’s). Good
leadership and organizational skills and the ability to function under pressure.
Ability to function independently as well as part of a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Ensure that clinical nursing practice rendered by the nursing team and promote
quality of nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and
standards. Effectively managed and co -ordinated nursing care within a
Paediatric setting with set standards and within a legal /Professional
framework. Effectively manage and co-ordinate the provision of clinical nursing
care for the area. Manage and facilitate both human and financial
resources/aspects. Effectively utilized and supervised resources. Support
effective practice development, education, and research activities/resources.
Effectively delivered support service and management of human, material and
financial resources to the Nursing Division. Maintain maintained professional
growth /ethical standards constructive working relationships with nursing
216
personnel and other stakeholders (multi-disciplinary teamwork). Function as a
health care professional according to the applicable norms and standards.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. E Brock Tel No: (021) 360-4370
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The
pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of three months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/334 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Touwsranten CC, George Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Post-basic qualification with duration of at least 1-year Diploma in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care (R48),
accredited with SANC. Registration with the professional council: Registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A minimum
of 9 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in Curative Skills in Primary Health
Care (R48). Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence and willingness to travel. Willingness to rotate between PHC clinics
within the Sub-district. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Exposure to
managerial functions in Primary Health Care Facilities. Good communicate
skills (verbal and written). Computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel and
PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Effective management of Support Services which includes, Information
Management with regards to data collection, verification, report writing and
submission of data, Human Resources (supervision of staff, development and
performance management), Finance and Supply Chain Management to ensure
effective budgeting and control. Control over infrastructure, maintenance, and
security. Liaise with relevant stakeholders including Facility Committees. Co-
ordinate and evaluate Health programmes in respected area. Co-ordinate and
evaluate Community Based Health Services in respected areas. Overall
management of the clinic.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MJF Marthinus Tel No: (044) 814 - 1100
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/ oral assessment. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/335 : CHIEF RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 (DIAGNOSTIC)
SALARY : R575 250 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Diagnostic Radiographer. Registration with the professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer. Experience: A
minimum of 3 years appropriate experience in Radiography (Diagnostic) after
registration with the HPCSA. Inherent requirements of the job: Render 40 -
hours per week which includes after hour services as determined by the
department. 24-hour call after hours and be responsible for covering the shifts
217
as determined by the radiography management. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Thorough knowledge of radiation protection, radiographic
techniques, quality assurance and equipment safety. Ability to supervise and
organise a unit. Excellent communication skills (written and verbal). Computer
literacy (MS Windows, Word, Excel, and PowerPoint). Good interpersonal and
supervisory skills and knowledge of the Staff Performance Management
System (PERMIS). Knowledge of Patient Archiving and Communication,
Radiology Information and Health Information Systems. Ability to manage and
collate departmental statistics and supervise the theatre screening of the
department. Must be able to work in a multidisciplinary team. Must have
managerial experience and skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for the smooth running of the theatre screening of the department,
office and after hours, and the delivery of a professional service to all patients.
Produce, control, and participate in diagnostic images of high quality.
Responsible for staff and student training in your area. Participate in the
management of the Radiography cost centre. Manage radiography and
support personnel, including performance appraisals. Ensure quality
assurance, care of equipment and suitable radiation protection. Engage with
vendors with regard to the maintenance of equipment. Participate in middle
management and delegated management tasks, including statistic collation
and attending meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Dreyer Tel No: (021) 938-5918
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be expected to undergo a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/336 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR GRADE 1 (COMPREHENSIVE
HEALTH)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R549 192 per annum, (Plus non pensionable rural allowance of 12% of your
annual basic salary)
CENTRE : Central Karoo District Office, (Stationed in Beaufort West)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification
(i.e.diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional
Nurse. (This dispensation is only applicable for posts of Clinical Programme
Coordinator where it is an inherent requirement of the post, incumbent to
maintain registration with the SANC). Registration with the professional
council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Experience: A minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and
willingness to travel in the district as well as in the province. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good psychosocial, health assessment, interpersonal,
planning, organisational and training skills. Good interpersonal relations,
leadership and communication skills (verbal and written). Appropriate
knowledge of the Maternal-Child-Women’s-Health, HIV/AIDS/STI/TB, and
Chronic Conditions. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint).
Ability to work independently and in a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Ensure implementation, coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the District
Child health services and strategies. Support the implementation of the
HIV/AIDS/STI/TB services, establish linkages with integrated management of
chronic conditions, Maternal Women, Youth and Men’s Health and the 1st 1000
day’s strategies within the Laingsburg and Prince Albert sub-districts and the
Beaufort West Sub District. Support the internal and external interface
strengthening with the focus on the COPC Model. Monitor and evaluate
programme goals and targets including the collection, validation and
interpretation of statistical data. Support the Laingsburg and Prince Albert sub
districts and the Beaufort West Sub District to achieve and maintain Ideal
Health status (PHC facilities and District Hospitals). Support the Laingsburg
and Prince Albert sub districts and the Beaufort West Sub District to with all
other quality related services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Nel Tel No: (023) 414 - 3590
218
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written assessment. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Central Karoo District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/337 : CHIEF DIAGNOSTIC RADIOGRAPHER: GRADE 1 (MRI)
SALARY : Grade 1: R575 250 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in
Diagnostic Radiography. Registration with the Professional Council:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in
Diagnostic Radiography. Experience: A minimum of 3 years’ relevant
experience in Diagnostic Radiography after registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA). Inherent requirements of the
job: Must be able to work with paediatric patients and be prepared to work with
patients with acute medical conditions. Willingness to rotate through
Trauma/MRI. Participate in the 24-hour service of the department.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): The candidate must have thorough
knowledge of radiation protection, quality assurance and equipment safety.
Full competency in MRI working independently. Full competency in advanced
CT scan working independently. Competency in Cath Lab would be
advantageous. Knowledge of paediatric protocols. Computer literacy (MS
Windows, Word, Excel, and PowerPoint). Good interpersonal and supervisory
skills and knowledge of the Staff Performance Management System. Good
organisational, decision-making and conflict resolution skills; understanding of
quality assurance and strong commitment to high service standards.
DUTIES : Manage the radiographic service in the MRI Unit Perform MRI independently.
Perform advanced CT imaging as required by the department. Manage and
perform general radiography, fluoroscopy, mobile radiography, theatre and
Lodox. Training- Be responsible for staff and student teaching and training.
People Management - Manage radiography and support personnel, this
includes doing their performance appraisals. Participate in the management of
the Radiography cost centre. Participate in middle management and delegated
management tasks. Care of Equipment. Ensure quality assurance in the
department (all modalities) and the use of suitable radiation protection. Engage
with vendors with regards to the maintenance of equipment of all modalities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Pietersen Tel No: (021) 658 5104
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/338 : CHIEF DIAGNOSTIC RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 (TRAUMA)
SALARY : R575 250 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in
Diagnostic Radiography. Registration with the Professional Council:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in
Diagnostic Radiography. Experience: A minimum of 3 years’ relevant
experience in Diagnostic Radiography after registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA). Inherent requirements of the
job: Must be able to work with paediatric patients and be prepared to work with
patients with acute medical conditions. Willingness to rotate through
Trauma/MRI. Participate in the 24-hour service of the department.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): The candidate must have thorough
knowledge of radiation protection, quality assurance and equipment safety.
Full competency in advanced CT scan working independently. Full competency
in MRI working independently. Competency in Cath Lab would be
219
advantageous. Knowledge of paediatric protocols. Computer literacy (MS
Windows, Word, Excel, and PowerPoint). Good interpersonal and supervisory
skills and knowledge of the Staff Performance Management System. Good
organisational, decision-making and conflict resolution skills; understanding of
quality assurance and strong commitment to high service standards.
DUTIES : Manage the radiographic service in the Trauma Unit. Manage and perform
general radiography, fluoroscopy, mobile radiography, theatre and Lodox.
Perform advanced CT imaging as required by the department. Perform MRI
independently. Training- Be responsible for staff and student teaching and
training. People Management. Manage radiography and support personnel,
this includes doing their performance appraisals. Care of Equipment. Ensure
quality assurance in the department (all modalities) and the use of suitable
radiation protection. Engage with vendors with regards to the maintenance of
equipment of all modalities. Provide statistics and report on daily activities and
equipment status.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Pietersen Tel No: (021) 658-5104
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/339 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN GRADE A
(ELECTRICAL/MECHANICAL)
Directorate: Engineering and Technical Services, Professional Engineering
Services
SALARY : Grade A: R551 493 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual’s personal needs).
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (Location on the grounds of Karl Bremer Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate National Diploma in
Engineering (Electrical/Mechanical) or equivalent relevant qualification.
Registration with a professional council: Registration with ECSA as a
professional Engineering Technician. Experience: At least 6 years
appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the relevant qualification
e.g. National Diploma in Engineering. Appropriate experience in design,
specification and maintenance of hospital infrastructure with a strong emphasis
on plant, reticulation and engineering systems. Appropriate experience in the
compilation of specifications and procurement documentation. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willing to work overtime, stay away and travel
throughout the Western Cape Province, often at short notice. Willing to assist
in other institutions and directorates. Physically fit and able to inspect buildings
and related engineering infrastructure and machinery. Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge in the
compilation of specifications and tender documentation. Contracts and quality
management skills. Knowledge of risk analysis and risk mitigation strategies
and prioritisation. Conversant with OHSA and regulations pertaining to
Electrical and Electrical installations. Conversant with NEC contracts
especially the Short-, Term service- and Framework agreement forms of
contracts. Computer literate (MS Word. Auto CAD and Excel). Knowledge and
experience in computer aided design of engineering infrastructure in the health
care environment. Sound interpersonal and good verbal and written
communication skills.
DUTIES : Compile specifications and tender documentation within time limits. Manage
projects from inception to close-out. Liaise with clients with regard to
information and work progress. Ensure continuity of service schedules,
prioritizing work, and consideration of operational requirements. Ensure
Engineering infrastructure, plant and equipment comply with Occupational
Health and Safety Act. Built environment related regulations and prescripts in
the Health Care environment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Reichert Tel No: (021) 830-3768
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A
practical/competency test may form part of the shortlisting and/or interview
process, a full job description is available upon request.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
220
POST 45/340 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING GRADE 1 (GENERAL UNIT) (MIXED
WARD)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
degree/diploma in nursing and midwifery) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse and Midwife / Accoucheur. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife / Accoucheur.
Inherent requirements of the job: Flexibility to perform official after-hour and
weekend standby duties for the hospital. Willingness to work night shifts, act
on behalf of supervisor. Experience: A minimum of 7 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Managerial & leadership skills and values: integrity,
innovative visionary, catalyst for change, self-awareness & confidence,
delegation, accountability, problem solving & decision making, conflict
resolution, interpersonal & communication skills. Clinical Governance, staff
empowerment and development. Human Resource and Financial
Management – including computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and
Outlook). Extensive knowledge in general nursing, infection prevention and
control and quality assurance. Knowledge of relevant legislation pertaining to
labour relationships, nursing legislation, related legal and ethical nursing
practices, relevant public sector policies and protocols.
DUTIES : Supervise and lead the provision of effective and efficient patient care through
adequate nursing care within the functional business unit (FBU). Coordinate
and monitor the implementation of nursing care plans and evaluation thereof.
Provide relevant health information to health care users to assist in achieving
optimal health care and rehabilitation of patients. Maintain constructive working
relationships with nursing and stakeholders (i.e. inter-professional, inter-
sectoral and multi-disciplinary teamwork). Participate in the analysis,
formulation and implementation of nursing guidelines, practices, standards and
procedures. Manage and monitor proper utilisation of human, financial and
physical resources, including information management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Bruiners Tel No: (023) 348-1104
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test and/or competency assessment.
The pool of applicants will be considered for vacancies within Worcester
Regional Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/341 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING GRADE 1 (GENERAL UNIT: MALE
WARD)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R549 192 per annum, (Plus 8% rural allowance of your annual basic
salary)
CENTRE : Robertson Hospital (Male Ward), Langeberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A minimum of 7 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirements
of the job: Work after-hours, shifts, weekends and public holidays when
required. Standby for Hospital. Valid (code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness
to assist in other wards when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge and insight of relevant legislation and policy related to nursing s
within the public sector and basic computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and
Outlook). Ability to promote quality patient care through the setting,
221
implementation and monitoring of standards. Effective communication,
interpretation, leadership, decision-making and conflict resolution and
organizational skills. Knowledge of health applications i.e. CLINICOM,
SINJANI and HECTIS.
DUTIES : Effective management of nursing care, which includes effective utilization of
human, financial and physical resources in the male ward. Ensure quality
nursing care throughout the hospital through participation in the analysis,
formulation and implementation of nursing guidelines, practices standards and
procedures. Provision of effective support and standby duty for Nursing
Management. Implement and oversee effective processes and practices
regarding all statistical information needed to render a quality health service.
Supervise, plan and implement the provision of effective and efficient infection
control measures. Maintain and participate in inter-professional and multi-
disciplinary teamwork.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SM Kortje Tel No: (023) 626-8548
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be required to do a practical test and will be subjected to a
Competency Assessment. The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within (Langeberg Sub District), for a period of three months from
the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/342 : CHIEF ARTISAN GRADE A (TECHNICAL SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade A: R480 261 per annum
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate trade test certificate in
Electrical/Millwright/Carpentry/Plumbing. Experience: Appropriate ten (10)
years post qualification experience as an Artisan/Artisan Foreman in the
building environment. Appropriate supervisory/managerial experience.
Appropriate experience in Project Management and Building Maintenance
Management. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s
licence. Willingness to perform standby duties after hours and over
weekends/Public holidays and overtime when the need arises. Willingness to
perform the duties of an Artisan/Artisan Foreman as and when required. Must
be physically fit to perform duties as required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Strong communication skills (written and verbal) with the
ability to communicate effectively to both internal and external stakeholders.
Strong organisational and problem-solving skills to support effective project
management and the timely delivery of targets and outputs. Knowledge of the
relevant SCM and Finance legislative prescripts, policies and procedures.
Strong Contract- and project management as well as compilation of
procurement documentation skills. Computer proficiency in MS Office
package.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient management of the Workshop, including People
Management, Equipment- and Supplies management and the management of
the Workshop stores. Input and liaising with Chain Management/Finance
Management on procurement matters and other resources. Strategic planning
and management of hospital maintenance needs and infrastructure projects.
Implement strategies to ensure continuous adherence to OHSA and other
legislative frameworks in order to achieve compliance with IHS, IPC and OHS
norms and standards and render sound quality and risk management
practices. Provide input, assistance and compile technical specifications, draft
business plans, draft reports and submissions, assist and complete adverse
incident reports, submit monthly and adhoc statistics and other relevant
administrative tasks as required. Ensure adherence to all legislation relating to
construction, electrical, plumbing, welding, plantrooms and carpentry works to
ensure compliance and smooth operations at Stikland Hospital.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Filby Tel No: (021) 940-4555
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of
222
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/343 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION
(PERSONNEL PRACTICES)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Office of the CD, Emergency Medical Services, People Management
(Premises of Karl Bremmer Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National
Diploma\Degree or equivalent NQF6 qualification in the Human Resource
related field. Experience: Appropriate experience in Human Resource
Management. Appropriate experience in a supervisory or a managerial position
in Human Resource Management. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
drivers’ licence. Willingness to travel throughout the province, stay overnight
when required and work overtime. Thorough knowledge of the Departmental
policies, prescripts and Acts that govern the functions. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Excellent written and verbal proficiency. Ability to function
as a team player, with or without supervision. Ability to function under stressful
environment and cope with a heavy workload. Leadership capabilities,
managerial and organisational skills. Ability to manage conflict and function
under pressure. Ability to analyse, interpret and apply legislation, policies and
prescripts. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and
Internet).
DUTIES : Responsible for the effective management of the APL (including the APL
budget), HR Planning and Job Evaluation processes, Establishment Control,
Recruitment, Selection, Transfer and appointment of staff within the
Compensation management prescripts. Responsible for the effective
management of the Staff Performance Management System and Job
Descriptions in EMS. Conduct training to staff and line mangers and provide
support and guidance within the scope of the above profile. Responsible for
the investigation of grievances/disputes linked to recruitment and selection and
performance management processes. Serve as nodal point for maintaining
and reporting on integrated HR Information (within the scope of profile) to
stakeholders. Effective management and development of sub ordinates and
co-ordinate an equitable workflow.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Meter Tel No: (021) 948 9374 or Liesl.Meter@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may undergo a Competency Based Administration. The pool of applicants will
be considered for other vacant Assistant Director: Human Resource
Management posts within the Chief Director Emergency & Clinical Services
Support, for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The People Management
Offices will be relocating onto the premises of Alexandra Hospital.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/344 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE) (OPD: ARV)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Post-basic nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year
accredited with the SANC in the following: Diploma in Clinical Science, Health
Assessment, Treatment and Care, accredited with SANC (R48). Registration
with the professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional
Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A Minimum of 4 years
223
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A Minimum
of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
periods referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the
specific speciality after obtaining the one-year post-basic qualification in
Clinical Science, Health Assessment, Treatment and Care (R48). Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work overtime when necessary, and to
work shifts including weekends, public holidays, and night duty. The incumbent
will also be expected to rotate within the hospital. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of procedures relating to nursing education,
training and of basic post basic nursing. Knowledge and understanding of
nursing Code of Ethics and Professional Practice of the SANC of nursing
Standard of Practice and scope of practice. Computer literate in MS Office
(Excel, Word and Power point) and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : Provide and perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of
practice and nursing standards for nursing services. Plan and implement
Health Promotion and Prevention activities. Link with community structures and
NPO’s. Collect data and submit reports on or before time. Assist with managing
human and equipment resources. Ensure an effective administrative service.
Facilitate clinical teaching, training and health education. Provision of effective
clinical services. Participate in research activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MM Luphondo Tel No: (021) 902-8010/57
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Curative Skills in Clinical Nursing Science: Health
Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited with the SANC (R48). The pool
of applicants will be considered for other vacant Clinical Nurse Practitioner
posts within the Chief Director: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months
from date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral
assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/345 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PHC)
Cape Winelands Heath District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Saron Clinic, Drakenstein Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Post-basic qualification, with duration of at least 1-year, in Curative Skills in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited
with the SANC (R48). Registration with a professional council: Current
registration with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognizable
nursing experience after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in
General nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognizable
nursing experience after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in
General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience after obtaining the 1 year post basic
qualification in the relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job:
Prepared to work at different facilities within the Sub District inclusive a Mobile
and when needed within the community (COPC concept). A valid driver’s
license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Demonstrate in-depth knowledge of
Nursing and public service legislation. Ability to effectively communicate
(written and verbal). Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel).
DUTIES : Assist with the management of the burden of disease in accordance with the
guidelines and protocols of the western cape. Provide and maintain quality of
224
care to all patients and health services. Maintain accurate clinical records,
statistics registers, and referral records. Effective utilization of
Resources/Stock within the limited budget constraints. Participation in
Community events and initiating awareness with regards to health-related
issues. Maintain and participate in inter-professional and multi-disciplinary
teamwork but able to work independently. Supervise and mentor lower
categories of staff. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Bosch Tel No: (021) 862-4520
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of interview. The concession is only applicable
to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post basic
qualification: Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science, Health Assessment,
Treatment Care. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within (Drakenstein Sub District), for a period of three months from the date of
the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/346 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Delft Community Health Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. A post-basic qualification with a duration of at least 1-year Diploma in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care, accredited
with SANC (R48). Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A
Minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
2: A Minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least
10 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable
experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as mentioned
above. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid driver’s licence and willingness
to travel. Willingness to work after hours. Competencies (knowledge/ skills):
NIMART training or experience. Knowledge and understanding of nursing
Code of Ethics and Professional Practice of the SANC of nursing Standard of
Practice and scope of practice. Computer literate in MS Office (Excel, Word
and Power point) and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : Treatment of patients on Primary Health Care level with regards to Curative
Services, Communicable Diseases, Mental Health and Chronic Diseases
within the scope of practice. Render effective child and school health services,
including the integration of nutritional services, within the scope of practice.
Render effective Women’s Health including Antenatal services within the scope
of practice. Assist with management and execution of all relevant HAST
Programmes (TB, STI and HIV/AIDS). Work as part of the multi-disciplinary
team to ensure quality, promotive, preventive and curative Primary Health Care
delivery. To be an advocate for patients to ensure the provision of quality
Health Care necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Levy Tel No: (021) 954-2237
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
225
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification: Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science, Health Assessment,
Treatment Care. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral
assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/347 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING: OPD;
ORTHOPAEDICS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchell’s Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (Degree/Diploma
in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A Post basic nursing
qualification with a duration of at least 1 year accredited with the SANC in
Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Orthopaedic Nursing. Registration with
a professional council: Registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional nurse with SANC in
General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/ recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of this period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience in specific specialty after obtaining the
one-year post- basic qualification in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Orthopaedic Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job: To work shifts including
weekends, public holidays and night duty. To rotate to other units within the
Orthopaedics department. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Sound
knowledge and understanding of nursing and health service-related acts,
legislation, policies and practices. Problem solving, report writing, liaison and
facilitation skills. Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook and use of
Internet Ability to lift and turn patients, stand for long hours and lift heavy
equipment.
DUTIES : Provide an optimal, holistic, specialized Nursing Care within set standards and
within a professional, legal framework as a Professional Specialist Nurse in
Orthopaedic Nursing. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing
and other stakeholders. Utilise human, material and physical resources
efficiently and effectively. Participate in research and training and development
of community, staff and students to achieve optimal health care and
rehabilitation of orthopaedic patients. Assist with administrative duties, e.g.
data collation and reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Geswindt Tel No: (021) 377-4410
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Orthopaedic
Nursing. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within the
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of three months from the
date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
226
POST 45/348 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2: SPECIALTY (THEATRE AND
DAY WARD) (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and midwife.
A post-basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year, accredited
with SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating theatre
technique, which allows registration with SANC. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and
midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in Operating Theatre after obtaining the
1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant specialty. Inherent requirements
of the job: Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty, weekends, and public
holidays to meet the operational requirements. Must be prepared to assist in
all departments according to operational requirements. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication, interpersonal relationships,
exceptional leadership and conflict resolution skills. Ability to function/make
decisions independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Practical
knowledge and experience in the operating theatre. Basic computer skills in
MS Word, Excel, Outlook. Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of the
Department of Health Western Cape.
DUTIES : Provide safe and comprehensive care delivered to patients in theatre.
Provision of optimal, holistic specialised care with set standards within
professional/legal framework. Ensure adherence to the principles of IPC
practices in the theatre. Ensure accurate record keeping for statistical and legal
purposes. Support and supervise students and subordinates in theatre.
Effective utilization of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Basardien Tel No: (021) 402-6485
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates will be subjected to a written and oral assessment. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)” The pool of applicants will be
considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/349 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: TRAUMA AND
EMERGENCY) (X2 POSTS)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
(Plus non pensionable rural allowance of 8% of your annual basic salary).
CENTRE : Riversdale Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i. e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least one year
227
accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical
Care Nursing: General or Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care
Nursing: Trauma and Emergency. Registration with the professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience:
Grade 1: A Minimum of 4 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in General
Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years’ appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific speciality after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic nursing qualification in the relevant speciality as
mentioned above. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Willingness to work shifts, Sundays, public holidays, night shift
and overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practices and how this impact on service delivery. Effective interpersonal,
leadership, organisational, decision making and conflict resolution skills. Be
knowledgeable about South African Triage Scale (SATS) and Emergency
Nursing. Good communication skills. Computer literacy (i.e. MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint and Outlook).
DUTIES : Provide holistic specialized nursing care to patients in a cost-effective manner.
Effective implementation of infection control policies and health and safety
legislation. Assist with managing human and material resources. Maintain a
constructive working relationship with nursing and other stakeholders.
Participate in training, development and research within the nursing
department. Provision of Support to Nursing Services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr NL Mphato Tel No: (028) 713-8656
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the required qualifications will be
appointed into the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the
necessary qualifications within a predetermined period of time. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. -This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care
Nursing: General or Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care
Nursing: Trauma and Emergency. The pool of applications will be considered
for vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three months from
the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/350 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING:
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY/IPC/QUALITY ASSURANCE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : False Bay Hospital, Southern/Western Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma /
degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse. A post-basic
nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year accredited with the SANC
in Occupational Health Nursing Science. Registration with the Professional
Council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience:
Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing
after registration as a Professional nurse with the SANC in General nursing.
Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional with the SANC in General nursing.
At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific speciality after obtaining
228
the 1 year post basic nursing qualification with the SANC as mentioned above.
Inherent requirements of the job: Partake in weekend and afterhours cover for
the facility. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Good verbal and communication
skills. Practical knowledge of Occupational Health and Risk Management.
Practical knowledge of research methodology and Quality Management. Ability
to work independently and as part of the multi-disciplinary team. Computer
literacy (Ms Word, Excel, PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Provide Occupational Health Clinical Services at institutional level (promoting
Health, Safety and Wellness in the workplace). Provide advisory services on
all Occupational Health and Safety matters. Render an efficient administrative
system and control of the Occupational Health Service. Conduct Risk
assessment audits. Participate in training programmes in conjunction with
People Management and Training Departments as required. Management &
Promotion of Quality Assurance and Infection Prevention and Control (liaise
with IPC related matters).
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Tyutu Tel No: (021) 832-5206
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).The pool of applicants will be
considered for other vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of three months from date of advert, provided that the
job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same
as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be subjected to a
written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/351 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Devon Valley Mobile
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Post-basic qualification, with duration of at least 1-year, in Curative Skills in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited
with the SANC (R48). Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Inherent requirements of the job: Prepared to work at different facilities within
the Sub District inclusive a Mobile and when needed within the community
(COPC concept). Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Experience: Grade 1: A
minimum of 4 years’ appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least
10 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable
experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant
specialty. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Demonstrate in-depth knowledge
of Nursing and public service legislation. Computer literacy (MS Word and
Excel). Ability to promote quality patient care through the implementation of
protocols, guidelines and standards. BANC & PACK training or experience.
DUTIES : Assist with the management of the burden of disease in accordance with the
guidelines and protocols of the western cape. Provide and maintain quality of
care of all patients and health services. Maintain accurate clinical records,
statistics registers, and referral records. Effective utilization of
Resources/Stock within the limited budget constraints. Participation in
Community events and initiating awareness with regards to health-related
229
issues. Maintain and participate in inter-professional and multi-disciplinary
teamwork but able to work independently. Supervise and mentor lower
categories of staff. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MM Muller Tel No: (021) 808-6109
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be required to do a practical test. “Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification: Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science, Health Assessment,
Treatment Care. “The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Stellenbosch Sub-district, for a period of three months from the date of
the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/352 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MEC SUPPORT (LICENSING)
Directorate: Assurance
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma
(NQF Level 6) in Administration or Finance or Business or Health field (or
equivalent). Experience: Appropriate administrative, data management and
legal administration/ interpretation experience within a health service and/or
business environment. Appropriate supervisory level (salary level 7 or 8).
Appropriate experience within a regulatory environment. Inherent requirement
of the job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver's licence and willingness to travel
throughout the Western Cape. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Extensive
knowledge of Health Acts & Regulations (National & Provincial), specifically
those related to licensing of health services. Extensive knowledge of Policies
and Guidelines (National & Provincial) related to licensing of health services.
Excellent interpersonal, communication and organisation skills. Excellent
writing and grammatical skills, such as editing and formulating of documents.
Ability to function independently and with confidence. Good team building
skills. Client and task/results orientated. Ability to efficiently operate computer
programmes such as Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint and E-mail.
DUTIES : Effectively and assertively implement applicable health and related legislation,
and decision-making procedure: Participating, on behalf of the Ministry, in all
processes pertaining to legislative changes pertaining to the licensing function.
Representing the Ministry in all consultative processes surrounding legal
matters brought against the MEC in relation to the licensing function Implement
guidance of P.N. 187, P.N. 180 and the Guidelines for Licensing Community
Mental Health Facilities. Rendering professional administrative support to the
MEC in relation to licensing: Receiving, sorting, filing and redirecting matters
received by the MEC in relation to licensing. Monitoring the document progress
for applications received by the MEC. Engage with the administrative staff in
the office of the MEC on short and long term professional administrative
support services with regards to licensing to: Collaborating on all appropriate
functions with the administrative staff in the office of the MEC. Rendering an
advisory service to the MEC in relation to licensing matters: Studying licensing
documentation received by the MEC. Consulting additional advisors where
necessary. Formulating advice for the MEC on all licensing matters. Presenting
to the MEC on all licensing matters. Drafting outcome letters for the MEC in
relation to applications received. Ensuring that legislative timeframes are met
in relation to licensing. Liaison, on behalf of the MEC, between the office of the
MEC and Department and/or applicants in the process of considering the
applications: Engaging Departmental staff to clarify queries and obtain
background information on all licensing matters dealt with in the MEC’s office.
Liaison with applicants to obtain additional information in relation to their
applications. Liaison with additional advisors in the process of formulating
230
advice in relation to the MEC’s function of considering appeals and
exemptions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Mavela Tel No: (021) 483-3316 / 073 875 8343
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/353 : CLINICAL PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National
Diploma/Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in clinical
product/equipment evaluation. Knowledge of medical equipment and supplies
and their application within a healthcare environment. Appropriate experience
in government procurement. Appropriate experience in strategic procurement.
Sound clinical knowledge on medical products. Inherent requirements of the
job: The candidate must be willing to work overtime. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Proven report writing skills. Broad knowledge on
negotiating with suppliers. Health sector products (Medical & Surgical
equipment and consumables). Bid Management and Procurement prescripts.
Preferential Procurement and/or Black Economic Empowerment Management
capabilities and understanding. Product evaluation processes. Highly
developed problem-solving abilities. Sound interpersonal/communication
skills. Computer literacy (Word, Excel, PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Co-ordinate the evaluation of medical & surgical equipment and consumables
for purchase. Liaise with users and suppliers of medical & surgical equipment
and consumables. Provide training and guidance on the use of the Essential
Supplies List. Assist in the prioritisation of medical / surgical consumables and
equipment needs. Represent SCM on various institutional committees. Ensure
proper application of contract management. Advisor to the institutional
Quotation Committee. Represent RCWMCH on various transversal and
provincial bids. Ensure compliance to SCM prescripts. Assist in Procurement
Planning and Demand Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Jacobs Tel No: (021) 658-5786, Ebrahim.Jacobs@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. This post does
not form part of any Occupation Specific Dispensation. Shortlisted candidates
may be required to complete a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/354 : RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 TO 3 (DIAGNOSTIC)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Radiographer in Diagnostic Radiography. Registration with the Professional
Council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Diagnostic
Radiographer in respect of RSA-qualified employees. 1-year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Diagnostic Radiographer in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Diagnostic
Radiographer in respect of RSA-qualified employees. A Minimum of 11 years
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Diagnostic
Radiographer in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3:
A minimum of 20 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA
as Diagnostic Radiographer in respect of RSA-qualified employees. A
minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Diagnostic Radiographer in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it
231
is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: Render 40 - hours per week which includes
after hour services on weekends and night duty rotations as determined by the
department. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Adhere to all departmental
requirements and protocols. Knowledge of radiation protection, quality
assurance and equipment safety. Provide paediatric radiography service
independently and as part of a team. Knowledge of Digital Radiography
imaging modalities and medical imaging workflow. Good computer skills (MS
Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Good interpersonal skills and perform effectively
as part of a multidisciplinary team. Comply with National Core Standards
requirements. Good time management. Knowledge of Picture Archiving and
Communication Systems and Radiology Information Systems.
DUTIES : Provide a radiographic service for paediatric patients and produce diagnostic
images of high quality. Provide optimal patient care. Imaging of paediatric
patients in specialized areas. Perform CT Scan imaging, Digital Radiography,
Fluoroscopy, Theatre, DR Mobiles, Panorex Imaging and Lodox. Optimal use
and care of equipment and daily quality checks. Participate in personal,
departmental and hospital in-service and training programs. Provide relief duty
in absence of the colleagues and provide support to supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Pietersen Tel No: (021) 658-5104
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The job
contents as indicated in the advertisement might be adjusted in terms of the
service needs. Shortlisted candidates may be subject to a practical test.
“Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This
concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the first
time for registration as Diagnostic Radiographer with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/355 : MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Forensic Pathology Services, Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, Observatory
Forensic Pathology Institute
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Technologist in Histopathology. Registration with a professional
council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Technologist in
Histopathology. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA
as a Medical Technologist (Histopathology) in respect of South African
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in the
relevant profession as a Medical Technologist (Histopathology) in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to work Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Technologist
(Histopathology) in respect of South African employees. 11-years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession as a
Medical Technologist (Histopathology) in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to work Community Service, as required
in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Technologist (Histopathology)
respect of South African employees. 21-years relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession as a Medical
Technologist (Histopathology) in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to work Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s license.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Above average ability to communicate
clearly and discreetly in person and in writing. Above average Computer and
232
software literacy in at least MS Excel and Word. Ability to achieve and maintain
good interpersonal and working relations with staff and clients, with knowledge
of the core values of the Department. Ability to perform duties outside normal
working hours and away from base of employment. Good administrative skills
and Laboratory Staff Management, with above average technical skills and
problem-solving ability under pressure. Knowledge of the applicable
Laboratory Information System. Knowledge of the medico-legal principles,
including maintenance of chain of custody, that form the cornerstone of all
medical laboratories but is of particular importance in a Forensic laboratory set-
up. Proficiency in Good Laboratory Practice. Knowledge and Application of
policies - sections of the Occupational Health and Safety Act, the National
Health Act and the Inquests Act, as well as the processes and procedures
associated with laboratory accreditation. Competent in numerical assessment,
planning, forecasting, and checking (aware of finance principles, budget,
procurement, stores, claims, etc.). Ability to deliver expert testimony in court
proceedings. Exposure to postmortems, autopsy work and dissection.
Planning skills. Keep abreast of developments within appropriate
histopathology discipline(s). Knowledge of the functioning of a Forensic
Pathology Department in South Africa. Ability to teach co-workers, students
and medical staff. Working knowledge of the legislation, policies and code of
conduct pertaining to Forensic Pathology practice.
DUTIES : Effective Clinical Service delivery and transformation. Effective and efficient
Clinical Governance and Quality Assurance. Effective Corporate Governance.
Effective and efficient administrative and academic responsibilities.
ENQUIRIES : Dr IJ Molefe, email: (Itumeleng.Molefe@uct.ac.za)
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Candidates may have to undergo
profiling assessments prior to appointment. “The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Forensic Pathology Service, Observatory
Forensic Pathology Institute, Division: Forensic Medicine and Toxicology,
University of Cape Town, for a period of three months from the date of the
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/356 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (PHC SUPPORT AND
OUTREACH)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Bergriver Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate qualification that allows for
the registration with the Health Professional Council of South African (HPCSA)
as an Occupational Therapist. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the Health Professional Council of South African (HPCSA) as
an Occupational Therapist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with
the HPCSA as Occupational Therapist in respect of RSA qualified employees.
1-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Occupational
Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required
to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Occupational Therapist in respect of SA qualified employees. A Minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Occupational
Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required
to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
233
Occupational Therapist in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 21
years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Occupational
Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required
to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to
travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Office: Word,
Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Ability to work accurately under pressure and
maintain a high standard of professionalism. Ability to work independently and
in a multi-disciplinary team with excellent interpersonal and communication
skills. Innovative and analytical thinking and the ability to initiate, coordinate,
manage and sustain programs. Knowledge of Community Oriented Primary
care.
DUTIES : Delivery of optimal outcomes-based intervention to patients in the community
according to occupational therapy principles and protocols. Mobility and
assistive device services rendered in the community. Facilitation of training for
health personnel, clients, their families, volunteers, and inter-departmental
personnel. Perform administrative tasks relating to department and skills
developmental and training for Occupational Therapist. General support to
supervisor and colleagues within the subdistrict.
ENQUIRIES : Ms ME Ramokgadi Tel No: (022) 913-3062
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Bergriver Sub-district, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/357 : SPEECH THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Speech Therapist or Speech Therapist and Audiologist. Registration with the
professional council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Speech Therapist or
Speech Therapist and Audiologist. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with the HPCSA as Speech Therapist or Speech Therapist and
Audiologist in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as Speech Therapist or Speech Therapist
and Audiologist of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to
perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum
of 10 years' relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Speech
Therapist or Speech Therapist and Audiologist in respect of SA qualified
employees. A Minimum of 11 years' relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA as Speech Therapist or Speech Therapist and Audiologist in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
community service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years' relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Speech
Therapist or Speech Therapist and Audiologist in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 21 years' relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA as Speech Therapist or Speech Therapist and Audiologist in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
community service, as required in South Africa. Minimum educational
qualification: An appropriate qualification that allows for registration with the
234
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Speech Therapist or
Speech Therapist and Audiologist. Inherent requirements of the job: Computer
Literacy (MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to provide Speech Therapy services independently and as part of a
team. Excellent report, clinical note and referral writing skills and competent in
counselling of patients, carers and families. Sound verbal and written
communication skills. Comply with the National Core Standards requirements.
Inherent requirements of the job: Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel and
PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Assess and manage Speech, Language, and Swallowing fallouts in the adult
and Paediatric Populations. Coordinate and manage the Speech Therapy
department and services at a district level. Participate in Multidisciplinary Team
discussions and departmental, hospital in-service and training programmes
and participate in basic student training. Effective and efficient resource
management such as managing stock and ordering consumables. Complete
weekly stats and service reports as required. Maintain own professional
development, facilitate in-service training as identified. Manage review of
personal performance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Sonday Tel No: (021) 360-4299
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals
who must apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/358 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Klipfontein/Mitchell’s Plain Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate qualification that allows for
the required registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as an Occupational Therapist. Registration with the professional
council: Registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as an
Occupational Therapist in respect of RSA qualified employees. 1-year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as an
Occupational Therapist in respect of SA qualified employees. A Minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as an
Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 21 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
an Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirement of the job: A Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and
willingness to travel within the Metro. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Relevant skills in assessing, developing and implementing Occupational
Therapy intervention. Sound knowledge of relevant National and Provincial
235
legislation. Knowledge of Health Care 2030. Experience in student
training/supervision. Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook.
DUTIES : Coordinate & manage OT services for a designated area. People management
(Rehab Care Workers, students, volunteers). Liaise and collaborate with
stakeholders. Screen, assess and intervene as required and is relevant &
appropriate. Link to appropriate levels of care.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Hull Tel No: (021) 370-5019
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment. “Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or
before the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status”. The pool of applicants will be considered for vacancies
within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months
from date of advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/359 : DIETICIAN GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Macassar CDC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Dietician. Registration with the professional council: Registration with the
HPCSA as a Dietician. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
HPCSA in Dietetics in respect of RSA qualified employees. One-year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA in Dietetics in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA in Dietetics in respect of SA qualified
employees. Minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA in Dietetics in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3:
Minimum of 20 years relevant experience after registration with HPCSA in
Dietetics in respect of SA qualified employees who performed Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Minimum of 21 years relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA in Dietetics in respect of foreign qualified
employees. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to conduct
outreaches to local clinics, community day/ health centres and communities.
Valid Code B/EB driver’s license. Willingness to work overtime. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Thorough knowledge and exposure to all aspects relating
to Dietetics. Good interpersonal, communication, counselling and
organisational skills. Computer literate in Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook
and MS Teams. Facilitation, presentation and project coordination skills. Sound
knowledge of INP & nutrition policies.
DUTIES : Managing burden of disease by improving nutrition in the early life and late life
course to all patients. Provide community outreach, conduct projects and
activities by rendering a therapeutic service Capacitated workforce. Provide in-
service training and mentoring of all categories of personnel and students on
nutrition related topics to. General administration including assisting with
planning, reporting activities conducted, and monitoring of nutritional
programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Viana Tel No: (021) 857-2330
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written practical test and oral assessment.
236
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status. The pool
of applicants will be considered for other vacant Dietician posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/360 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: LABOUR RELATIONS
Directorate: Employee Relations
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (West Coast District Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma/
Degree within Human Resource Management or Labour Relations.
Experience: Appropriate experience in PERSAL. Appropriate experience in
labour relations. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Willingness to travel within the West Coast District area, Rural Health
District and Cape Town. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer Literacy
in Ms Office Skills. Ability to work under pressure, meet deadlines and maintain
confidentiality. Knowledge of Labour Relations. Presentation and Facilitation
Skills.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient rendering of Labour Relations functions including
Investigations and Representing the Employer in Disciplinary matters. Assist
with the facilitation, development, implementation and evaluation of LR
training. Interpret and apply Labour Relations policies/prescripts and
manage/monitor its effective implementation. Effective and efficient
management of harassment, misconduct, grievance and dispute cases.
Maintain Labour Relations statistics and databases. Render support to IMLC’s
within District. Render an effective administrative support service to the Labour
Relations Office.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Van Staden Tel No: (022) 814-0331
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required is required when applying for this post.
Shortlisted candidates could be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/361 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT (PEOPLE MANAGEMENT)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma
/Degree in Human Resource related field. Experience: Appropriate experience
in Human Resource Management. Appropriate experience in a supervisory
capacity. Inherent requirements of the job: A Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
function in a stressful environment and cope with a heavy workload. Ability to
analyse, interpret and apply legislation, policies and prescripts. Computer
literacy (MS Word, advanced Excel and PowerPoint). Ability to function as a
team player, with or without supervision. Leadership capabilities managerial
and organisation skills. Appropriate planning and administration skills.
DUTIES : Monitoring control measures for all allowances. Ensure Audit Compliance.
Financial Management. Appropriate utilization of overtime budget.
Management of Registry services. Management of service benefits. Ensure
efficient personnel administration for leave management. Effective
Management of incapacity, Pilir applications and WCA. Ensure pension and
audit compliance. Provide training, support and guidance to staff and line
managers within the scope of profile. Effective management and development
of subordinates.
237
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Acker Tel No: (021) 944-9202
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be expected to undergo a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/362 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Forensic Pathology Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Diploma/ Degree in Information Systems or
relevant qualification. Experience: Appropriate experience in Information
Management. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver's
license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of commonly used
concepts, practices and processes pertaining to Information Management.
Knowledge of data analytics and visualization tools. Knowledge of ICT policies
and procedures. Knowledge of business process analysis, mapping, modelling
and re-engineering. Knowledge of relevant policies, prescripts and standards
within the DoHW and CEI environment. Ability to deal with sensitive information
that relates to the investigation of death scenes and autopsy examinations.
Ability to comprehend regulations and Standard Operating Procedures and
apply them to operations. Above average Computer and Software Literacy in
Office Suite Applications (MS Word, Excel, Power Point and Power BI).
Strategic Planning and Project Management. Information Technology.
DUTIES : Effective Information Management. Effective Training and Development.
Effective and Efficient Management Support. Effective and efficient End User
Support. Effective Management of Component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MJ Vismer, email: Michael.Vismer@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates may be subjected
to a security clearance prior to appointment. The pool of applicants will be
considered for vacancies within the Forensic Pathology Service, Head Office
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/363 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE
Chief Directorate: Emergency Clinical and Services Support
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Sub-directorate: Finance and Supply Chain Management
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National diploma or
degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Financial Management.
Appropriate supervisory experience. Appropriate experience in completing and
analysing BMI’s. Appropriate experience in expenditure control. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to travel. Valid drivers’ license.
Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Organisational, managerial, leadership
skills and an aptitude for working with financial figures. Strong people
management and supervisory skills, ability to work in a team context and
motivate team members. Computer literacy Microsoft Package. Knowledge of
PFMA, Finance instructions, Provincial and National Treasury regulations, as
well as Accounting Officer System and Project Management. Interpretation
Policies, Formal Training, Economic, financial analysis, Legal Administration
and Strategic Planning.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient support to the ASD to manage the Budgetary Function
Equitable Share, Conditional Grants and Donor Funding. Effective support to
the management of the accounting function Budget and expenditure against
the applicable expenditure Equitable Share, Conditional Grants and Donor
Funds. In-Year Monitoring and Reporting for Conditional Grants. Monitoring
and Evaluation. Effective and efficient support to the ASD in the Internal
Control function within the Equitable Share, Conditional Grants & Donor
238
funding. Effective support to the ASD in the management of Human Resources
in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Beukes Tel No: (021) 830-3732
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants may be considered for other vacant Senior Administrative Officer:
Finance posts within the Chief Director Emergency & Clinical Services Support,
for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be subjected to a
written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/364 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE AND SUPPLY CHAIN
MANAGEMENT
Overberg District
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Hermanus Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Finance, Revenue, Patient
Administration and Supply Chain. Appropriate experience in budget and
expenditure control, and supply chain management. Appropriate experience in
the management of Asset and Liability Accounts. Appropriate proven
Supervisory experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB/C1)
drivers’ license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Extensive knowledge and
practical experience in Logis and Integrated Procurement Solutions (IPS) as
well as good organisational, managerial, leadership skills and an aptitude for
working with financial figures. Extensive knowledge of relevant financial
prescripts, departmental policies, delegations and procedures and Strong
people management skills, ability to work in a team context and motivate team
members. Computer literacy and thorough knowledge of computer systems
(LOGIS, BAS, IPS, CLINICOM & Account Receivable). Excellent
communication skills (verbal and written). Knowledge of the Public Financial
Management Act (PFMA), National and Provincial Treasury Regulations.
DUTIES : Responsible for overall management for all Supply Chain Management
functions and ensure the effective and efficient application of procurement
policies and processes Responsible for Inventory control, warehouse
management and Asset Management processes. Accurate and timeous
preparation of reports and assist with the compilation of the Annual and Interim
Financial statements. Clearing Asset and Liabilities accounts Supervise
Patient Administration, Medical Records, and Hospital Fees Departments.
Ensure sound Labour practices are executed and implemented.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CE Langley Tel No: (028) 313-5220
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/365 : SOCIAL WORKER: GRADE 1 TO 4 (MENTAL HEALTH)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R325 200 per annum
Grade 2: R397 119 per annum
Grade 3: R477 564 per annum
Grade 4: R585 441 per annum
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification as a Social
Worker that allows for registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professionals (SACSSP). Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP) as Social Worker. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience in social work after
registration as a Social Worker with the SACSSP. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate experience in social work after registration as a Social
Worker with the SACSSP. Grade 4: A minimum of 30 years appropriate
experience in social work after registration as a social worker with the
239
SACSSP. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid (code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to render a clinical social
work practise as a member of a multi-disciplinary team in a Specialist Acute
Mental Health Care setting. Sound knowledge and skills in psycho-social
assessment, family and individual counselling skills. Knowledge of relevant
statutory processes. Computer literacy. Good verbal and written
communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide clinical social work services with regards to the care, support,
protection and development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and
communities. Utilise specialist knowledge and skills to conduct psychosocial
assessments, counsel individuals and families. Network effectively internally
with the multi-disciplinary team as well as with relevant external role players.
Conduct appropriate referrals to relevant role players and stake holders.
Actively contribute to development of care and safety plans. Deliver
accountable services through the application of the Social Work Administrative
process. Integrated Programme Facilitation and community work, programme
management and community outreach services. Ensure continued
professional development by keeping updated with developments in the field.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Kilian Tel No: (021) 940-4468
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. “Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/366 : SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR
Directorate: People Development
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate Diploma/Degree
qualification [NQF level 6 or higher]. Experience: Appropriate experience and
proven track record in all major aspects of systems management within a
health care environment. Appropriate experience in system support to be able
to manage the eLearning Management system used in the Department.
Appropriate experience in content creation and management in a Moodle
environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s license and
willingness to travel. Willing to work irregular hours. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good planning, organisational skills and project
management methodologies. Computer literacy (Ms Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
Teams, SharePoint etc). Ability to produce accurate system reports. Good
communication and writing skills and problem-solving analysis.
DUTIES : Responsible for ensuring that various systems integrity is monitored and
access training is provided to users. Engage with various role players to ensure
that individual system requirements are administered. Collaborate with
management to identify and define the strategies, policies, and procedures at
various platforms. Monitor and evaluate system implementation of new content
to achieve online training objectives. Engage and collaborate with subject
matter experts to ensure departmental objectives are met. Manage uploaded
content to ensure NO departmental values are transgressed and monitored.
Responsible for help desk support for all People Development system related
queries. Report quarterly user activities and challenges to management.
Monitor and report course participation and completion. Maintain the Learning
Management System. Manage facilitators and content creators.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Peters Tel No: (021) 483-3785
240
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/367 : INDUSTRIAL TECHNICIAN PRODUCTION (ELECTRICAL)
Directorate: Engineering and Technical Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (Professional Services, Bellville)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: National Diploma in Engineering
(Electrical), or registration as Engineering Technician in terms of section 14(1)
or 14(2) of the Engineering Profession of South Africa Act, 1990. Experience:
Appropriate experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Willing to work
overtime, stay away and travel throughout the Western Cape Province. Valid
driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the
Occupational Health and Safety Act of 1993, the Health Act and Regulations,
Act 61 of 2003 and the Engineering Profession Act of 2000. A good knowledge
of computer programs such as MS Office and Auto Cad. Ability to draft
specifications. Good written and verbal communication.
DUTIES : Assist the Engineering component with technical activities in line with statutory
and regulatory requirements. Produce technical designs with specifications.
Assist the Engineering component to maintain a maintenance strategy through
the provision of appropriate structures, maintenance standards, specifications
and contract- and project management. Maintain the system to collect credible
data on the use of utilities by Health facilities. Assist to control, monitor and
report on all resources to ensure sound risk practices. Provide management
information into the operations of the professional services component.
Liaising with clients, stakeholders, and relevant councils.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Badenhorst Tel No: (021) 830-3757
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/368 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services, premises of Tygerberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate with Mathematics and/or
Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate with
experience/competencies that focus on the Key Performance Areas (KPA’s) of
the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in Supply Chain. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid Code B driver’s licence. Willingness to travel.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of and exposure to the Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA) National Treasury Regulations and SCM
instructions. Knowledge of LOGIS and/or SYSPRO, ESL and EPS system.
Computer literacy (MS Office): Word, Excel, Outlook.
DUTIES : Manage the warehouse section. Ensure proper demand for planning inventory.
Responsible for relevant monthly and quarterly reporting. Manage IFS and AFS
stock take process. Maintaining procurement plan and issuance databases.
Acquisition management of goods and services through EPS, transversal
contracts and other means as prescribed in the AOS and SCM delegations.
Responsible for system approval as per delegations. Manage the effective
implementation of processes to prevent late payment. Proper record keeping
relevant to warehouse section. Assist in other components within Supply Chain
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Overmeyer Tel No: (021) 830-1160
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be expected to undergo a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
241
POST 45/369 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE/ADMIN
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with appropriate experience/competencies that focuses on the
Key Performance Areas (KPA's) of the post. Experience: Appropriate
experience of clinical procedures/services in various clinical disciplines.
Appropriate ICD10 coding experience. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Proven training in Anatomy and Physiology or a Nursing/clinical background.
Knowledge of Prosthetic Devices and High-Cost Consumables. Knowledge of
a patient fees tariff structure. Good interpersonal skills and the ability to act
independently, objectively and with confidence. Computer literate Ability to
work under pressure, handle a high work volume and meet strict deadlines.
DUTIES : Clinical auditing of patient accounts in compliance with the Uniform Patient
Fees Structure and relevant financial prescripts. Ensure that all prosthesis,
high-cost consumables, and high-cost pharmaceuticals are charged timeously.
Complete prosthesis/high-cost consumable forms when necessary for billing
purposes. Provide estimations and interact with clinical personnel with regard
to clinical procedures. Handle queries including 3rd party queries. Ensure
accurate interpretation and implementation of policy, protocols and hospital
procedures in respect of H2, H3 and Private patients (externally funded
patients). Assist Case Manager with clinical updates, assign ICD10 codes,
obtain authorisation and liaise with the Medical Schemes. Query codes as
needed to obtain clarification of charted documentation to accurately assign
ICD10 codes. Actively participate in training of ICD10 coders. Ensure
compliance of coding rules and regulations. Compile and submit statistics on a
weekly/monthly basis. Work as a team to meet departmental goals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Jooste Tel No: (021) 938-4140
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/370 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience and knowledge of Human Resources (i.e.
Salary Administration, Service Conditions, Personnel Management,
Performance Management, HRD and Recruitment and Selection). PERSAL
knowledge and experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to travel within the district. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer skills: MS office packages (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, Outlook) and PERSAL Knowledge and experience to the duties
and responsibilities of a Human Resource section. Knowledge of applicable
policies, legislation, guidelines, standards, procedures and applicable
practices.
DUTIES : Administer and ensure effective and efficient implementation of HRM policies,
prescripts, approval of PERSAL transactions with regards to Personnel
provisioning, Personnel and Salary administration. Supervise Administration
Clerks to ensure effective functioning of the Human Resource Section.
Administer and ensure effective and efficient implementation to appointments,
service terminations, salary administration and general service conditions,
audit of leave and personnel files, debt management, pension administration
and management of pay sheets, administration of OSD and Grade
Progression, performance management and relevant reports. Administer and
maintain an effective and efficient Recruitment and Selection service.
Administer and maintain an effective and efficient Human Resource
Development service. Provide an effective support function to management
and personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Modisie Tel No: (021) 808-6178
242
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be required to do a practical test. The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within Stellenbosch Hospital, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.”
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/371 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FEES AND PATIENT ADMINISTRATION (X3
POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience
in a hospital environment. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
interpersonal and Labour relations abilities. Computer literacy (MS Word,
Excel). Knowledge of Budgeting. Good management skills. Sound knowledge
of Hospital Fees Regulations and Procedures, HIS (CLINICOM/AR) and BAS,
UPFS, PMFA and Treasury Instructions.
DUTIES : Manage and supervise a 24-hour unit, Wards or Clinics with a large component
of patient admin clerks. Management of CLINICOM, billing (AR), JAC, ICD10
coding, HECTIS and other fees related systems in line with revenue generation
projects. Manage HR, Labour issues including disciplinary processes wrt staff
and submit monthly reports and statistics. Manage and ensure the cash
collection and handover processes are followed effectively. Ensure accurate
classification of patients and management of all administration duties
ENQUIRIES : Mr MA Khan Tel No: (021) 404-3248
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be required to attend a practical test. The pool of applications
will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/372 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (ASSET
MANAGEMENT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
line with the duties (key result areas/outputs) of the post. Appropriate
administrative duties within a healthcare environment. Inherent requirements
of the job: Valid code B/EB driver’s license and willingness to travel within the
Northern Tygerberg district. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Working
knowledge and experience of Asset Management and Supply Chain
Management in the Public Service, have strong analytical and strategic
thinking abilities. Have computer skills in MS Office (i.e. Word, Excel,
PowerPoint and Outlook), good interpersonal, good organisational skills and
be able to work in a team context as well as motivate team members.
Knowledge of the PFMA, Finance Instructions, Provincial and National
Treasury regulations, Supply Chain Management Instructions as well as the
Accounting Officer System and have familiarity with LOGIS or Syspro.
Attention to detail and adherence to deadlines, strong organisational,
communication skills and have the ability to manage multiple priorities and
work independently.
243
DUTIES : Asset Register maintenance. Management of the Asset verification and
reconciliation process. Management of the disposal and loss control
processes. Management of the Asset procurement process. Management of
asset reporting. Effective Human Resources Management. Support to
Supervisor and Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Jacobs Tel No: (021) 918-1208
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for vacancies within (the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services), for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/373 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE/ADMIN (EXPENDITURE)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and /or Senior certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focusses on the Key
Performance Areas KPAs of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
LOGIS and BAS system. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s license
(Code B/EB) to attend workshops, meetings and courses. Competencies
(knowledge/ skills): Knowledge of the PFMA, National Treasury regulations,
Provincial Treasury directives, financial delegations, financial procedures and
instructions. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, BAS, Logis). Ability to
interpret and apply policies.
DUTIES : Document, control, verify, pre-authorise and authorisation of Logis and Bas
payments. Responsible for timeous clearance and maintenance of asset and
liability accounts. Provide an effective debt control function in accordance with
the debt management policy. Assist with the compilation and disclosure of AFS
and IFS documentation and reports. Facilitate, attend and provide training and
meetings in compliance of financial framework, policies and instructions.
Provide monthly reporting and analysis of all financial and supply chain
matters. Manage Human Resource Management and related functions within
the Finance component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Jacobs Tel No: (023) 348-1106
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for vacancies within Worcester Regional Hospital for a period of 3
months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/374 : SENIOR FORENSIC PATHOLOGY OFFICER (X8 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency And Clinical Services Support
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Beaufort West, Wolseley, Hermanus, Knysna, Malmesbury, Mossel Bay,
Vredenburg and Vredendal L2 (Non-Referral) Forensic Pathology
Laboratories.
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate Forensic (Medico-legal) experience as a Forensic
Pathology Officer. Appropriate experience in supporting the manager with
Corporate Governance functions. Inherent requirements of the job: A Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Must be competent in forensic investigation and
evisceration. Knowledge of Finance and Supply Chain in the FPL setting and
ability to support revenue and expenditure management processes. Analytical
Skills to monitor utilisation of consumables and project needs for demand
management and procurement planning. Will be required to assist in the
planning/training of Major incident exercises as well as involvement in Major
incidents. Will be required to work office duties, standby duties and overtime
244
duties. Ability to be trained in 4 x 4 vehicle handling and photography skills.
Ability to lift and work with corpses (mutilated, decomposed, infectious viruses,
etc). Will be required to wear a uniform. Knowledge of Fleet, Assets and Stores
Management.
DUTIES : Efficient support to the Manager regarding operational management of the
Forensic Pathology Laboratory. Efficient support to the Manager regarding
Corporate Governance aspects. Effective Management of the Forensic
Pathology Assistant Program. Effective Operational Service Delivery at the
Facility.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Fyfe, email; sean.fyfe@westerncape.gov.za or email; Mr B Jonker at
brent.jonker@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The candidate
will be subjected to an interview and competency test. Candidates will be
subjected to security clearance prior to appointment. Shortlisted candidates
may be subjected to a psychometric evaluation. “The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within (Forensic Pathology Service, Garden Route
Central Karoo and or West Coast Facilities), for a period of three months from
the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
Candidates must indicate which facilities they are applying for and their 3
orders of priority with number 1 being their highest priority.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/375 : PRINCIPAL PERSONNEL OFFICER: (EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AND
POLICIES & PRACTICES)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : People Management: Employee Benefits and Policies & Practices
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate or equivalent.
Experience: Appropriate experience in Employee Benefits and Policies &
Practices. Appropriate experience in PERSAL. Inherent requirements of the
job: Willingness to travel. Valid Driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer skills MS Office packages (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint) Outlook and PERSAL and numeracy skills. Extensive knowledge
of PERSAL and People Management prescripts in the Public Service. Good
interpersonal and organisational skills and ability to function under pressure
and meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Effective management of the Benefit Administration section and Policies &
Practices. Effective supervision and development of staff. Render an efficient
and effective support and advisory service to personnel functionaries at
institutions and management of audit investigations and ensure compliance.
Provide an effective support function to supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms FG Malan Tel No: (021) 815-8837
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant Principal Personnel Officer
(Employee Benefits and Policies & Practices) posts within the Chief Director
Emergency & Clinical Services Support, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/376 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate or equivalent.
Experience: Appropriate supervisory experience. Appropriate experience in
healthcare support services. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid (code
B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to do standby and work overtime.
Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Computer literacy and thorough knowledge
245
of computer systems (MS Office, Logis). Good organizational and
administrative skills. Good decision making and conflict management skills.
Working knowledge of support services management. Ability to extract,
analyse and compile reports from systems.
DUTIES : Supervise and maintain acceptable standards of quality of services delivered
by the Support Services components (Transport, Registry, Switchboard,
Porters, Residence and Recreational areas). Efficient and cost effective
monitoring, evaluation and reporting of monthly expenditures against allocated
budget. Supervise support staff, manage leave and performance, and ensure
compliance with HR policies and disciplinary procedures. Effective and efficient
support within Support Services. Effective and efficient administration of the
services. Ensure relevant policy implementation and compliance (Occupational
Health & Safety, Ideal Hospital Framework, National Core Standards, etc) at
the Hospital.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Piet Tel No: (023) 348-1125
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for vacancies within Worcester Regional Hospital for a period of 3
months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/377 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING) (VARIOUS
COMPONENTS) (X6 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with the professional council: Registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Experience: Grade1: None after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts,
night duty, overtime, public holiday and weekends. Willingness to rotate to
different wards according to operational requirements. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Basic Computer literacy (MS Office). Ability to function
independently, as well as in a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good patient
care. Excellent communication skills (both written and verbal).
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice and quality patient care). Implement standards, practices,
criteria, and indicators for quality nursing. Practice nursing and healthcare in
accordance with relevant laws and regulations. Maintain constructive working
relationships with nursing and other stakeholders. Utilize human, material, and
physical resources efficiently and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Sabie Tel No: (021) 360-4706
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
246
Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates will be
subjected to a practical/oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/378 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL: INTEGRATED
SCHOOL HEALTH PROGRAM)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : PHC Support & Outreach, George Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with the professional council: Registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willing to work in
all Primary Health Care facilities e.g. Community Day Centres, Clinics, Satellite
clinics and on Mobile Clinics. Willingness to work after hours and to travel as
required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (Word, Excel).
Good interpersonal, communication skills. Ability to work independently and in
a multi-disciplinary team. Knowledge of Community Oriented Primary care.
DUTIES : Provide clinical school health services within the George Sub District to
learners with parental consent in schools, i.e. health assessment, immunisation
& deworming. Participate in campaigns. Support the CCW and the teacher as
part of the team within the school environment as well as the professional nurse
in special schools. Support the PHC facility with the rendering of a youth
friendly service after school hours and in school holidays. Monitor referrals and
link with community structures. Monitor and Evaluate the Program, data
management and reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M F J Marthinus Tel No: (044) 814-1100
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post. Candidates will be subjected to a practical/written assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/379 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING: WARD)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as
a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
247
years’ appropriate/ recognizable experience in nursing after registration with
the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of
20 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with
the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of
the job: Willingness to work shifts, day & night duty, weekends, public holidays
and overtime to meet the operational requirements. Willingness to rotate to
other wards when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer
literacy (MS Word and Excel). Planning and organisational skills. The ability to
function independently under pressure. Knowledge and insight into protocols
and policies pertaining to nursing practices in a hospital setting.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic nursing care with set standards and within a
professional/legal framework. Effective utilisation of resources. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development. Provision of
Support to Nursing Services. Participation in training and research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Linden-Mars Tel No: (021) 918-1224
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a
written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/380 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING:
TRAINING: CHP: COMMUNITY BASED SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Southern/Western Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with the Professional Council Registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to
travel and work after hours. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and
understanding of Integrated Health and Wellness/Community Based Services
and NPO Sector Management. Knowledge and understanding of the Nursing
Code of Ethics and Professional Scope of Practice of SANC. Computer literacy
in MS Office Suite (MS Word, Excel, Power-Point), MS Outlook, database
management. Proficiency in report writing. Appropriate training/facilitation
experience.
DUTIES : Planning, co-ordination, implementation, and facilitation of formal training
programmes for metro health district staff and NPO Staff: Professional Nurses
and Community Health Workers. Facilitate in-service training and orientation
programmes. Mentoring and coaching of staff. Skills and competency updates.
Monitoring, evaluation and analysis of training programmes / activities/
competencies and skills to ensure quality health service delivery. Internal and
External Collaboration on training programmes to ensure effective capacity
248
building. Effective Management, co-ordination, administration, and reporting of
Teaching Programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Y Cottee Tel No: (021) 202-0925
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/381 : PARAMEDIC GRADE 1 TO 4 (CLINICAL LEAD) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R321 372 per annum
Grade 2: R397 308 per annum
Grade 3: R487 014 per annum
Grade 4: R570 267 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services, Metropole
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 1: Successful completion of the
Critical Care Assistant (CCA) programmes that allows registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Paramedic. Grade 2:
Successful completion of the Critical Care Assistant programme or a
Recognized National Diploma that allows registration with the HPCSA as
Paramedic. Grade 3: Successful completion of the Critical Care Assistant
(CCA) programme or a Recognized National Diploma that allows registration
with the HPCSA as Paramedic or B Tech Degree that allows registration with
the HPCSA as Emergency Care Practitioner. Grade 4: Successful completion
of the Critical Care Assistant (CCA) programme or a Recognized National
Diploma that allows registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic or B Tech
Degree that allows registration with the HPCSA as Emergency Care
Practitioner. Registration with the professional council: Grade 1: Registration
with the HPCSA as Paramedic (CCA). Grade 2: Registration with the HPCSA
as Paramedic with CCA or National Diploma. Grade 3: Registration with the
HPCSA as Paramedic with CCA or National Diploma or ECP. Grade 4:
Registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic with CCA or National Diploma or
ECP. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as
Paramedic (CCA). -Grade 2: 7 years after registration with the HPCSA as
Paramedic (CCA). None after registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic with
National Diploma. Grade 3: Registered Paramedic (CCA) - 14 years after
registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered Paramedic (NDip) - 7
years after registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic. Registered ECP–
None. Grade 4: Registered Paramedic (CCA) - 24 years after registration with
the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered Paramedic (NDip) -17 years after
registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered ECP’s -10 years after
registration with the HPCSA as an ECP. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
code C1 driver’s license. Physical and mental fitness. Valid professional
driver’s permit (PrDP). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent knowledge
of all levels of emergency care protocols within the scope of registration
category. Good communication and interpersonal skills. Computer literacy and
skills.
DUTIES : The primary purpose of this role: Establish and enhance Continuous Clinical
Improvement mechanisms within the WCGHW Emergency Medical Services
to deliver quality, efficient roadside-to-bedside emergency care within defined
timeframes across all geographic and clinical service platforms. Core Duties:
Patient Care Excellence: Ensure the dignity and rights of all patients are upheld
at all times. Maintain consistently high-quality patient care standards across
the entire service. Deliver continuous, effective, and holistic pre-hospital
249
emergency care to the Western Cape public. Clinical Leadership &
Development: Partner with healthcare and emergency service professionals to
develop evidence-based care pathways, protocols, policies, and clinical
guidelines alongside the Head of Clinical Support Services. Provide clinical
advice and support to prehospital providers for effective clinical decision-
making. Establish living clinical improvement and coaching mechanisms to
enhance provider capabilities. Quality Improvement & Innovation: Design and
implement targeted clinical improvement initiatives based on current evidence
and contextual appropriateness. Oversee the management and performance
of recognised emergency procedures for both urgent and critical care cases.
Establish living clinical oversight models to actively monitor and evaluate
clinical practice effectiveness. Strategic Implementation: Promote patient-
centred practices across the full spectrum of current and planned clinical
services within WCGHW EMS. Provide strong clinical leadership throughout
the organisation to drive continuous improvement. Performance Management
Monitor service delivery against established emergency timeframes and quality
benchmarks. Evaluate and enhance clinical practices through systematic
oversight and feedback mechanisms. Drive organisational excellence through
strategic leadership and clinical governance.
ENQUIRIES : Dr N Abdullah at (063) 780-8164 or email:
@naseef.abdullah@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates are
subjects to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Emergency Medical Services, for a period of three months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/382 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST-BASIC) GRADE 1 TO 3 (X2 POSTS)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R264 750 per annum
Grade 2: R 306 411 per annum
Grade 3: R330 540 per annum
CENTRE : Vredenburg Hospital, Saldanha Bay Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: A qualification that allows registration with
the SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post Basic) Institutional or Pharmacist
Assistant (Post Basic, as required by the training facility and the South African
Pharmacy Council (SAPC). Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SAPC registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post Basic)
(Institutional) or Pharmacist Assistant (Post Basic). Experience: Grade 1: None
after registration as Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post Basic) with the SAPC. Grade
2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after
registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Grade 3:
A minimum of 13 years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after
registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to
perform regular after hour duties. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer
literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Ability to work
accurately under pressure and maintain a high standard of professionalism.
Ability to work in a multi-disciplinary team with excellent interpersonal and
communication skills. Appropriate knowledge of National and Provincial Health
Policies, Medicines Act 101of 1965, the Pharmacy Act 53 of 1974 and Public
Finance Management Act. Appropriate clinical and pharmaceutical knowledge.
Knowledge with JAC/WellSky dispensing system. Time management, strategic
planning, prioritizing of tasks.
250
DUTIES : Effective control of pharmaceutical stock. Ensure effective Pharmaceutical
Care (Dispensing) including the Chronic Dispensing Unit within the Sub
District. Assist with collection of Pharmacy Data and recordkeeping. Promote
and assist with optimal Pharmaceutical Advisory Service with the relevant
multi-disciplinary teams. Ensure effective Quality of Health Service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Julius Tel No: 022 709 7237
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test and/or competency test. No
payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/383 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST BASIC) GRADE 1 TO 3
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R264 750 per annum
Grade 2: R306 411 per annum
Grade 3: R330 540 per annum
CENTRE : Calitzsdorp CC, Kannaland Sub-district, (Stationed at Alan Blyth Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: As required by the training facility and the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) plus Post-Basic Pharmacist Assistant
qualification that allows registration with SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant
(Post-Basic) or Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) Institutional. Registration
with a professional council: Registration with the South African Pharmacy
Council as Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post- Basic) (Institutional) or Pharmacist
Assistant (Post-Basic). Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
SAPC as Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic). Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a
Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Grade 3: A minimum of 13
years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a
Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid driver’s license (Code B/EB)) and willingness to travel in the Sub-
district. Willingness to work at other clinics in the Sub-district. Willingness to
work overtime and after hours as needed. Competencies (knowledge/ skills):
Good knowledge of institutional pharmacy practices and procedures.
Knowledge and/or experience in handling pharmaceutical supplies in both the
hospital and clinic environment, including appropriate cold chain practices.
Knowledge of Drug Supply Management Principles. Knowledge of Good
Pharmacy Practice. Meticulous and diligent. Good interpersonal and
communication skills. Computer literacy in the Microsoft Office Package. Ability
to use at least one of the computerised dispensing and stock control programs
available. Physically ability to move heavy pharmaceutical items at various
heights in the pharmacy storeroom.
DUTIES : Working under both direct and indirect supervision of a pharmacist within the
hospital and clinic environment, respectively. Manage drug supply within the
facilities, including but not limited to correct ordering of stock, receiving and
checking of stock, appropriate stock control and storage, rotation of stock to
prevent expiry, accurate handling of expired stock, and appropriate
temperature control. Dispensing and issuing of acute and chronic scripts
according to Standard Treatment Guidelines and the WCGHW Pharmaceutical
Code List. Issuing medication prepared by Tertiary Institutions and CDU
(Chronic Dispensing Unit) and the management thereof. Support to the
pharmacy supervisor and colleagues within the Kannaland Sub-district, within
scope of practice. Ensure the provision of high-quality services measured by
outcomes of quality assurance activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Canovi Tel No: (028) 551-1010
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. “Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
251
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three months from the
date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/384 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST-BASIC) GRADE 1 TO 3 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R264 750 per annum
Grade 2: R306 411 per annum
Grade 3: R330 540 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: As required by the training facility and the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) plus Post-Basic Pharmacist Assistant
qualification that allows registration with SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant
(Post-Basic) or Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) Institutional. Registration
with the professional council: Registration with the SAPC as Pharmacist’s
Assistant (Post-Basic) or Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post-Basic) (Institutional)
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the SAPC as Pharmacist’s
Assistant (Post-Basic) (Institutional). Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years
appropriate experience as Pharmacist’s Assistant after registration as
Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post-Basic) (Institutional) with the SAPC. Grade 3: A
minimum of 13 years appropriate experience as Pharmacist’s Assistant after
registration as Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post-Basic) (Institutional) with the
SAPC. Inherent requirements of the job: Ability and willingness to work in a
close team environment with rotating duties and according to task lists and
rosters, in the pharmacy and greater hospital. Willingness to safely prepare
and mix chemotherapy /cytotoxic prescriptions including working in a biological
safety cabinet/ laminar flow mixing area. Ability and willingness to perform
regular after-hours service duties, working weekend/public holiday shifts with
reduced staffing – remunerated according to state policy. Computer literacy,
with competency level of speed and accuracy required for in- and out-patient
dispensing, orders, data capturing, stock control and invoicing, all within limited
deadlines. -Logistics and order fulfilment, with competency level of speed and
accuracy required for daily duties, within limited deadlines. Ability to safely
climb a ladder and push / pull heavy trolleys or similar connecting to motions
such as lifting, retrieving, carrying items with various weight, size and height
involvement. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS office:
Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook), Teams, and dispensing /stock control
programs of which Wellsky (JAC) will be an advantage. Ability to work with
attention to detail, alone or in a team under pressure, while maintaining a high
standard of accuracy and professionalism. Good work etiquette with the ability
to work in multi-disciplinary teams, servicing various levels of customers, with
excellent interpersonal communication and conflict management skills. -
Appropriate working knowledge of National and Provincial public health
policies and guidelines, Medicine Act 101 of 1965, the Pharmacy Act 53 of
1974, GPP. Medicine Supply Management principles and Public Finance
Management Act. Appropriate practical clinical and pharmaceutical knowledge
as listed in all the levels of the National Essential Medicine Lists. Innovative
analytical thinking and the ability to initiate, co-ordinate, manage and sustain
programs, with cost consciousness.
DUTIES : Providing a safe, efficient, cost-effective, fully comprehensive pharmaceutical
service delivery according to legislation and scope of practice, under direct or
indirect supervision. Ensuring customer centered focus, with provision of
health/product information advice and effective rational usage and storage of
all medication. Providing effective medicine supply management,
administration and documentation (receiving, storage, control, distribution,
operations relating to pharmaceuticals) including cold chain management in all
areas related to pharmacy services and the greater hospital complex, where
medications are kept. -Compliance with National and Provincial Health policies
252
and guidelines, legislative requirements, National regulatory Frameworks,
Good Pharmacy Practice guidelines and institutional requirements, including
waste management practices and remaining constantly updated with changes
and development. Represent the hospital pharmacy service profession, driven
by Western Cape Government values culture, in performing duties to ensure
adherence and compliance of self and co-workers, to minimum standards for
accessibility and pharmaceutical services, while maintaining rational use of all
hospital resources Actively participate in and represent pharmacy on meetings
or in multidisciplinary teams, which may include, but not limited to Occupational
Health and Safety, Infection Prevention and Control, Cold chain and
temperature management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SN Brits Tel No: (044) 802-4492
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within George Regional Hospital, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/385 : SOCIAL WORKER GRADE 1 TO 4 (PRODUCTION: NEW BEGINNINGS
HOUSE) (6/8TH POST)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R243 900 per annum
Grade 2: R297 840 per annum
Grade 3: R358 173 per annum
Grade 4: R439 080 per annum
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification as a Social
Worker that allows for registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professionals (SACSSP). Registration with the professional council:
Registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP) as Social Worker. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience in social work after
registration as a Social Worker with the SACSSP. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate experience in social work after registration as a Social
Worker with the SACSSP. Grade 4: A minimum of 30 years appropriate
experience in social work after registration as a social worker with the
SACSSP. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid (code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to render a clinical social
work practise as a member of a multi-disciplinary team in a Specialist Acute
Mental Health Care setting. Sound knowledge and skills in psycho-social
assessment, family and individual counselling skills. Knowledge of relevant
statutory processes. Computer literacy. Good verbal and written
communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide clinical social work services with regards to the care, support,
protection and development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and
communities. Utilise specialist knowledge and skills to conduct psychosocial
assessments, counsel individuals and families. Network effectively internally
with the multi-disciplinary team as well as with relevant external role players.
Conduct appropriate referrals to relevant role players and stake holders. -
Actively contribute to development of care and safety plans. Deliver
accountable services through the application of the Social Work Administrative
process. Integrated Programme Facilitation and community work, programme
management and community outreach services. Ensure continued
professional development by keeping updated with developments in the field.
253
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Kilian Tel No: (021) 940-4468
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. “Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/386 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A TO C (MECHANICAL)
SALARY : Grade A: R243 597 per annum
Grade B: R285 816 per annum
Grade C: R332 061 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in
appropriate field. Experience: Grade A: No experience required. Grade B: At
least 18 years appropriate/recognisable experience in the area after obtaining
the relevant Trade Test Certificate. Grade C: At least 34 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in the area after obtaining the relevant
Trade Test Certificate. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Ability to perform standby and overtime duties. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in the mechanical, general
mechanical repairs and the ability to carry out basic general welding.
Appropriate knowledge of Machinery, pumps, compressors, steam systems
and sterilizing equipment. Ability to work independently and under pressure,
with good organisational as well as team skills. Good communication skills
(verbal and written). Ability to plan ahead (pro-active), as well as working in a
team and to learn and comply with in-house systems and procedures.
Conversant with the requirements of the Machinery and Occupational Health
and Safety Acts, NBR and SABA 1475. Ability to operate and use required
tools and equipment skilfully and safely.
DUTIES : Maintain and repair all plant and equipment at the Hospital under the
supervision of the Artisan Foreman. Perform necessary administrative
functions, train and supervise subordinates. Assist with the execution of
engineering projects and control over tools and materials. Assist Artisan
Foreman with his duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Sishuba Tel No: (021) 938- 6100
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/387 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT SERVICES (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate Secretarial and Office Administration experience.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills (verbal and
written). Knowledge of secretarial and office administration practices and
minute-taking skills. Computer literacy (MS Office, Word, and Excel) and typing
proficiency. Willingness to undergo development courses.
DUTIES : Providing administration and secretarial support services, office management,
and reception functions. Answering telephonic queries and delivering
messages. Ordering of stationery, equipment, and office consumables. Typing
254
of documents, reports, correspondence, and keeping an effective filing system.
Prepare meetings and take minutes. Ensure timely submission of statistical
data, as well as collate and compile databases, rosters, and monthly reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Makeba Tel No: (021) 404 4038
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/388 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE/ADMIN (FINANCE
INCOME/ADMISSIONS)
West Coast District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Vredendal Hospital, Matzikama Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience
in a hospital and patient fees environment. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work overtime and as reliever for the Admissions section.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and organisational skills,
and computer literacy (MS Office). Good verbal and written communication
skills. Knowledge of Uniform Patient Fees Schedule (UPFS), Hospital
Memorandum 18 and Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Knowledge of
CLINICOM and AR systems.
DUTIES : Rendering of billing services to in-patients - control the correctness of the
hospital patient bills, medical aids, road accident fund and privately funded
patients. Rendering of billing services to out-patients. Follow-up procedures
and release of invoices. Patient administration support services, including the
printing of reports to identify all State Departments, WCA, RAF, H2, H3,
Medical Aid and Private Doctor out-patients admitted and discharged. Liaise
with relevant role players in matters relating to Patient Administration, Hospital
Fees, and Case Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CA Davids Tel No: (027) 213 2038
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/389 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
(PROCUREMENT) (STORES)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
a Supply chain environment and/or within Health Sector Commodities. Inherent
requirements of the job: Rotate within the Supply Chain Section and relieve
colleagues. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (i.e. MS
Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Sound communication, organisational
and interpersonal skills. Knowledge of Supply Chain Management processes,
PFMA and the Accounting Officers System. Knowledge of LOGIS, EPS and
ESL.
DUTIES : Demand and acquisition (i.e. assist with identifying procurement plan items and
ESL). Source quotations: Advertise requests on EPS to source quotations,
perform an SCM evaluation of such quotes and guide users on how to
evaluate. Generate and place orders with suppliers and maintain filing and
complete adjudication of awarded orders on EPS. Prepare documentation for
quotation committee meetings. Ensure that all transactions comply with
255
legislative requirements. Handle telephonic and written enquiries from
Directorates and Suppliers and perform relief duties within SCM component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Jacobs Tel No: (023) 348-1106
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for vacancies within Worcester Regional Hospital for a period of 3
months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/390 : PERSONNEL OFFICER
Directorate: People Strategy
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (Bellville Health Park)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate or equivalent (NQF 4).
Experience: Appropriate experience in the field of administration.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good computer (MS Word and Excel).
Numeracy and mathematical skills. Good interpersonal skills and the ability to
work in a team context. Knowledge of Human Resource prescripts in Public
Service. Ability to function under pressure and meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Assist with research pertaining to policy formulation on Organisational
development, structural changes in the Health Environment. Render general
administrative support services. Arrange meetings, workshops, and
stakeholder consultations. Provide efficient support services to the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TBR Petersen, Email: theodore.petersen@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/391 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Breede Rivier Clinic, Witzenberg-Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Must be
prepared to work 8 hours (i.e., Monday-Friday) and overtime when required.
Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license and willingness to travel across the Sub-
district. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word and
Excel). The ability to accept accountability and responsibility with good
interpersonal skills, the ability to maintain confidentiality, and excellent
communication skills (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Compile headcount daily, weekly, and monthly data. Capturing data and
compliments, and complaints on SINJANI. Generate an Appointments list for
follow-up clients from Tier.net Folder drawn according to Tier.net appointment
list. Folders prepared for the next day (blood results filed/ stickers printed). If a
new client facility folder is to be opened, the correct stationery placed in the
folder, and stickers are to be printed.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Wawini Tel No: (023) 316-9600
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a practical test. “The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Witzenberg Sub-district, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.”
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/392 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (QUALITY ASSURANCE) (X3
POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
256
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Must be
willing to work shifts. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication
skills (verbal and written). Computer literacy. Accurate data capturing skills.
Good organisational and interpersonal communication skills. Ability to work
independently and within a team. Ability to execute duties accurately and
thoroughly.
DUTIES : Providing effective customer care and support to patients and their families.
Control and maintain order in patient waiting areas. Perform reception duties
and answer queries, including dealing with staff, patients and visitors
(telephonic and walk-in). Create and maintain databases for compilation of
monthly reports. Type documents, reports and correspondence. Effective
records management. Effective use of resources and consumables.
Willingness to accept additional duties as assigned by your
Supervisor/Manager. Relief and other related duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Khan Tel No: (021) 404 6441
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical assessment. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/393 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
(PROCUREMENT) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Minimum educational qualification: Senior
Certificate (or equivalent) with Mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed
subject, and/or Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with experience/competencies
that focus on the Key Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Inherent
requirements of the job: Perform overtime duties when required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of LOGIS and the Electronic Procurement
Solutions (EPS). Good verbal and written communication skills. Computer
literacy in MS Word, MS Excel, and Outlook. Good organisational skills.
Knowledge of procurement, infrastructure services (16B), equipment, medical
supplies, and contract management process. Knowledge of PFMA, Finance
instructions, Provincial and Treasury regulations Knowledge of the Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Act 5 of 2000 (PPPFA). Knowledge in the
procurement of infrastructure services (16B), equipment, and medical supplies
in an SCM environment.
DUTIES : Assist and download quotations via e-PS, perform close-outs on e-PS, and
prepare submission documentation for the quotation committee (QC) Assist
with the entire lifecycle of procurement: specification development, advertising,
evaluation, adjudication, award, order placement on LOGIS, delivery
confirmation, and expenditure report if needed, for a specific order or contract
Perform formal and informal procurement transactions, including compliance
with relevant threshold policies. Assist with the drafting, renewal, and
monitoring of mini-contracts, institutional contracts, leases, and service-level
agreements. Assist with maintaining a contract register and ensure timely
alerts before expiry. Support with audits of active contracts, ensuring contract
files are updated with all required documentation. Liaise with service providers
and internal departments for the amendment, renewal, or cancellation of
contracts as required. Assist with the development of performance monitoring
tools for Ensure compliance with relevant laws and regulations pertaining to
supply chain management Maintain the 0-9 file and ensure daily filling is done.
Effective and efficient knowledge of the Procurement on the LOGIS and
Electronic Procurement Solutions (ePS) environment. Provide support to the
AO, SAO, and colleagues by attending meetings, addressing procurement-
related queries, and relieving staff during absences. Ensure clear written and
verbal communication across the component. Assist with the submission of
procurement plans, deviation reports, and urgent procurement memos. Liaise
257
with internal clients (end-users) and external suppliers/government
departments on SCM matters. Ensure adherence to SCM policies, procedures,
and regulations, including 16A & 16B frameworks. Regularly update the 0–9
file and ensure all procurement documentation is filed daily. Generate accurate
weekly, monthly, and ad hoc procurement reports for the AO, SAO, ASD, and
other relevant stakeholders. Assist in internal and external audit preparations,
ensuring completeness of files. Capture and track procurement of assets and
ensure correct alignment with budget allocations and equipment planning.
Ensure accurate reporting of infrastructure and capital equipment
procurements in line with Equipment Committee and budget timelines. Assist
with institutional annual stock counts, Liaise with end users, service providers
and other Governmental departments regarding Supply Chain matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr O Zibaya /Mr A Jensel Tel No: (021) 658-5698/5486
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/394 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Hanover Park Community Health Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administrative experience. Appropriate experience in
PHCIS/ CLINICOM. Inherent requirements of the job: Prepared to work 12-
hour shifts (which include night duty, weekends and Public holidays) and work
overtime on short notice. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy.
Good interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to accept accountability
and responsibility, and to work independently and unsupervised, as well as in
a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Registration and capturing of patient information on PHCIS. Recordkeeping,
filing, retrieving, tracing of folders, disposal and archiving of folders. Effective
and efficient handling of patient documentation. Perform relief duties within
facility as needed. Effective and efficient handling of enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M James Tel No: (021) 684-1302
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical, and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/395 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as passed subject or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with appropriate experience that focuses on the Key Performance
Area's (KRA's) of post. Experience: Appropriate administrative experience in
line with the duties (key result areas/outputs). Appropriate administrative
experience in a clinical or healthcare setting. Appropriate experience in
SYSPRO/LOGIS. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB/C1)
driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Working knowledge and
experience of Asset Management and Supply Chain Management. Functional
Computer skills in MS Office (i.e. Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook).
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook) and familiarity with Syspro or
LOGIS. Good interpersonal and organisational skills. Knowledge of Accounting
Officer System.
DUTIES : Asset Management. (Maintenance, Register Management, AOS compliance).
Asset Verification. Disposal Management. Additions of assets Management.
Operational leases Management. Support to supervisor and management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Groenewald Tel No: (021) 938-4911
258
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be expected to undergo a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/396 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent)
qualification. Experience: Appropriate administrative experience.
Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Computer proficiency in MS Word, Excel
and MS Office. Good interpersonal relations, communication, service
orientation and organizational skills. Ability to interpret and implement relevant
financial instructions. Ability to think analytically and logically and ability to work
under pressure. Good human relations.
DUTIES : Provide effective and efficient general office administration, including logistical
support, coordinating meetings and visits, minute taking, file administration and
outreach or events support. Administrative support to the Health Program,
Health Services including support to NPO partners and other Stakeholders.
Ensure compliance with the appropriate Financial Management prescripts.
Assist with the budget breakdowns for the NPO, contract documents and
update the NGO’s records/files accordingly. Supply Chain Management
function with regard to ordering of stationary, stock Information, Education and
Communication materials (receive and distribute) and maintaining an up-to-
date inventory of stock. Administer the GMT system at the designated authority
level, ensuring timely completion of trip authorities and overnight travel
applications. Submit monthly security reports where applicable. Load
maintenance request on DOHENG portal. Assist and support the supervisor
and Programme and Services Manager(s).
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Strauss Tel No: (021) 360-4662
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subject to a practical/written and oral assessment. The pool
of applicants will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided
that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/397 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (X2 POSTS)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Winelands TB Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with SANC as a
Staff Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work overtime
when necessary. Will be required to work shifts, weekends, and public
holidays. Must be prepared to assist in all departments according to operational
needs. Ability to work under pressure. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication, planning and interpersonal skills. Ability to work in the
multidisciplinary team. Enhance patient care through the implementation of
SOP’s, policies, and guidelines.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care to all patients. Provide
basic clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Van Rooyen Tel No: (023) 348 -1309
259
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). “The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Cape Winelands TB Centre, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/398 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (THEATRE AND CSSD)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Vredenburg Hospital, Saldanha Bay Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Staff Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration
with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as a Staff Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work
shifts, public holidays, after-hours, night duty, weekends and overtime when
necessary. Willingness to work in all departments(wards) of nursing according
to operational needs per rotational schedule. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of the Nursing Act and relevant regulations Knowledge of the
Medicines Control Act, Mental Health Care Act, Child Health Act, and other
relevant legislation. Good communication, planning and interpersonal skills.
Ability to work in a multi-disciplinary team and enhance patient care through
implementation of SOP’s, policies and guidelines.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care plans. Provide clinical
nursing care. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain Professional growth/
ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Lester Tel No: (022) 709-7257
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Saldanha Sub-District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/399 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (NEW BEGINNINGS HOUSE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
260
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty, weekends, and public holidays
to meet the operational requirements. Must be prepared to rotate and assist in
all departments according to operational requirements. Experience: Grade 1:
None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/ recognisable experience
in nursing after registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years appropriate/ recognisable experience in nursing after registration
with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge
of nursing care and procedures, nursing statutes, and other relevant legal
frameworks. Must have good communication skills. Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Provide basic clinical nursing care. Development and implementation of basic
patient care plans. Facilitate the provision of health care and education
according to individual needs of patients, family and community. Effective
utilization of resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and
self-development. Reporting on patient safety and adverse incidents Effective
record keeping.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Le Roux Tel No: (021) 940-4424
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. “Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/400 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (ICU HIGH CARE – 1 POST), (THEATRE- X1
POST), (OBSETETRICS AND GYNAECOLOGY – X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Staff Nurse. Registration with the professional council: Registration
with the South African Nursing Council as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1:
None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/ recognisable experience
in nursing after registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years appropriate/ recognisable experience in nursing after registration
with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job: Ability to work
shifts during the day and night, weekends and public holidays and overtime
when required by supervisor. Willingness to rotate within different Functional
Business Units. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge of SANC
Regulation which prescribe nursing practice. The ability to function
independently in a multi-disciplinary team and the ability to direct the team to
ensure quality nursing care. Good interpersonal and communication skills.
Ability to deal with conflict situations and make sound decisions under
pressure.
DUTIES : Develop and implement basic patient care by providing individual direct and
indirect health care under supervision of the Professional Nurse. Responsible
for providing basic clinical nursing care within SANC Scope of Practice and
competency training as required. Effective health promotion and information to
patient/client and community. Participate in the effective utilization of physical
261
and financial resources to maintain standards and ensure quality care.
Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Bruiners Tel No: (023) 348-1104
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for vacancies within Worcester Regional Hospital for a period of 3
months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/401 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Conville CDC, George Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Registration with the professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Staff Nurse with the SANC. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Staff Nurse with the SANC. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to
work extended hours, after hours, outreaches on projects. Willingness to rotate
to the hospital facility and other clinics in the Sub-district when needed.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills. Self- discipline
and motivation.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care plans. Provide basic
clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self- development. Take actions to improve
quality of nursing care. Participate in infection prevention and control.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Marthinus Tel No: (044) 814 -1100
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/402 : LABORATORY ASSISTANT (TOXICOLOGY)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, Observatory Forensic Pathology Institute
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or Equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in a Biomedical Laboratory. Appropriate
262
experience in using laboratory equipment such as centrifuges, vortexes,
balances, and pipettes and pipetting skills. Appropriate experience in handling
human biological samples and other hazardous chemicals/ waste and gases.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver's license.
Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Above average competency use of
Microsoft programs including both Word and Excel. The ability to work in a
biohazardous environment, perform heavy manual tasks and the ability to work
under pressure. Basic understanding of calculations necessary for the
preparation of chemical solutions. Good interpersonal relationships and
working both individually and in a team. Must be ethical, honest and take
accountability. Understand basic laboratory equipment and how to follow SOP
for their maintenance and monitoring. Good Laboratory Practice. Self-
management. Good hand-eye coordination and manual dexterity. Ability to
effectively manage multiple priorities and adapt to change within a fast-paced
environment. Attention to detail and accuracy in record keeping and data
numerical and text entry. Proficiency in office equipment. Ability to
communicate clearly and discreetly in person and in writing.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient Laboratory Upkeep and Support. Effective and efficient
Testing Support. Efficient Specimen handling and Management. Effective and
efficient Inventory, Facility and Admin Support.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Davies Tel No: (021) 406-6026/6412 or Bronwen.Davies@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a security clearance prior to appointment. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for vacancies within Forensic Medicine and Toxicology,
Observatory Forensic Pathology Institute, for a period of three months from the
date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/403 : LABORATORY ASSISTANT (DENTAL MECHANICS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Oral Health Centre, Tygerberg/Mitchell’s Plain
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in a Dental Laboratory as a Laboratory
Assistant. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills. Good
interpersonal skills. Ability to maintain equipment.
DUTIES : Provide effective support services in the Dental Laboratory. Provide a support
service to dental technicians for eg. invest and pack dentures, Pouring and
trimming of models and articulate working models. Assist Dental Technicians
in handling materials, equipment and errands pertaining to their scope of
practice. Provide support within the dental laboratory stores. Basic
maintenance of laboratory equipment. Provide basic administrative support
and keep proper statistics of work done in input and output registers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MV Adams Tel No: (021) 937-3068 or email: mvadams@uwc.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates will be subjected to a written and oral assessment. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/404 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT (MECHANICAL) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 Certificate or (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in the mechanical field, general
mechanical repairs. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strict adherence to the
Occupational Health and Safety Act. Ability to plan ahead (pro-active), work
263
independently as well as in a team and it would be required for the officer to
learn & comply with in-house systems & procedures. Good communication
skills (verbal and written). Ability to work independently and under pressure.
Ability to carry out basic general welding tasks.
DUTIES : Maintain and repair equipment at the hospital. Assist with the execution of
mechanical projects which will include fabrication & welding. Assist other
departments within the workshop set up. Assist Artisans in the performance of
their duties, and clean areas where work has been carried out. Complete and
return repair requisitions and assist in ordering and controlling the workshop,
materials and tools.
ENQUIRIES : Mr AK Mgcodo / Mr EM Sithole Tel No: (021) 404-6251 / 6212
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/405 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT (MECHANICAL)
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate handyman experience within a Health environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid driver’s license. Must be prepared to work
overtime and do standby duties. Must be physically able to perform duties
required. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Ability to function independently,
plan ahead (pro-active) and work in a team. Ability to adhere to safety
standards. Ability to handle conflict and problem-solving situations.
DUTIES : Assist with repairs and installation of projects, emergency breakdowns,
supervise and in-service training of co-workers. Maintain and repair
mechanical equipment, repair of plant equipment, furniture (Beds), fixtures and
fittings mechanical. Assist in preventive maintenance procedures, including
autoclave, steam generators, water tanks, chlorifiers. Basic welding repairs
and installations. Obtaining quotations, order and control of materials as
needed to complete requisitions. Strict adherence to the Occupational Health
and Safety Act.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Frasenburg Tel No: (021) 938-4237
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/406 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Ceres Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 (equivalent to Standard 8).
Experience: Appropriate experience in building, air-conditioning, refrigeration,
plumbing, painting, electrical, carpentry, maintenance and repairs. Appropriate
experience in workshop related tasks. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Ability to do stand-by duties. Willingness to assist
in all facilities in the sub district within the workshop set-up. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Be conversant with the requirements of the Machinery and
Occupational Health and Safety Act. Ability to operate industrial machinery and
welding tasks. Ability to communicate (written and verbal) Ability to handle
heavy equipment, heights and narrow spaces.
DUTIES : Assist with the execution of engineering/projects/repairs and internal
maintenance in regard of plumbing, carpentry, electrical, glazing and building
works. Maintain, repair and cleaning of drains on a regular basis Maintain and
repair general kitchen and laundry equipment. Strict adherence to the
Occupational health and Safety Act. Assist Artisans in the performance of their
duties. Control over tools, equipment and material.
264
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Owen Tel No: (023) 316-9600
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be required to do a practical test as part of the interview
process. “The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within Ceres
Hospital, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/407 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT (X2 POSTS)
West Coast District
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Bergriver Sub-district and Radie Kotze Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 or equivalent. Experience:
Appropriate experience in facility management, welding, painting, carpentry,
and plumbing with general electrical knowledge. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to assist within the sub-
district as needed. Willingness to work overtime and to perform standby duties,
including weekends and public holidays. Physically fit to handle heavy
equipment and objects. Must be able to work on heights i.e. on ladders and
scaffolding. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of and apply the
requirements of the Machinery and Occupational Health and Safety Act, as
well as read, write and follow written instructions, including manuals and written
procedures. Ability to optimally utilise allocated resources such as tools and
materials and be skilled in the usage of a variety of tools. Ability to work
independently and as part of a team. Ability to adhere to safety standards.
Ability to use a conventional lathe or milling machine.
DUTIES : Provide an effective and efficient maintenance and technical support service
to the institutions. Maintenance of installations, machinery, equipment as well
as the workshop and garden tools. Render a support function in the workshop
as well as standby duties. Maintain professional growth / ethical and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Julius Tel No: (022) 913-1337
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/408 : FOOD SERVICES SUPERVISOR
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in a large scale
industrial, Food Service Unit. Inherent requirements of the job: Ability and
willingness to work shifts, which include weekends/public holidays and
overtime when needed. Physically able to lift heavy objects and be on your feet
for long periods of time. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of
production and cooking methods for normal and therapeutic diets in an
Industrial Foodservice Unit on a large scale. Knowledge of hygiene,
occupational health, HACCP and safety principles. Sound organising skills.
Inter-personal skills in relations with all categories of staff in the execution of
his/her supervisory functions. Computer literacy in MS Office, writing skills and
the ability to work under pressure (Computer literacy to be mentioned in CV or
proof attached).
DUTIES : Order, receipt, storage and issue all food provisions and stock in the
foodservice unit. Supervise food pre-preparation and production of all full and
therapeutic diets. Supervise the weighing, dishing and distribution of food to
various wards. Supervise hygiene, use and maintenance of equipment and
occupational health and safety. Supervise adherence to prescripts, elementary
control measures and standard operational procedures. Supervise human
resources, financial resources and do stock control. Process food statistics and
keep records.
265
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Potgieter Tel No: (021) 940-4575
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/409 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL: VARIOUS
COMPONENTS) (X5 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : False Bay Hospital, Southern/Western Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registrations with
the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with a professional council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant.
Experience: Grade 1: None Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years of
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years of
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to
work overtime when necessary. Will be required to work shifts, night duty,
weekends, and public holidays. Must be prepared to assist in all departments
according to operational needs. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Knowledge
of nursing care and procedures, nursing statutes, and other relevant legal
frameworks. Must have good communication skills. Good Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Provide quality basic nursing care. Provide elementary clinical nursing care.
Practice nursing in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to
nursing. Assist Patients with activities of daily living, which includes, nutritional
status, mobility and elimination needs. Maintaining professional growth, ethical
standards and self-development. Record keeping Utilise human, material and
physical resources efficiently and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Tyutu Tel No: (021) 832 5206
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of applications for registration to register with the relevant council
and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council
are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registrations status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for other vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job
title, core function, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical
and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/410 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (FIRST STAGE LABOUR AND POST
NATAL WARDS) (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Mowbray Maternity Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a professional council:
266
Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirements of
the job: Willingness to work shifts, public holidays, after hours, night duty and
weekends when required. Willingness to work overtime when needed.
Willingness to rotate to other wards when required. Experience: Grade 1:
None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable nursing
experience after registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 3:
A minimum of 20’ years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge and insight into protocols and policies
pertaining to nursing practices in a hospital setting. Knowledge of Infection
Prevention Control standards.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living. To observe patients’ behaviour and
actions in wards and in seclusion and provide elementary clinical nursing care.
Maintain documentation and communication. Effective utilization of resources.
Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-development. Actively
participating in in-service training interventions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Hammond-Rudimuldu Tel No: (021) 659-4908
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals
who must apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/411 : TRADESMAN AID (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate experience in tasks performed in an engineering environment.
Inherent requirements of the job: Ability to work standby duties, overtime,
weekends and public holidays when operationally required. The incumbent
must be able to handle heavy objects, heights, narrow spaces and be on their
feet the entire day. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work
independently as well as part of a team. Good interpersonal, communication
and organisational skills.
DUTIES : Perform various basic maintenance duties in the workshop, on the grounds and
clear areas where work has been carried out. Assist with repairs and
emergency breakdowns (including after-hour repairs). Control, manage and
safekeeping of tools, stock and equipment in the workshop and carrying,
loading and off-loading of tools as well as material. Identify maintenance and
repair needs and ensure that tools and material are available when needed
and cleaned after use. Provide a support service to the technical staff.
Collection, movement and delivery of equipment and furniture. Clean workshop
and drains. Provide Support Service to technical Staff. Provide a clean hygiene
and safe working environment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Frasenburg Tel No: (021) 938-4237
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be expected to undergo a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/412 : OPERATOR: TUBE FEED (INFANT MILK KITCHEN) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
267
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training certificate
(GETC) /Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in a hospital milk
kitchen service. Inherent requirements of the job: Physically able to perform
physical tasks such as lifting, packing, and pushing heavy trolleys. Willingness
to work overtime on public holiday and weekends. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to read and write. Basic numerical skills with an
ability to adapt feed recipes. Good communication skills (verbal and written).
Basic knowledge of infant feed products. Knowledge of milk kitchen hygiene
practices. Basic knowledge of store keeping and stock management.
Knowledge of pasteurisation of human breast milk.
DUTIES : Production and distribution of infant formula. Processing of human milk
including pasteurisation. Maintain optimal hygiene standards in the milk kitchen
and store area. Basic stock taking and stock control. Perform basic
administrative tasks as required within the department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Du Toit Tel No: (021) 404-4471
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/413 : TRADESMAN AID (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital, Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 or equivalent certificate.
Experience: Appropriate maintenance and repairs. Inherent requirements of
the job: Code 8/ EB driver’s license. Physically fit to do manual labour.
Willingness to work after hours and overtime. Hand sanding, varnishing and
stripping skills. Knowledge of the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Knowledge of maintenance tools,
machinery and equipment. Good interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Delivery, collection and transportation of items and equipment and other
facilities. Assist with day-to-day repairs, installations, alterations and daily
maintenance checks including emergency work. Assist with refurbishment and
restoration of furniture. Cleaning of workshops, plant rooms, control tools,
materials and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Z Mtshatsheni Tel No: (021) 360-4635
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/414 : CHILD MINDER
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Numeracy and literacy and Child Care
Certificate. Experience: Appropriate experience. Inherent requirements of the
job: Willingness to work shift and/or rotation basis. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal, supervisory skills, ability to work
independently and within a team. Ability to perform child minding activities,
Educare teaching and training skills. Ability to multitask and take overall
responsibility for each child. Good communication skills (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Provide quality childcare to children at the GSH Childcare Centre. Create a
safe, stimulated and happy environment for the children. Supervise the children
between the ages 0 to 5 years. Provide effective communication within and
outside the institution. Report incidents or abnormalities to the relevant
manager, parent or guardian. Provide ad hoc classroom cover if and when
required. Maintain a clean and healthy environment to prevent infections.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Stevens Tel No: (021) 404-6194
268
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/415 : FOOD SERVICES AID
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Prince Albert Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in preparing patient meals in hospitals environment.
Inherent requirements of the job: Physically strong to lift heavy objects and be
on their feet the entire day. Willingness to work shifts, weekends, overtime and
public holidays. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills.
Self- disciplined, motivated, sober habits, willingness to develop skills and
undergo training. Ability to read, write and interpret recipes to prepare meals
to be served and be able to use an electronic kitchen scale. Appropriate
knowledge of basic cleaning and maintenance of equipment used in the Food
Service Unit.
DUTIES : Provision of food services, including pre-preparation & preparation of normal
and special diets as well as dishing up and distribution of the meals. Assist with
the receiving and storage of perishables and groceries. Implement and control
hygienic environment according to occupational health and safety prescripts
including infection control. Assist with the maintenance of appliances and
equipment. Assist with the informal in-service training of new employees in the
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Martins Tel No: (023) 814 - 2994
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/ oral assessment. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Central Karoo District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/416 : PORTER
West Coast District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Swartland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic literacy and numeracy skills.
Experience: Appropriate porter experience in a Public Health facility/hospital.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts and over weekends.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to achieve and maintain good
interpersonal relations with staff and the service providers. Knowledge of the
Occupational Health and Safety Act. Ability to perform tasks such as lifting of
patients/corpse from/onto beds, trolleys, wheelchairs and to mortuary.
DUTIES : Accompany walking patients and safely transport sitting non-walking patients
per wheelchair/bed trolley to and from different departments/wards. Render
assistance to nursing/medical staff with the transfer of patients to
beds/wheelchairs and vice versa. Assist with shifting of medical equipment to
and from rooms. Report any defects of trolleys or wheelchairs to supervisor.
Respond to requests from wards and departments. Ensure a safe and hygienic
work environment as well as collecting and cleaning equipment. Safe transport
and storing corpses in mortuary.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Timotheus Tel No: (022) 487-9206
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
269
POST 45/417 : PORTER
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Beaufort West Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic numeracy and literacy skills.
Experience: Appropriate porter experience in a public health facility. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, including nightshift,
weekends, overtime and public holidays. The ability to perform tasks such as
lifting patient’s from/onto beds, trolleys and wheelchairs. Willingness to cover
shifts in absence of colleagues and to work in all departments /wards in the
hospital. Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Basic knowledge of Infection
Prevention Control procedure. Good interpersonal and communication skills.
Willingness to work in a team. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Transport of patients. Deliver specimens to laboratories and ensure a safe and
hygienic work environment. Accompany walking patients and transport
sitting/non-walking patients per trolley or wheelchair between wards and
treatment areas. Safe transport of patients on trolleys and wheelchairs to and
from different departments/wards and assist with loading of patients in/out of
ambulances/vehicles. Carry medical and other documentation (patient files,
reports, etc) to wards/treatment and other admin areas. Responsible for the
cleanliness of trolleys, wheelchairs, and working areas and report any defects
to trolleys/wheelchairs to the supervisor and reply to requests from wards.
Render support services to clinical staff, supervisor and colleagues.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M De Koker Tel No: (023) 414-8200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Central Karoo District, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/418 : FOOD SERVICES AID
West Coast District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Swartland Hospital, Swartland Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic numeracy and literacy skills.
Experience: Appropriate experience in line with the Duties (key result
areas/outputs). Appropriate experience in food services in a hospital
environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts,
public holidays, weekends and overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of production for normal and therapeutic diets in a foodservice unit.
Knowledge of HACCP and safety principles. Ability to do work of a physical
nature which includes lifting heavy objects and be on their feet the entire day.
DUTIES : Pre-preparation, cooking, plating, distributing and serving of meals and
beverages for the patients in accordance with the PGWC Food Service Policy.
Follow standardized PGWC Recipes and Menus. Assist in receipt and storage
of all provisions in the foodservice unit. Clean and maintain the kitchen area
and maintain equipment and adhere to health and safety regulations.
Communicate with role-players and food service staff and give feedback
regarding problems and recommendations to the Foodservice
supervisor/manager. Render support to supervisor. Dress according to
Departmental specifications and adhere to Hospital PGWC policy.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A van Breda Tel No: (022) 487-9223
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
270
POST 45/419 : GENERAL WORKER STORES (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience: Appropriate
experience in a warehouse environment. Inherent requirements of the job:
Ability to do physical tasks and operate heavy-duty warehouse machinery. Be
able to lift heavy equipment and supplies and work with cleaning materials.
Competencies (knowledge/ skills): The ability to issue stock, incoming and
outgoing buyouts/stock according to AOS (Accounting Officer System), as well
as safely and correctly handle Warehouse equipment. Basic numerical skills.
Good physical health.
DUTIES : Assist with general tasks in the Stores area. Deliver stock and Buy-outs to
different departments. Clean the Transito area and delivery area in courtyard.
Assist the asset management department. Support to supervisor by adhering
to the Code of Conduct.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Joubert Tel No: (023) 348-1174
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for vacancies within Worcester Regional Hospital for a period of 3
months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/420 : GENERAL WORKER STORES
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate knowledge and appropriate experience in a Warehouse
Management environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Physical ability to
pick up and move heavy boxes or bags. Physical ability to pull heavy pallets
containing stock to the various Wards using a pallet jack. Willingness to assist
with stock-taking. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and
communication skills. Ability to work in a team.
DUTIES : Pick and deliver issued stock timeously to wards, clinics, theatres and
departments in a cost-effective and safe manner. Maintain the audit trail of
deliveries. Assist with the receiving, issuing, and the storage of stock. Clean
stores on a regular basis. Assist with stock taking. Any ad-hoc duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Campher Tel No: (021) 938-5546/ Mr B Scholtz Tel No: (021) 938-4631
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/421 : HOUSEHOLD AID (X2 POSTS)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Southern Cape TB Centre (Harry Comay Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience: Appropriate
experience in a household/cleaning environment in a health facility. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, including night shift,
weekends, overtime, public holidays. The ability to do physical tasks and
operate heavy duty cleaning and household equipment. Willingness to rotate
in wards according to the needs of the service. Competencies (knowledge/
skills): Basic knowledge of cleaning of equipment. Support to housekeeping
supervisor and adhere to policies and cleaning practices. Appropriate
knowledge of stock, assets, linen and equipment control.
DUTIES : Deliver an effective cleaning service such as dusting, washing, scrubbing,
polishing, washing and refuse removal. Adhere to safety measures and ensure
adherence to Occupational Health and Safety policies and Infection Prevention
Control measures. Render assistance to the supervisor with general
271
housekeeping duties such as control of cleaning and household equipment,
care and control of linen and serving of meals to patients.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Lewis-Peters Tel No: (044) 814-1117
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a competency test. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/422 : HOUSEHOLD AID
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Robertson Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate household aid and cleaning experience in a health facility or
similar. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work weekends,
overtime, public holidays, night duty. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic
knowledge of cleaning and the use of cleaning of equipment.
DUTIES : Maintenance, general neatness and hygiene of the ward kitchens and
surroundings on a daily basis. Adherence to OHS and IPC policies. Render
assistance to the supervisor with regards to general housekeeping duties such
as control of cleaning and household equipment and upkeep of linen.
Responsible to help with handling of clean and soiled linen on ward level
according to IPC policies and ward systems. Perform ward food service duties
according to HACCP principles and food service unit policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Volschenk Tel No: (023) 626-8565
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short-listed
candidates may be expected to complete a practical test. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within (Robertson Hospital), for a
period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/423 : SESSIONAL DENTAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (ORTHODONTICS)
(ORAL/DENTAL TRAINING)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(16 Hours Per Week)
(3 Year Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R646 per hour
Grade 2: R737 per hour
Grade 3: R853 per hour
CENTRE : Oral Health Centres, Tygerberg/Mitchell’s Plain Platform
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Dental Specialist in Orthodontics. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Dental Specialist in Orthodontics. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Dental Specialist in
Orthodontics. Grade 2: Minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Dental
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or recognized foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of a qualified foreign employee) as a Dental
Specialist in Orthodontics. Grade 3: Minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as Dental Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a
recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified
employee) as a Dental Specialist in Orthodontics. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid Driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Screening of patients on arrival. Record patients details. Identify problems to
provide diagnosis. Orthodontic treatment of patients at Oral Health Centre,
Tygerberg/Mitchells Plain. Treatment of cleft lip/palate and syndrome patients
272
at Red Cross Hospital (Dental Clinic). Restore function and aesthetics. Record
keeping. Responsible for compiling stats.
ENQUIRIES : Dr D Joubert Tel No: (021) 937 3172
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. “Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/424 : SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (MEDICINE:
NEUROLOGY)
(12 Hours)
(Contract until 31 March 2026)
SALARY : Grade 1: R646 per hour
Grade 2: R737 per hour
Grade 3: R853 per hour
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Neurology. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Neurology. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in
Neurology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist in Neurology after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee)
as a Medical Specialist in Neurology. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist in Neurology after registration
with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect
of foreign qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in Neurology.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent interpersonal, communication,
teaching and mentoring skills. Excellent knowledge and skills in clinical
neurophysiology (NCS, EMG, EEG, long-term video EEG). Excellent
knowledge and skills in clinical neurology.
DUTIES : Patient clinical assessment and management, supervision of neurology
registrars and neurotechnologist in neurophysiology clinics, as well as
oversight of these clinics. Reading electroencephalograms and instructing
registrars in the interpretation of electroencephalograms. Participation in
epilepsy surgery evaluation clinics. Patient assessment and registrar
supervision at general neurology outpatient clinics.
ENQUIRIES : Prof L Tucker Tel No: (021) 404-3197
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Please ensure
that you attach an updated CV. The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of three months from the
date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
273
registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including)
individuals who must apply for change in registration status.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/425 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (X10 POSTS)
Garden Route District
(20 Sessions P/Week)
(Contract Until 31 March 2027)
SALARY : Grade 1: R482 per hour
Grade 2: R550 per hour
Grade 3: R636 per hour
CENTRE : (Various Institutions) (George Sub-district; Mossel Bay Sub-district;
Oudtshoorn Sub-district, NHI Project, (Garden Route District)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of who is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
medical practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years relevant experience after registration as a medical practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of who is not required to perform Community Service as required
in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a
Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a medical practitioner
in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant
experience after registration as a medical practitioner with a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of who
is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB).
Willingness to travel throughout the Garden Route and Central Karoo Districts.
Competencies (knowledge/ skills): Knowledge of general medical and surgical
conditions on hospital and PHC level. Knowledge applicable to South African
TB and HIV care guidelines and including paediatrics HIV and Drug-resistant
TB. Comprehensive evidence-based, direct patient-centred Clinical Service
Provision in the District Health Services. Computer literacy (MS Excel, Word,
Outlook etc.). Good interpersonal, organizational and teamwork skills. Primary
healthcare experience. Ability and willingness to do outreach services to clinics
throughout the Garden Route and Central Karoo Districts, guiding health care
colleagues in managing difficult PHC cases.
DUTIES : Provide quality outpatient care to patients in the Garden Route and Central
Karoo Districts Primary Healthcare and Hospital facilities. Provide an Outreach
and Support service to PHC facilities in the Garden Route and Central Karoo
Districts. Actively participate in skills transfer, training, and academic
opportunities relevant to the post. Active involvement in the clinical governance
of Garden Route and Central Karoo Districts facilities as required. Provide an
efficient administration service regarding all clinical and non-clinical matters
and medico-legal work. Ensure a cost-efficient service at clinical level with
regards to laboratory services, blood, medicine, consumables and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Pienaar Tel No: (044) 803-2703
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three
274
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
POST 45/426 : DENTAL ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 2 (SESSIONAL) (X3 POSTS)
Garden Route District
(1-Year Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R143 per hour
Grade 2: R167 per hour
CENTRE : (Various Institutions) (NHI Project Garden Route District)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification or prescribed in-
service training (with duration of less than 2 years) that allows for the required
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Dental Assistant. Registration with the professional council: Registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Dental Assistant.
Experience: Grade 1: None after obtaining an appropriate qualification or
prescribed in-service training that allows for the required registration with the
HPCSA as Dental Assistant. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience after obtaining an appropriate qualification or prescribed in-service
training that allows for the required registration with the HPCSA as Dental
Assistant. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB).
Willingness to travel between PHC facilities and Hospital. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Adhere to all departmental requirements and protocols.
Sound verbal and written communication skills. Good computer skills (MS
Word, Excel and PowerPoint) Appropriate inoculation. Knowledge of patient
preparations and dental instruments. Knowledge of the National Oral Health
Policy, National Norms, Standards and Practice. Guidelines for Primary Oral
Health Care, Occupational Health & Safety Act.
DUTIES : Assisting Clinician, maintaining hygienic environment and maintaining infection
control. Planning and packing for outside clinics, marathon sessions and
outreach sessions. Clinical patient care. Stock control, stocking surgery and
maintenance of equipment. Maintain appropriate database of work done.
Waste management and practical patient flow management. Responsible for
own continuous Professional Development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Pienaar Tel No: (044) 803 - 2703
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be required to do a competency test as part of the interview
process. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status). The
pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within Garden Route
District, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 09 January 2026
DEPARTMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
CLOSING DATE : 26 January 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews
on a date and time as determined by the department. The selection process
will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Should you
experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note that technical
support (challenges with online application) is only available from Monday to
Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries
person as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your
275
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/427 : PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER (PRODUCTION LEVEL): ROAD
PROGRAMME COORDINATION REF NO: DOI 152/2024 R1
SALARY : Grade A: R879 342 - R938 061 per annum
Grade B: R990 669 -R1 067 235 per annum
Grade C: R1 127 100 - R1 323 267 per annum
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Engineering Degree B Eng/ BSC (Eng)) or relevant qualification; A minimum
of 3 years post qualification engineering experience required; Compulsory
registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineer or have submitted with
ECSA for professional registration as a Professional Engineer; A valid code B
or higher driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Programme and project management; Engineering design and analysis
knowledge; Research and development; Computer-aided engineering
applications; Legal compliance; Technical report writing; Creating high
performance culture; Professional judgment; Networking; The following skills:
Decision making; Team leadership; Analytical skills; Creativity; Self-
management; Financial management; Customer focus and responsiveness;
Written and verbal communication skills; Computer literacy; Planning and
organising; Conflict management; Problem solving and analysis; People
management; Change management; Innovation.
DUTIES : Design new systems to solve practical engineering challenges and improve
efficiency and enhance safety; Human capital development; Office
administration and budget planning; Research and development; Experience
in the following will be advantageous: Transport infrastructure, road
construction and/or maintenance or the asset management processes of
transport infrastructure; Various design stages for multidisciplinary Roads
projects; Compiling/preparing tender document and the tender process;
Supervising technical staff /teams; Data monitoring and analytics of projects in
the various phases; Exposure of financial, human resource, supply chain-
,contract, management and scope monitoring during construction; Project
management and report writing; Willingness to travel when required; Further
studies or courses
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Dlamini at 061 033 1978
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 45/428 : CHIEF ENGINEER: ROAD USE MANAGEMENT REF NO: DOI 174/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R1 266 450 per annum, all-inclusive salary package, (OSD as
prescribed).
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Civil Engineering Degree [B Eng/BSc (Eng)] or relevant
qualification; Six years post qualification engineering experience required;
Compulsory registration with ECSA as a professional engineer; A valid code B
driving license. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Traffic analysis and
assessment of traffic studies and proposals; Transport planning legislation and
environment to include: National Land Transport Act (Act 5 of 2009); Spatial
Planning and Land Use Management Act (Act 16 of 2013); Road Access
Management Guideline and Arterial Management principles. Skills needed:
Manage and Preparation of written proposals and submissions; Written and
verbal communication; Analytical; Evidence-based decision making; Self-
management to include planning and organizing of self, sub-ordinates and
projects; Customer focus and responsiveness; Conflict management; Problem
analysis and solution development; Proven computer literacy (MS Office);
People management; Change management; Willingness to travel on a regular
basis; and Ability to work under pressure.
276
DUTIES : Development and maintenance of road use management strategies;
Management of the impact of spatial planning on the declared road network;
Evaluation of development proposals affecting the road network; Development
of Arterial Management Plans; and Liaison with various stakeholders in the
transport infrastructure planning environment; Manage and ensure that a
thorough evaluation of planning and design by others is done according to
sound engineering principles and according to norms and standards and codes
of practice; Approve engineering works according to prescribed norms and
standards; Human capital development: Ensure training and development of
production engineers, technicians, technologists and candidate engineers to
promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound engineering
principles and codes of practice; Manage and Supervise the engineering work
and processes; Administer performance management and development;
Office administration and budget planning: Manage resources and prepare and
consolidate inputs for the facilitation of resource utilisation; Ensure adherence
to regulations and procedures for procurement and personnel administration;
Monitor and control expenditure; Report on expenditure and service delivery;
Research and development: Continuous professional development to keep up
with new technologies and procedures; Research/literature studies on
engineering technology to improve expertise; Liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Carl.October@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 45/429 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGIST: TRAFFIC ENGINEERING
SUPPORT AND SAFETY REF NO: DOI 175/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R921 900 per annum, all-inclusive salary package, (OSD as
prescribed).
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Technology in Civil Engineering (B Tech) or relevant qualification;
A minimum of six years post qualification Engineering Technologist experience
required; Compulsory registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineering
Technologist; A valid code B driving license. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Project Management, Technical design and traffic analysis;
Research and Development; Computer-aided engineering applications;
Knowledge of legal compliance; Technical report writing; Technical consulting;
Networking; Professional judgment; Process knowledge and skills;
Maintenance skills and knowledge; Mobile equipment operating skills;
Engineering design and analysis knowledge; Research and development;
Computer-aided engineering applications; Creating high performance culture;
Technical consulting; Communication (written and verbal) skills; People
Management, Planning and organizing; Engineering and professional
judgment; Strategic capability and leadership; Behavioural competencies:
Problem solving and analysis; Decision making; Team leadership; Creativity;
Financial management; Customer focus and responsiveness; Conflict
management, negotiation and Change Management skills.
DUTIES : Engineering design and analysis effectiveness: Perform final review and
approvals or audits on new engineering designs according to design principles
or theory; Maintain engineering operational effectiveness: Manage the
execution of maintenance strategy through the provision of appropriate
structures, systems and resources; Governance: Allocate, control, monitor and
report on all resources; Financial Management: Ensure the availability and
management of funds to meet the MTEF objectives within the engineering
environment/services; People management: Manage the development,
motivation and utilization of human resources for the discipline to ensure
competent knowledge base for the continued success of engineering services
according to organizational needs and requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Chow Tel No: (021) 483 2104
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
277
POST 45/430 : AREA FOREMAN: ROUTINE MAINTENANCE REGION 1 (LANGEBERG)
REF NO: DOI 155/2025
SALARY : R269 499 - R317 463 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification); A minimum of 3 years
relevant experience; A valid Code B driving licence (or higher) with a valid
Professional Driving Permit (PDP). Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Maintenance and repair of defects on roads and within road reserves according
to the work methods; Operating of construction related machines; Supervision
over a team of workers; Daily planning, organizing and coordinating of civil
construction work and/or the maintenance thereof; Relevant further training.
Skills needed: Proven computer literacy; Written and verbal communication;
Report writing skills; Maintain good interpersonal relations; Ability to work
under pressure; Good planning and problem-solving; Good time management.
DUTIES : Management of various Road Worker related Teams; Leading the execution of
road construction/road maintenance operations; Assist in the undertaking of
operational planning for the Proclaimed; Road Network; Manage, plan and
Inspect road maintenance activities; Qualify and quantify material quantities for
road maintenance activities; Define road defects during daily/weekly
inspections and undertake corrective measures; Perform all administrative
support functions pertaining to the Road; Worker related Teams; Safeguard
work areas in terms of the Occupational Health and Safety Act; Handle
emergency situations; Ensure that deadlines are met; train Supervisor and
Subordinates in work methods.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Koopman Tel No: (021) 863 2020
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 45/431 : OPERATOR: CONSTRUCTION AND SPECIALISED MAINTENANCE
REGION 1 (CALEDON) REF NO: DOI 150/2025
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 certificate or equivalent; A minimum of 3 years experience operating
various Construction machinery on road construction and maintenance; A valid
code EC driving license with a valid Professional Driving Permit (PDP).
Competencies: Proven knowledge of the following: Construction and
Specialised Maintenance Machinery, i.e.: Excavator, Digger Loader, Tipper
Truck, Mechanical Broom, Sit-on Tandem Roller, Water Truck, Frontend
Loader, Line Marking Machine; Construction, maintenance and repair of roads;
Verbal and written communication skills; Ability to work under pressure and
meet deadlines; Reliable; Able to work in a Team.
DUTIES : Operate various types of Construction Machinery; Support road specialists in
the construction, maintenance and repair of roads; Perform manual labour;
Undertake general duties to support road specialists with the construction,
maintenance and repair and cleaning of roads which may include maintenance
or improvement of road surfaces, road reserves, road signs and road markings,
waterways and structures and related activities; Supervision and utilization of
labourers to ensure effective management of subordinates; Perform generic
administrative functions pertaining to the post.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Koopman Tel No: (021) 863 2020
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 45/432 : OPERATOR: CONSTRUCTION AND SPECIALISED MAINTENANCE
REGION 1 (HOPEFIELD) REF NO: DOI 151/2025
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 certificate or equivalent; A minimum of 3 years’ experience operating
various Construction machinery on road construction and maintenance; A valid
code EC driving license with a valid Professional Driving Permit (PDP).
Competencies: Proven knowledge of the following: Construction and
Specialised Maintenance Machinery, i.e.: Excavator, Digger Loader, Tipper
278
Truck, Mechanical Broom, Sit-on Tandem Roller, Water Truck, Frontend
Loader, Line Marking Machine; Construction, maintenance and repair of roads;
Verbal and written communication skills; Ability to work under pressure and
meet deadlines; Reliable; Able to work in a Team.
DUTIES : Operate various types of Construction Machinery; Support road specialists in
the construction, maintenance and repair of roads; Perform manual labour;
Undertake general duties to support road specialists with the construction,
maintenance and repair and cleaning of roads which may include maintenance
or improvement of road surfaces, road reserves, road signs and road markings,
waterways and structures and related activities; Supervision and utilization of
labourers to ensure effective management of subordinates; Perform generic
administrative functions pertaining to the post.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Koopman Tel No: (021) 863 2020
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 45/433 : OPERATOR: CONSTRUCTION AND SPECIALISED MAINTENANCE
REGION 1 (WORCESTER) REF NO: DOI 152/2025
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 certificate or equivalent; A minimum of 3 years’ experience operating
various Construction machinery on road construction and maintenance; A valid
code EC driving license with a valid Professional Driving Permit (PDP).
Competencies: Proven knowledge of the following: Construction and
Specialised Maintenance Machinery, i.e.: Excavator, Digger Loader, Tipper
Truck, Mechanical Broom, Sit-on Tandem Roller, Water Truck, Frontend
Loader, Line Marking Machine; Construction, maintenance and repair of roads;
Verbal and written communication skills; Ability to work under pressure and
meet deadlines; Reliable; Able to work in a Team.
DUTIES : Operate various types of Construction Machinery; Support road specialists in
the construction, maintenance and repair of roads; Perform manual labour;
Undertake general duties to support road specialists with the construction,
maintenance and repair and cleaning of roads which may include maintenance
or improvement of road surfaces, road reserves, road signs and road markings,
waterways and structures and related activities; Supervision and utilization of
labourers to ensure effective management of subordinates; Perform generic
administrative functions pertaining to the post.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Koopman Tel No: (021) 863 2020
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 45/434 : OPERATOR: CONSTRUCTION AND SPECIALISED MAINTENANCE
REGION 1 (CLANWILLIAM) REF NO: DOI 156/2025
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 certificate or equivalent; A minimum of 3 years’ experience operating
various Construction machinery on road construction and maintenance; A valid
code EC driving license with a valid Professional Driving Permit (PDP).
Competencies: Proven knowledge of the following: Construction and
Specialised Maintenance Machinery, i.e.: Excavator, Digger Loader, Tipper
Truck, Mechanical Broom, Sit-on Tandem Roller, Water Truck, Frontend
Loader, Line Marking Machine; Construction, maintenance and repair of roads;
Verbal and written communication skills; Ability to work under pressure and
meet deadlines; Reliable; Able to work in a Team.
DUTIES : Operate various types of Construction Machinery; Support road specialists in
the construction, maintenance and repair of roads; Perform manual labour;
Undertake general duties to support road specialists with the construction,
maintenance and repair and cleaning of roads which may include maintenance
or improvement of road surfaces, road reserves, road signs and road markings,
waterways and structures and related activities; Supervision and utilization of
labourers to ensure effective management of subordinates; Perform generic
administrative functions pertaining to the post.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Koopman Tel No: (021) 863 2020
279
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 45/435 : OPERATOR: CONSTRUCTION AND SPECIALISED MAINTENANCE
REGION 1 (PAARL - REGRAVEL) REF NO: DOI 158/2025
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 certificate or equivalent; A minimum of 3 years’ experience operating
various Construction machinery on road construction and maintenance; A valid
code EC driving license with a valid Professional Driving Permit (PDP).
Competencies: Proven knowledge of the following: Construction and
Specialised Maintenance Machinery, i.e.: Excavator, Digger Loader, Tipper
Truck, Mechanical Broom, Sit-on Tandem Roller, Water Truck, Frontend
Loader, Line Marking Machine; Construction, maintenance and repair of roads;
Verbal and written communication skills; Ability to work under pressure and
meet deadlines; Reliable; Able to work in a Team.
DUTIES : Operate various types of Construction Machinery; Support road specialists in
the construction, maintenance and repair of roads; Perform manual labour;
Undertake general duties to support road specialists with the construction,
maintenance and repair and cleaning of roads which may include maintenance
or improvement of road surfaces, road reserves, road signs and road markings,
waterways and structures and related activities; Supervision and utilization of
labourers to ensure effective management of subordinates; Perform generic
administrative functions pertaining to the post.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Koopman Tel No: (021) 863 2020
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 45/436 : ROAD WORKER SUPERVISOR: CONSTRUCTION AND SPECIALISED
MAINTENANCE REF NO: DOI 164/2025 (X2 POSTS AVAILABLE IN
BELLVILLE)
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (equivalent or higher qualification); A minimum of 3 years semi-
skilled manual experience; A valid (Code EC) driving licence with professional
drivers permit (PDP). Competencies: Good understanding of the maintenance
and repair of defects on roads and within road reserves; Conflict and diversity
management; Skills needed: Communication (verbal and written); Ability to
work under pressure and meet deadlines; Ability to work in a team; Self-
motivated.
DUTIES : Manage and supervise a team; Plan, supervise and undertake road
maintenance activities; Determine material quantities for road maintenance
activities; Define Road defects and undertake corrective measures; Safeguard
work areas in terms of the Occupational Health and Safety Act; Train
subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Cronje Tel No: (021) 863 2020
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 45/437 : ROAD WORKER SUPERVISOR: CONSTRUCTION AND SPECIALISED
MAINTENANCE (HOPEFIELD) REF NO: DOI 165/2025
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (equivalent or higher qualification); A minimum of 3 years semi-
skilled manual experience; A valid (Code EC) driving licence with professional
drivers permit (PDP). Competencies: Good understanding of the maintenance
and repair of defects on roads and within road reserves; Conflict and diversity
management; Skills needed: Communication (verbal and written); Ability to
work under pressure and meet deadlines; Ability to work in a team; Self-
motivated.
280
DUTIES : Manage and supervise a team; Plan, supervise and undertake road
maintenance activities; Determine material quantities for road maintenance
activities; Define road defects and undertake corrective measures; Safeguard
work areas in terms of the Occupational Health and Safety Act; Train
subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Cronje Tel No: (021) 863 2020
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 45/438 : ROAD WORKER SUPERVISOR: ROUTINE MAINTENANCE
(CLANWILLIAM) REF NO: DOI 170/2025
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (equivalent or higher qualification); A minimum of 3 years semi-
skilled manual experience; A valid (Code EC) driving licence with professional
drivers permit (PDP).Competencies: Good understanding of the maintenance
and repair of defects on roads and within road reserves; Conflict and diversity
management; Skills needed: Communication (verbal and written); Ability to
work under pressure and meet deadlines; Ability to work in a team; Self-
motivated.
DUTIES : Manage and supervise a team; Plan, supervise and undertake road
maintenance activities; Determine material quantities for road maintenance
activities; Define road defects and undertake corrective measures; Safeguard
work areas in terms of the Occupational Health and Safety Act; Train
subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Koopman Tel No: (021) 863 2020
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 45/439 : ROAD WORKER SUPERVISOR (SPECIAL LINE MARKING TEAM):
ROUTINE MAINTENANCE (PAARL) REF NO: DOI 171/2025
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (equivalent or higher qualification); A minimum of 3 years semi-
skilled manual experience; A valid (Code EC) driving licence with professional
drivers permit (PDP). Competencies: Good understanding of the following:
Safety precautions whilst operating machinery and equipment; Usage of small
tools and equipment; Operating of Lince Marking Machines, i.e. motorized and
manual as well as general construction related machines Interpretation of basic
civil drawings pertaining to Line Marking and determine quantities of goods and
services; Skills needed: Supervisory; Communication (verbal and written);
Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines; Ability to work in a team;
Self-motivated.
DUTIES : Management of Road Marking Team during construction and maintenance of
the Proclaimed Road Network Operating of various types of machinery and
equipment; Supervision and utilization of labourers to ensure effective
management of subordinates; Perform generic administrative functions
pertaining to the post.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Koopman Tel No: (021) 863 2020
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 45/440 : ROAD WORKER SUPERVISOR: ROUTINE MAINTENANCE
(VANRHYNSDORP) REF NO: DOI 172/2025
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (equivalent or higher qualification); A minimum of 3 years semi-
skilled manual experience; A valid (Code EC) driving licence with professional
drivers permit (PDP). Competencies: Good understanding of the maintenance
and repair of defects on roads and within road reserves; Conflict and diversity
management; Skills needed: Communication (verbal and written); Ability to
281
work under pressure and meet deadlines; Ability to work in a team; Self-
motivated.
DUTIES : Manage and supervise a team; Plan, supervise and undertake road
maintenance activities; Determine material quantities for road maintenance
activities; Define road defects and undertake corrective measures; Safeguard
work areas in terms of the Occupational Health and Safety Act; Train
subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Koopman Tel No: (021) 863 2020
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 45/441 : ROAD WORKER (BELLVILLE) REF NO: DOI 153/2025
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Ability to read and write / Adult Basic Education and Training (ABET 2/Grade
5). Competencies: A good understanding of the following: Building,
maintenance and repair of roads. Skills: Verbal and written communication
skills; Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines; Reliable; Able to work
in a team.
DUTIES : Support road specialists in the construction, maintenance and repair of roads;
Perform manual labor; Undertake general duties to support road specialists
with the construction, maintenance and repair and cleaning of roads which may
include maintenance or improvement of road surfaces, road reserves, road
signs and road markings, waterways and structures and related activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Ntomane Tel No: (021) 863 2020
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful
POST 45/442 : ROAD WORKER (CALEDON) REF NO: DOI 154/2025
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Ability to read and write / Adult Basic Education and Training (ABET 2/Grade
5). Competencies: A good understanding of the following: Building,
maintenance and repair of roads. Skills: Verbal and written communication
skills; Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines; Reliable; Able to work
in a team.
DUTIES : Support road specialists in the construction, maintenance and repair of roads;
Perform manual labour; Undertake general duties to support road specialists
with the construction, maintenance and repair and cleaning of roads which may
include maintenance or improvement of road surfaces, road reserves, road
signs and road markings, waterways and structures and related activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Ntomane Tel No: (021) 863 2020
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
282
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful
POST 45/443 : ROAD WORKER REF NO: DOI 157/2025 (X2 POSTS AVAILABLE IN
CERES)
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Ability to read and write / Adult Basic Education and Training (ABET 2/Grade
5). Competencies: A good understanding of the following: Building,
maintenance and repair of roads. Skills: Verbal and written communication
skills; Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines; Reliable; Able to work
in a team.
DUTIES : Support road specialists in the construction, maintenance and repair of roads;
Perform manual labour; Undertake general duties to support road specialists
with the construction, maintenance and repair and cleaning of roads which may
include maintenance or improvement of road surfaces, road reserves, road
signs and road markings, waterways and structures and related activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Ntomane Tel No: (021) 863 2020
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful
POST 45/444 : ROAD WORKER REF NO: DOI 159/2025 (X5 POSTS AVAILABLE IN
CLANWILLIAM)
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Ability to read and write / Adult Basic Education and Training (ABET 2/Grade
5) Competencies: A good understanding of the following: Building,
maintenance and repair of roads. Skills: Verbal and written communication
skills; Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines; Reliable; Able to work
in a team.
DUTIES : Support road specialists in the construction, maintenance and repair of roads;
Perform manual labour; Undertake general duties to support road specialists
with the construction, maintenance and repair and cleaning of roads which may
include maintenance or improvement of road surfaces, road reserves, road
signs and road markings, waterways and structures and related activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Ntomane Tel No: (021) 863 2020
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
283
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful
POST 45/445 : ROAD WORKER (13 POSTS AVAILABLE IN HOPEFIELD) REF NO: DOI
160/2025
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Ability to read and write / Adult Basic Education and Training (ABET 2/Grade
5). Competencies: A good understanding of the following: Building,
maintenance and repair of roads. Skills: Verbal and written communication
skills; Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines; Reliable; Able to work
in a team.
DUTIES : Support road specialists in the construction, maintenance and repair of roads;
Perform manual labour; Undertake general duties to support road specialists
with the construction, maintenance and repair and cleaning of roads which may
include maintenance or improvement of road surfaces, road reserves, road
signs and road markings, waterways and structures and related activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Ntomane Tel No: (021) 863 2020
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful
POST 45/446 : ROAD WORKER REF NO: DOI 161/2025 (X10 POSTS AVAILABLE IN
ROBERTSON)
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Ability to read and write / Adult Basic Education and Training (ABET 2/Grade
5) Competencies: A good understanding of the following: Building,
maintenance and repair of roads. Skills: Verbal and written communication
skills; Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines; Reliable; Able to work
in a team.
DUTIES : Support road specialists in the construction, maintenance and repair of roads;
Perform manual labour; Undertake general duties to support road specialists
with the construction, maintenance and repair and cleaning of roads which may
include maintenance or improvement of road surfaces, road reserves, road
signs and road markings, waterways and structures and related activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Ntomane Tel No: (021) 863 2020
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful.
284
POST 45/447 : ROAD WORKER REF NO: DOI 162/2025 (X2 POSTS AVAILABLE IN
STANFORD)
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Ability to read and write / Adult Basic Education and Training (ABET 2/Grade
5) Competencies: A good understanding of the following: Building,
maintenance and repair of roads. Skills: Verbal and written communication
skills; Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines; Reliable; Able to work
in a team.
DUTIES : Support road specialists in the construction, maintenance and repair of roads;
Perform manual labour; Undertake general duties to support road specialists
with the construction, maintenance and repair and cleaning of roads which may
include maintenance or improvement of road surfaces, road reserves, road
signs and road markings, waterways and structures and related activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Ntomane Tel No: (021) 863 2020
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful
POST 45/448 : ROAD WORKER REF NO: DOI 163/2025 (X3 POSTS AVAILABLE IN
VANRHYNSDORP)
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Ability to read and write / Adult Basic Education and Training (ABET 2/Grade
5) Competencies: A good understanding of the following: Building,
maintenance and repair of roads. Skills: Verbal and written communication
skills; Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines; Reliable; Able to work
in a team.
DUTIES : Support road specialists in the construction, maintenance and repair of roads;
Perform manual labor; Undertake general duties to support road specialists
with the construction, maintenance and repair and cleaning of roads which may
include maintenance or improvement of road surfaces, road reserves, road
signs and road markings, waterways and structures and related activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Ntomane Tel No: (021) 863 2020
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful
285
POST 45/449 : ROAD WORKER REF NO: DOI 166/2025 (X3 POSTS AVAILABLE IN
KLAWER)
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Ability to read and write / Adult Basic Education and Training (ABET 2/Grade
5) Competencies: A good understanding of the following: Building,
maintenance and repair of roads. Skills: Verbal and written communication
skills; Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines; Reliable; Able to work
in a team.
DUTIES : Support road specialists in the construction, maintenance and repair of roads;
Perform manual labour; Undertake general duties to support road specialists
with the construction, maintenance and repair and cleaning of roads which may
include maintenance or improvement of road surfaces, road reserves, road
signs and road markings, waterways and structures and related activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Ntomane Tel No: (021) 863 2020
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful.
POST 45/450 : ROAD WORKER REF NO: DOI 167/2025 (X2 POSTS AVAILABLE IN
MALMESBURY)
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Ability to read and write / Adult Basic Education and Training (ABET 2/Grade
5) Competencies: A good understanding of the following: Building,
maintenance and repair of roads. Skills: Verbal and written communication
skills; Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines; Reliable; Able to work
in a team.
DUTIES : Support road specialists in the construction, maintenance and repair of roads;
Perform manual labour; Undertake general duties to support road specialists
with the construction, maintenance and repair and cleaning of roads which may
include maintenance or improvement of road surfaces, road reserves, road
signs and road markings, waterways and structures and related activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Ntomane Tel No: (021) 863 2020
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful.
286
POST 45/451 : ROAD WORKER REF NO: DOI 168/2025 (X4 POSTS AVAILABLE
PIKETBERG)
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Ability to read and write / Adult Basic Education and Training (ABET 2/Grade
5) Competencies: A good understanding of the following: Building,
maintenance and repair of roads. Skills: Verbal and written communication
skills; Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines; Reliable; Able to work
in a team.
DUTIES : Support road specialists in the construction, maintenance and repair of roads;
Perform manual labour; Undertake general duties to support road specialists
with the construction, maintenance and repair and cleaning of roads which may
include maintenance or improvement of road surfaces, road reserves, road
signs and road markings, waterways and structures and related activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Ntomane Tel No: (021) 863 2020
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful
POST 45/452 : ROAD WORKER REF NO: DOI 169/2025 (X11 POSTS AVAILABLE
WORCESTER)
SALARY : R163 680 - R192 810 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Ability to read and write / Adult Basic Education and Training (ABET 2/Grade
5) Competencies: A good understanding of the following: Building,
maintenance and repair of roads. Skills: Verbal and written communication
skills; Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines; Reliable; Able to work
in a team.
DUTIES : Support road specialists in the construction, maintenance and repair of roads;
Perform manual labour; Undertake general duties to support road specialists
with the construction, maintenance and repair and cleaning of roads which may
include maintenance or improvement of road surfaces, road reserves, road
signs and road markings, waterways and structures and related activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Ntomane Tel No: (021) 863 2020
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful
287
DEPARTMENT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 26 January 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews
on a date and time as determined by the department. The selection process
will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Should you
experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note that technical
support (challenges with online application) is only available from Monday to
Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries
person as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/453 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: GOOD GOVERNANCE REF NO: LG 41/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in a Legal field / Public Administration; A minimum of 3 years
middle management experience; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence.
NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of
the following: The Constitution and Local Government suite of Legislations-ie.
Municipal Systems Act 32 of 2000, Municipal Structures Act, 1 17 of 1998;
Political Environment; Anti-Corruption Legislative Framework; Code of
Conduct for Councillors as contained in Schedule 7 of the Municipal Structures
Act, 1 17 of 1998; Code for Ethical Leadership in Local Government;
Remuneration of Public Office Bearers Act, 20 of 1998; Human Resource
Management Financial Management. Skills in the following: Computer literacy
in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Communication skills
(written and verbal); Good interpersonal and decision-making skills;
Supervising staff; Planning and Organising; Ability to work independently and
as part of a team; Willingness to work irregular hours.
DUTIES : Initiate and coordinate ethical leadership, anti-fraud and anti-corruption
programmes; Provide support to Municipal Public Accounts Committees
(MPACs) and monitor the functionality of MPACs; Administer Councillor
matters: Application of the Code of Conduct for Councillors and administer
Councillor Remuneration; Render training on Code of Conduct for Councillors,
Code for Ethical Leadership and Preventative Measures against Fraud and
Corruption; Monitor the functionality of Councils, section 79/80 Committees
and MPAC Committees; Provide support to Municipalities in maintaining Good
Governance; Monitor Council Compositions in Municipalities; Strategic
Management; Human Resource Management; Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Makan Tel No: (021) 483 4365
POST 45/454 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PLANNING REF NO:
LG 43/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in Town
Planning / Development Studies / Public Management or related field; Plus
training in integrated development planning (IDP) and/or Municipal Strategic
Management; A minimum of 3 years middle management experience in
Integrated Development Planning / Town Planning / Development studies or
Local Government Planning. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Integrated development planning (IDP) policy, legislation and guiding manuals;
288
Municipal integrated development planning; People-centered development,
community-based participation processes; Strategic management processes,
including strategic planning and performance management within government
- including inter-sphere and cross-sector planning; Constitutional, institutional
and developmental circumstances of municipalities; Project management and
performance management; Public service procedures and regulations; Human
Resource Management; Labour relations legislation; Skills Development Act;
White Paper on Employment Equity; Financial Management regulations. Skills
in the following: Ability to analyse, promote, facilitate and implement strategic
planning; Presentation skills; Implementation and monitoring skills; Project
management skills; Interpretation of legislation; Effective communication
(verbal & written); Dispute resolution, facilitation in groups (within the
community) and conflict management; Problem solving; Basic Accounting;
Basic budgeting skills; Computer skills in report writing; A valid code B driving
license.
DUTIES : Ensure integrated development planning support to municipalities with the
drafting and review of integrated development plans; Assessment of the quality
of municipal integrated development plans; Provide support regarding national
and provincial planning alignment with municipal integrated development
plans; Integrated development planning (IDP) training and capacity building to
municipalities and related stakeholders; Monitor and report on municipal
Integrated development planning (IDP) review progress and implementation;
Plan and manage the work of and account for the overall performance of the
Sub directorate; People Management; Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P.C Jansen van Vuren Tel No: (021) 483 9077
POST 45/455 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PLANNING REF
NO: LG 42/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Town Planning or Development studies or Public Management;
Plus training in IDP and /or Municipal Strategic Management; A minimum of 3
years relevant experience in Integrated Development Planning / Town
Planning / Development studies or Local Government Planning.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Integrated development planning
(IDP) legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and good practices; Municipal
integrated development planning (IDP), people-centered development,
community-based participation processes; Strategic management processes
including strategic planning and performance management within government
including inter-sphere and cross sector planning; Constitutional, institutional
and developmental circumstances of municipalities; Project management and
performance management; Public service procedures and regulations;
Information systems that aid in the management of knowledge and information
pertaining to the line function; Operational management practices;
Procurement and tendering processes. Skills in the following: Ability to analyse,
promote, facilitate and implement strategic planning; Presentation skills;
Implementation and monitoring skills; Project management skills; Interpretation
of legislation; Effective communication (verbal and written); Dispute resolution,
facilitation in groups (within community) and conflict management; Problem
solving; Basic accounting; Basic budgeting skills; Computer skills in report
writing; A valid driving license.
DUTIES : Provide integrated development planning (IDP) support to municipalities with
the drafting and review of integrated development plans; Coordinate municipal
integrated development planning (IDP) support across municipalities including
sector planning support initiatives; Monitor the process and credibility of
municipal integrated development planning; Research and develop integrated
development planning good practices; Promote the institutionalisation of
integrated development planning sector departments; Maintain an integrated
development planning (IDP) document database that is accessible to all three
spheres of government.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Ivan Meyer Tel No: (021) 483 5528
289
POST 45/456 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SPECIALISED SUPPORT (INVESTIGATIONS)
REF NO: LG 44/2025
Contract Position available
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09), plus 37% in lieu of service benefits
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Commerce / Law / Auditing / Forensics or related field; A
minimum of 3 years relevant experience in investigations; A valid code B (or
higher) driving license. NB People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Applicable legislation, prescripts, policies, acts
and procedures; Legislation pertaining to forensic investigations; Research,
analyse and applicable legislation. Skills needed: Proven computer literacy;
Analytical thinking; Interpersonal; Communication (written and verbal); Conflict
management; Project management; Good interviewing skills and ability to take
statements during investigations.
DUTIES : Case/Project planning and execution; Investigate of assigned cases; Case
closure and finalisation; Performance and information management and
reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Louw Tel No: (021) 483 9071
POST 45/457 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RIGHTS REF NO: LG 40/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years administrative experience. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Events and project management; Gender, Youth,
Disability, Elderly, HIV/AIDS, and Children related policies and practices; A
broad understanding of how Gender, Youth, Disability, Elderly, HIV/AIDS, and
Children’s concerns affect Municipalities and communities; Skills in the
following: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
Teams, Outlook and Internet); Financial management; Project management
including monitoring, evaluation and report writing skills; Presentation and
stakeholder management skills; Good communication (written and verbal)
skills; Ability to work independently and as part of a team; Willingness to work
irregular hours and travel as required; It will be an advantageous to have a
valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
DUTIES : Assist in the following: Providing guidance and assistance to municipalities with
the institutionalisation of human rights concerns such as, Gender, Human
Trafficking, Youth, Disability, Elderly, HIV/AIDS and children; Capacitating
municipal focal units through capacity building workshops, awareness raising
sessions and consultations for the advancement and implementation of human
rights concerns, Gender, Youth, Disability, Elderly, and HIV/AIDS children at
municipalities; Maintaining and supporting human rights structures at
municipalities for continued transformation of local Government and attend
workshops, inter-departmental meetings, conferences on HIV/AIDS, Gender,
Youth, Disability, Elderly, and Children; Mainstreaming of Human Rights
concerns such as (Gender, Youth, Disability, Elderly, and HIV/AIDS, children
into the core functions of the department; Support special projects on human
rights concerns such as Gender, Youth, Disability, Elderly, and Children
HIV/AIDS, at municipalities; Maintain a sustainable partnership with civil
society, community-based organisations, NGO's, Municipalities and inter-
departmental forums on Gender, Human Trafficking, Youth, Disability, Elderly,
HIV/AIDS, and Children concerns as applicable to allocated portfolios; Minutes
taking and report writing, all general and financial administrative support,
calendar management and maintaining data bases and filing systems for all
programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Ramnath Tel No: (021) 483 3333
DEPARTMENT OF POLICE OVERSIGHT AND COMMUNITY SAFETY
CLOSING DATE : 26 January 2026
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates must make themselves available to be interviewed at
a date, time and place as decided by the selection panel. Please ensure that
290
you submit your application on or before the closing date as no late applications
will be considered. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Kindly note that technical support is only available
from Monday to Friday from 8:00 to 16.00. Should you experience any
difficulties with your online application you may contact the helpline at 0861
370 214. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that
intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will
be communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive
on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS Competency Assessment tools. The nominated
candidate will be required to complete the Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme before they may be appointed into this post. The purpose of the
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, which is a public service specific
training programme applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is
to ensure that potential SMS members have a background on processes and
procedures linked to the SMS. The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme
is 120 notional hours (15 days). Full details may be sourced by the following
link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-preentryprogramme/
Furthermore, thanks to the huge public interest we receive many applications
for our positions, and as such will not be able to respond personally to all
applications. Therefore, should you not hear from us within 10 weeks from
close of advert please consider your application unsuccessful. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 45/458 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: MANAGEMENT SUPPORT REF NO: POCS 11/2025
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), all–inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of Police Oversight and Community Safety, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree (NQF 7) or higher qualification as recognised by SAQA;
A minimum of 5 years’ experience at a Senior Managerial level; Completion of
the Pre-entry SMS Certificate for entry into the SMS (Senior Management
Service) submitted prior to appointment. Competencies: Proven knowledge of
the following: Relevant legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies, and best
practices related to the line functions of the post; Information systems that
support knowledge and information management; Procurement and tendering
processes; Policy development, strategic planning, and the monitoring,
evaluation, and review of strategies and programmes; Global, regional, and
local political, economic, and social trends that impact the Western Cape
Government; Labour relations legislation, regulations, and best practices;
Performance Management Systems and Frameworks. Core Competencies:
Strategic capability and leadership; People Management and Empowerment;
Programme and Project Management; Financial Management; Change
Management. Skills: Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Language skills;
Project Management; Accounting/ Finance/ Audit; Economic, Financial and
Statistical analysis; Legal Administration; Strategic Planning.
DUTIES : Strategic Management, advice and guidance will entail the following: Render
strategic and communication services; Ensure effective financial management
services; Render of specialised auxiliary services (Transport, Telephones,
Registry & Messenger, Reprographics, Information Resource Centre &
Miscellaneous Services); Provide support in respect of operational
management of the department’s working relationship with the corporate
services centre; Governance and Oversight of Western Cape Liquor Authority
(WCLA); Monitor in-year performance reports (financial and non-financial);
Attend Governing Board, Audit Committee and bi-lateral meetings and
feedback on support or actions implemented.; Ensure the finalisation of the
Annual Transfer Payment Agreement; Facilitate the amendments to the
Western Cape Liquor Act and Regulations as it relates to the implementation
of the AHR White Paper; Facilitate the annual fee increase for license fees and
291
fines of the WCLA as prescribed in the Western Cape Liquor Act. Strategic
Management and Change Management will entail the following: Define and
continuously review the purpose, objectives, priorities and core activities of the
Chief Directorate to ensure strategic alignment and organisational relevance;
Drive the Chief Directorate’s strategy, including the development,
implementation and management of strategic and business plans.; Evaluate
performance on an ongoing basis against predetermined key measurable
objectives, targets and standards, ensuring continuous improvement; Provide
strategic reports and advice on matters of substantial importance to support
executive decision-making; Monitor and ensure compliance with all relevant
legislation, regulations and prescripts, with specific emphasis on proper and
compliant record-keeping; Lead change management initiatives to strengthen
organisational adaptability, operational efficiency and stakeholder
responsiveness; Foster and promote a culture of innovation, encouraging new
approaches, continuous learning and improved service delivery within the
Chief Directorate. People Management will entail the following: Participate in
the recruitment of employees; Lead and manage staff to achieve organisational
objectives; Drive talent development, performance management, and staff
empowerment; Oversee workforce planning, service delivery improvement
programmes and information resource plans, ensuring that organisational
capacity operational efficiency and information management practices
effectively support the strategic objectives of the Chief Directorate. Promote
sound labour relations and oversee the maintenance of discipline within the
chief directorate. Financial Management Oversee budgets, expenditure and
financial planning for the Chief Directorate. Ensure effective financial controls
and compliance with PFMA and Treasury Instructions; Monitor and report on
financial performance and cost-effectiveness of projects; Assume direct
accountability for ensuring contracts are managed effectively and efficiently;
Prepare and oversee Annual and Adjustment Budgets; Assume accountability
for the tender and procurement procedures of the Chief Directorate; Ensure
that all spending is aligned with the strategic objectives of the chief directorate;
Risk Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. H Arendse Tel No: (021) 483 4164
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 45/459 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: SECRETARIAT FOR SAFETY AND SECURITY REF
NO: POCS 12/2025
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), all–inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of Police Oversight and Community Safety, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree (NQF 7) or higher qualification as recognised by SAQA,
A minimum of 5 years’ experience at a Senior Managerial level; Completion of
the Pre-entry SMS Certificate for entry into the SMS (Senior Management
Service) submitted prior to appointment. Competencies: Proven knowledge of
the following: Proven knowledge of and working experience of the following:
Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies, and best practices relevant to the
line functions of the Chief Directorate; Information and Knowledge
Management Systems; Procurement and tendering processes; Policy
development and Strategic Management; Governance and administration;
Broad understanding of global, regional and local political, economic and social
dynamics affecting the Western Cape Government; Labour relations
legislation, regulations, and best practices; Performance Management
Systems and Frameworks. Core Competencies: Strategic capability and
leadership; People Management and Empowerment; Programme and Project
Management; Financial Management; Change Management. Skills:
Numeracy; Computer literacy; Project Management; Accounting/ Finance/
Audit; Economic, Financial and Statistical Analysis; Legal Administration;
Strategic Planning.
DUTIES : Strategic Management, advice and guidance will entail the following: Manages
(develop, implement, evaluate and adjust) programme/ projects that lead to the
achievement of the long-term strategic objectives of the organisation; Initiate,
execute, coordinate and support social crime prevention projects in the
Western Cape; Provide an integrated information and research management
framework / system towards safer communities in the Western Cape; Provide
292
civilian oversight over law enforcement agencies, including a support service
to the WCPP Ombudsman; Build capacity within communities against crime
through increasing levels of consciousness, institutionalising structures for
community participation, empowering community policing and establishing
uniformed partnerships with communities or decrease the levels of crime and
levels of perception of crime. Strategic Management and Change Management
will entail the following: Define and continuously review the purpose,
objectives, priorities and core activities of the Chief Directorate to ensure
strategic alignment and organisational relevance; Drive the Chief Directorate’s
strategy, including the development, planning and management of strategic
and business plans; Evaluate performance on an ongoing basis against
predetermined key measurable objectives, targets and standards, ensuring
continuous improvement; Provide strategic reports and advice on matters of
substantial importance to support executive decision-making; Monitor and
ensure compliance with all relevant legislation, regulations and prescripts, with
specific emphasis on proper and compliant record-keeping; Lead change
management initiatives to strengthen organisational adaptability, operational
efficiency and stakeholder responsiveness; Foster and promote a culture of
innovation, encouraging new approaches, continuous learning and improved
service delivery within the Chief Directorate. People Management will entail the
following: Recruitment and Selection. Employee Development; Performance
Management; Capacity Building; Labour Relations and Discipline
Management; Financial Management; Budget participation and preparation;
Financial reporting, accountability and proper record keeping; Procurement
compliance; Contract Management; Strategic alignment; Asset Management;
Contract Management; Risk Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. H Arendse Tel No: (021) 483 6915
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 45/460 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: SECURITY RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: POCS
13/2025
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), all–inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of Police Oversight and Community Safety, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree (NQF 7) or higher qualification as recognised by SAQA;
A minimum of 5 years’ experience at a Senior Managerial level; Completion of
the Pre-entry SMS Certificate for entry into the SMS (Senior Management
Service) submitted prior to appointment. Competencies: Proven knowledge of
the following: Proven knowledge of and working experience of the following:
Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies, and best practices relevant to the
line functions of the Chief Directorate; Information and Knowledge
Management Systems; Procurement and tendering processes; Policy
development and Strategic Management; Governance and administration;
Broad understanding of global, regional and local political, economic and social
dynamics affecting the Western Cape Government; Labour relations
legislation, regulations, and best practices; Performance Management
Systems and Frameworks. Core Competencies: Strategic capability and
leadership; People Management and Empowerment; Programme and Project
Management; Financial Management; Change Management. Skills:
Numeracy; Computer literacy; Project Management; Accounting/ Finance/
Audit; Economic, Financial and Statistical Analysis; Legal Administration;
Strategic Planning.
DUTIES : Strategic Management, advice and guidance will entail the following: Provide
comprehensive security risk management service to the Western Cape i.r.o
property, assets, equipment, reputation, employees, visitors and guests;
Provide strategic guidance and support to the Heads of provincial institutions
to ensure compliance with applicable safety and security regulations and
policies; Drive strategic direction and actively participate in internal and
external forums to influence departmental leadership on security risk
management; Lead the development and governance of integrated security
programs with a focus on optimizing resource alignment and collaboration
across departments and institutions; Provide security support services; Provide
transversal administrative and support service to security risk management
and Neighbourhood Watch Structures (NHWs); Develop transversal policy
293
documentation and/or guidelines in relation to the management of safely and
security risks. Strategic Management and Change Management will entail the
following: Define and continuously review the purpose, objectives, priorities
and core activities of the Chief Directorate to ensure strategic alignment and
organisational relevance; Drive the Chief Directorate’s strategy, including the
development, planning and management of strategic and business plans;
Evaluate performance on an ongoing basis against predetermined key
measurable objectives, targets and standards, ensuring continuous
improvement; Report to the Head of Department on a regular basis on the
activities of the Chief Directorate and on matters of substantial importance
relating to operational management support; Monitor and ensure compliance
with all relevant legislation, regulations and prescripts, with specific emphasis
on proper and compliant record-keeping; Lead change management initiatives
to strengthen organisational adaptability, operational efficiency and
stakeholder responsiveness; Foster and promote a culture of innovation,
encouraging new approaches, continuous learning and improved service
delivery within the Chief Directorate. People Management will entail the
following: Recruitment and Selection; Employee Development; Performance
Management; Capacity Building; Labour Relations and Discipline
Management. Financial Management: Budget participation and preparation;
Financial reporting, accountability and proper record keeping; Tender
Procurement and Tender procedures; Contract Management; Strategic
alignment; Asset Management; Contract Management; Risk Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. H Arendse Tel No: (021) 483 6915
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 45/461 : DIRECTOR: COMMUNITY POLICE RELATIONS, REF NO: POCS 14/2025
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), all–inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of Police Oversight and Community Safety, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-degree/ Advanced Diploma (NQF 7) or higher
qualification as recognised by SAQA; A minimum of 5 years relevant
middle/senior management experience; Successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-entry Programme for entry into the SMS submitted prior to
appointment. Competencies: Proven knowledge of and working experience of
the following: Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies, and best practices
relevant to the line functions of the Directorate; Legislation, regulatory
frameworks, policies and best practices that have a bearing on the line
functions, amongst others, the SAPS Act 68 of 1995; the CSPS Act 2 of 2011;
the WCCSA 3 of 2013; the ICVPS, 2022 and the Community Policing Policy,
2020. Information and Knowledge Management Systems; Procurement and
tendering processes; Policy development and Strategic Management; Broad
understanding of global, regional and local political, economic and social
dynamics affecting the Western Cape Government; Labour relations
legislation, regulations, and best practices; Performance Management
Systems and Frameworks. Core Competencies: Strategic capability and
leadership; People Management and Empowerment; Programme and Project
Management; Financial Management; Change Management. Skills:
Numeracy; Computer literacy; Project Management; Accounting/
Finance/Audit; Strategic Planning; Conflict Management skills.
DUTIES : Strategic Management, advice and guidance will entail the following: Develop
stakeholder engagement and relationship building capacity; Implement
stakeholder engagement and relationship building programme and provide
project implementation support; Facilitate the establishment and functionality
of Community Safety Forums (CSFs) at municipal level; Support the
establishment and functionality of Community Policing Forums (CPFs); Foster
partnerships between communities and uniformed services; Build community
capacity through targeted training, awareness, and empowerment initiatives
focused on crime prevention and safety promotion; Monitor and evaluate the
impact of community safety initiatives to ensure sustainable and measurable
outcomes. Strategic Management and Change Management will entail the
following: Define and review on a continual basis the purpose, objectives,
priorities and activities of the Directorate; Drive the Directorate’s strategic
planning process; Drive the development and management of the strategic and
294
business plans for the Directorate; Evaluate the performance of the Directorate
on a continuing basis against pre-determined key measurable objectives and
standards; Report to the Chief Director on a regular basis on the activities of
the Directorate and on matters of substantial importance relating to operational
management support; Monitor and ensure compliance with relevant legislation
and prescripts in respect of adequate and appropriate record keeping of the
activities of the Directorate, and of the resources (people, finances and assets)
employed by it; Foster and promote a culture of innovation within the
Directorate, and the Department; Diligently perform all duties assigned to the
post of Director. People Management will entail the following: Recruitment and
Selection; Employee Development; Performance Management; Capacity
Building; Labour Relations and Discipline Management. Financial
Management: Budget participation and preparation; Financial reporting,
accountability and proper record keeping; Tender Procurement and Tender
procedures; Contract Management; Strategic alignment; Asset Management;
Contract Management; Risk Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr H Arendse Tel No: (021) 483 4861
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/462 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (DEPARTMENTAL COMMUNICATION):
COMMUNICATION REF NO: POCS 10/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Police Oversight and Community Safety, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years relevant experience. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Extensive knowledge of applicable policies,
legislation. guidelines, standards, procedures and best practices; Management
principles; Public Service procedures; People management practices; Labour
relations; Public Relations; Financial management; Expert knowledge of
communication policy and strategies; Global, regional and local political,
economic and social affairs impacting on the PGWC; Events management;
Media liaison practices. Skills in the following: Planning and Organising; Writing
and Reporting; Working with People; Adhering to Principles and Values;
Relating and Networking; Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Language
skills; Project Management; Accounting / Finance / Audit; Budgeting and
Financial Management; Communication and Information Management;
Continuous Improvement; Citizen Focus and Responsiveness; Diversity
Management; Impact and Influence; Planning and Organising; Problem
Solving and Decision Making; The following will be advantageous: A valid
(Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
DUTIES : Coordinate Internal Communications; Coordinate and facilitate Web Research,
Preparation and Uploads; Coordinate External Communications; Facilitate
Procurement and Administrative Communication Requirements; Managerial
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr I Davids Tel No: (021) 483 6689
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
295
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 26 January 2026
POST 45/463 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: COMMUNITY TRAINING REF NO: POCS
15/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Police Oversight and Community Safety, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1-year relevant experience. Competencies:
Knowledge and understanding of the following: PFMA Section 6, Western
Cape Community Safety Act of 2013; Engaging communities; Extensive
administration knowledge within a government environment. Skills needed:
Numeracy; Computer Literacy; Language skills; Financial Management;
Decisive discipline Integrity; Verbal and written communication; Self-motivated;
Facilitation and presentation skills; Planning and organising skills;
Interpersonal relationships skills; Problem solving skills; Organising; Ability to
work under pressure.
DUTIES : Facilitate all administrative and general support requirements for accredited
neighbourhood watches; Facilitate administrative processes to ensure the
implementation of training for accredited Neighbourhood Watches and Farm
Watches; Facilitate administrative processes to support the funding of
accredited Neighbourhood Watches and Farm Watches; Facilitate the
administration process to ensure Accredited NHWs are resourced; Provide
administrative and technical support to the Online NHW Accreditation
Application.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Dwarte Tel No: (021) 483 3798
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 26 January 2026
DEPARTMENT OF THE PREMIER
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 26 January 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews
on a date and time as determined by the department. The selection process
will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Should you
experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note that technical
support (challenges with online application) is only available from Monday to
Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries
person as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
296
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/464 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PRACTICE ENABLEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
REF NO: DOTP 72/2025 R1
SALARY : R468 459 - R 561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Social Sciences, Humanities, Industrial Psychology, Public and
Business Management Science or related; A minimum of 3 years relevant
experience. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Organisational
performance as they relate to the field of organization development;
Appropriate job evaluation system; Organisation development theory, practice,
and techniques regarding organisation design, process development and
improvement and behaviour; Information systems that aid in the management
of knowledge and information pertaining to the line function; Appreciative
inquiry; Research methods / statistics(action research, quantitative and
qualitative); Project management; Operational management practices;
Mentoring and coaching practices; National and provincial instruments and
legislation pertaining to human resources management, financial management
and supply chain management; Policies of the government of the day (national
and provincial); Provincial government functions and services; Statutory
framework governing the broad management of the public service; Staff
performance management system (SPMS);Disciplinary and grievance
procedure; It will be advantageous to have a valid(Code B or higher) driving
licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Skills needed: Numeracy;
Literacy; Computer Literacy; Written and verbal communication; Project
Management; Accounting Finance and Audit; Analytical; Data analysis and
interpretation; ICT Systems Awareness; Benchmarking; Conceptual,
interpretive and formulation; Diagnostic; Facilitation and process consultation;
Influencing; Innovative problem-solving; Intervention design.
DUTIES : Deliver departmental work organisation capacity services; Deliver transversal
job design services; Deliver on transversal organisation design and alignment;
Deliver on transversal service delivery initiatives; Deliver a practice enablement
and development service; Plan, execute and monitor project(s);Supervise
Organisational Development Practitioners.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Smith Tel No: (021) 466 9542
POST 45/465 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: CORPORATE COMMUNICATION REF NO:
DOTP 92/2025
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification) plus an accredited
secretarial diploma and/or administrative qualification on the level of NQF level
5 or relevant higher tertiary qualification; A minimum of 3 years relevant
experience in rendering support services to senior management.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Office Administration; Managing
diaries, meetings, and filing systems; Procurement and financial processes
within government; WCG travel and accommodation policies. Skills needed:
Written and verbal communication; Document management; Ability to draft,
edit, and proofread official correspondence; Strong attention to detail for
accuracy and compliance; Advanced MS Office skills (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, Outlook); Familiarity with digital collaboration tools (MS Teams,
SharePoint); Event and travel coordination; Organising logistics for meetings,
workshops, and official trips; Ability to work independently and as part of a
team; Customer Service Orientation – Professional and responsive to
stakeholder needs; Adaptability – Ability to work under pressure and adjust to
changing priorities; Interpersonal Skills – Builds positive relationships across
all levels; Attention to Detail – Ensures accuracy in documentation and
scheduling.
297
DUTIES : Executive support and office management: Manage the Director’s diary,
schedule appointments, and prioritize tasks; Act as the first point of contact for
internal and external stakeholders; Maintain confidentiality and professionalism
in all interactions; Meeting and event coordination; Organise and prepare
meetings, including agendas, briefing notes, and presentations; Ensure
accurate minute-taking and follow-up on action items; Coordinate logistics for
events, workshops, and site visits; Communication and correspondence; Draft,
edit, and manage official correspondence, reports, and documentation; Screen
calls, emails, and inquiries, ensuring timely responses; Facilitate effective
communication between the Director and stakeholders; Document and
information management; Maintain filing systems (electronic and physical) for
easy retrieval; Track submissions, deadlines, and ensure compliance with
WCG protocols; Handle sensitive and confidential documents with discretion;
Travel and logistics; Arrange travel itineraries, accommodation, and transport
for official trips; Ensure compliance with WCG travel policies and budgetary
requirements; Financial and administrative support; Process procurement
requests, claims, and approvals; Assist with budget monitoring and
expenditure tracking for the Director’s office; Liaise with HR and finance for
operational requirements; Gatekeeping and prioritisation; Manage access to
the Director, filtering requests and prioritizing urgent matters; Ensure the
Director’s time is allocated effectively for strategic priorities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Steyn Tel No: (021) 483 9955
DEPARTMENT OF PROVINCIAL TREASURY
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 26 January 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews
on a date and time as determined by the department. The selection process
will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Should you
experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note that technical
support (challenges with online application) is only available from Monday to
Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries
person as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POST
POST 45/466 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT PRACTITIONER: PROCUREMENT AND
CONTRACT MANAGEMENT REF NO: PT 37/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Provincial treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Financial Management, SCM policy development, Commerce,
Public Administration or Supply Chain Management; A minimum of 1 year
related supply chain management experience. Competencies: Knowledge of
the following: Public Sector policies and regulations (Public Financial
Management Act (Act of 1999) Public Service Act (Act 103 of 1994); Prescripts,
policies and procedures governing financial and supply Chain Management;
National Treasury Contract Management Framework; National Treasury
Regulations (NTR), National and Provincial Treasury`s Supply Chain
Management Instructions/Note/Circulars, Supply Chain Management
Policies/legislations/Acts; public sector procurement processes, contract
management, monitoring supplier performance. Skills needed: Written and
verbal communication; Planning and organisational; Ability to work
independently and meet deadlines and ability to work under pressure and
deliver to tight deadlines, work in a team and preparedness to work overtime
when required; Management and leadership.
298
DUTIES : Coordinate, review, undertake and implement the supply chain demand
management process and policies; Render effective Contract Management
services; Render risk management and performance monitoring services with
regard to supply chain internally and externally.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Rhapale Tel No: (021) 483 6107
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 26 January 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to attend interviews
on a date and time as determined by the department. The selection process
will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. Should you
experience difficulties with your online application, kindly note that technical
support (challenges with online application) is only available from Monday to
Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214.
Otherwise, all other queries relating to the position, kindly contact the enquiries
person as indicated in the advert. Please ensure that you submit your
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 45/467 : CHILD AND YOUTH CARE TEAM LEADER: PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
REF NO: DSD 106/2025
(Various posts available in various locations)
SALARY : Grade 1: R203 748 – R230 700 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 2: R240 147 – R282 342 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification); A minimum of 7 years
appropriate experience in child and youth care work after obtaining the required
qualification; A valid code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Developmental programmes and interventions;
Clerical/administrative procedures; Rules and procedures of the Care Centre;
Professional norms and standards; Professional ethics. Skills in the following:
Proven computer literacy; Written and verbal communication; Ability to
intervene and resolve conflict; Report writing; Presentation and facilitation;
Planning and organising; Work effectively with social workers and members of
multi-sectoral teams in social service delivery.
DUTIES : Serve as a team leader for child and youth care workers during a shifts;
Oversee the following: Admission and related activities of residents to the
facility; Access of residents to medical services; Implementation of planned
developmental, recreational and therapeutic programmes; Basic life space
work; Continuous supervision; Facilitate handover of shifts; Undertake
inspections during a shifts and report on incidents and problems identified;
Perform administrative work relevant to the job; Oversee the completion of
daily registers e.g. log books, medication registers, incident reports etc.;
Ensure that attendance registers are signed and kept up to date; Perform all
the clerical functions required; Render care services to residents; Continuous
professional development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Nicholas Tel No: (044) 803 7508
POST 45/468 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MONITORING AND REPORTING REF NO: DSD
61/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years relevant experience. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Applicable policies, legislation, guidelines,
299
standards, procedures and best practices; Public Service procedures; Project
management methodologies and standards; Global, regional and local
political, economic and social affairs impacting on the Western Cape
Government. Skills needed: Interpret and apply relevant policies and
procedures; Problem solving; Facilitation; Presentation; Policy formulation and
analysis; Monitoring and evaluation; Communication (written and verbal);
Organising; Information and knowledge management and Dispute
resolution/conflict management; Interpersonal relationships; Analytical
thinking; Project management; Ability to analyse, conceptualise and implement
policy; Research.
DUTIES : Develop and implement Departmental performance monitoring and reporting
processes; Contribute to the development and maintenance of performance
indicators and monitoring frameworks; Monitor the implementation of the
service delivery improvement plans (SDIPs); Facilitate the Department’s MPAT
process; Provide support and guidance in the management of Provincial
Project Management and Information systems (BizSuite: BizProjects,
BizPerformance, BizBrain).
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Nieftagodien at sihaam.nieftagodien@westerncape.gov.za
POST 45/469 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: QUOTATION ADMINISTRATION REF NO: DSD
105/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree/Advanced Diploma (equivalent qualification or
higher); A minimum of 3 years supervisory level experience in Supply Chain
Management; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to
transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Public
sector SCM legislation, policies and procedures; Research and Reporting
procedures; Strategic sourcing methodologies; Financial Management and
Project Management; Standard bidding and advertising formats, market
analysis methodology / sourcing strategies / Procurement Plan / Delegation of
authority / Methods of product selection; Strategic sourcing and preferential
procurement policy / BEE. Skills needed: Analytical thinking; Job Knowledge;
Communication (written and verbal); Interpersonal relations; Flexibility;
Teamwork; Planning and Organising; Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy;
Accounting, Finance and Audit.
DUTIES : Manage and supervise staff regarding the following functions and perform the
more complex work in that regard: Supervise and compile quotation
specifications as required; Coordinate, review, and compile the list of
prospective providers for quotations; Supervise the sourcing of quotations for
all purchases below R1000 000; Implementation of records and information
management within the Division; Supervise human resource staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Rakiep Tel No: (021) 483 4720
300