PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 31 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 29 AUGUST 2025
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge
and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH
IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative
action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied.
Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the
filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment
in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR A 03 - 11
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING B 12 - 31
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT C 32 - 36
MINERAL AND PETROLEUM RESOURCES D 37 - 38
NATIONAL TREASURY E 39 - 43
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE F 44 - 47
PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE G 48 - 61
SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT H 62 - 64
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
EASTERN CAPE I 65 - 108
FREE STATE J 109 - 126
GAUTENG K 127 - 131
KWAZULU NATAL L 132 - 159
LIMPOPO M 160 - 192
MPUMALANGA N 193 - 209
NORTHERN CAPE O 210 - 211
WESTERN CAPE P 212 - 243
2
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 00:00 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the correct
job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your email.
Use the correct email address associated with the post. JPEG
(picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Failure to do so, your
application will be disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference
number must be submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your
information will be used soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. If you
have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below
advertised post(s). The successful candidate will be required to enter into an
employment contract and a performance agreement. The Department is an
equal opportunity affirmative action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of
the Department shall inform the employment decision. It is the Department’s
intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of
this post(s)
OTHER POSTS
POST 31/01 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ORGANIZATIONAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO
HR4/25/09/01HO
Re-advert, applicants who previously applied must re-apply.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
3
REQUIREMENTS : An Undergraduate qualification at (NQF 6) as recognized by SAQA in
Management Services/ Industrial Engineering/ Operations/ Production
Management/ Industrial Psychology/Human Resource Management. Four (4)
years functional experience in Organisational Development/ Effectiveness/
Work Study services environment. Knowledge: Basic understanding of
policies, regulations, prescripts and legislation, Understanding of efficiency
promotion including the development of organisational structure, Job profile
design and Job evaluation, Organisational behaviour, Business Process
Management, Organisational Design, DPSA Resolutions and Guidelines,
Labour Relations Act, Basic knowledge of Public Financial Management Act.
Skills: Organizational and planning, Facilitation, Project Management,
Computer, Good communication (verbal and written), Listening, Interviewing,
Research, Analytical, Good interpersonal relation, Report writing, Innovative.
DUTIES : Manage and facilitate organizational development investigations. Manage and
facilitate the development and review of job profile in the Department. Facilitate
and conduct Job Evaluation processes within the Department. Coordinate and
Facilitate the development of Business Process Improvement. Conduct
change management processes intervention and organizational client survey
in the Department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Nkhabelane Tel No: (012) 309 4747
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ19@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Head Office
POST 31/02 : COID EMPLOYER AUDITOR REF NO: HR4/4/5/76
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: KZN
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF 6) as recognised by SAQA in Financial
Accounting/BCOM Accounting/ Internal Auditing. Knowledge: Analysing &
Interpreting Information (Data Analytics), Knowledge of relevant regulations,
laws and legislation, Financial Risk Management and Control, Departmental
policies and procedures, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Batho Pele
Principles, Compensation of Occupational and Injury Disease Act (COIDA),
OHS Act and regulations, Public Service Regulation, Inspector Appointment
Certificate, Inspectors Card, Public Financial Management Act (PFMA). Skills:
Analysing & Interpreting Information (Data Analytics), Employer Assessment
and Auditing, Revision of Assessment, People Management, Service Delivery
Innovation, Stakeholder Development & Relations, Programme/Project
Planning & Management, Facilitation, Accountability, Analytical thinking,
Attention to detail, Brand and Customer Oriented Service Delivery, Business
and Financial Acumen, Communication, Emotional Intelligence, Ethics and
Governance, Team orientation.
DUTIES : Conduct payroll audit on employers in terms of COIDA. Investigate complaints
made on non-compliance with COIDA within prescribed time frames. Issue
enforcement notices on non-compliant employers within the prescribed time
frames. Prepare documents for prosecution of non-compliant employers within
the prescribed time frames. Prepare statistics on a weekly basis to report
performance.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs P Shandu Tel No: (031) 366 2095
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Provincial Operations: P. O. Box 940, Durban, 4000 Or hand
deliver at 267 Anton Lembede Street, Durban. For online Applications Email to:
Jobs-KZN9@Labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Provincial Office: KwaZulu-
Natal
POST 31/03 : UI CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER (X107 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Phuthaditjhaba Labour Centre: Ref No: HR 4/4/8/944 (X8 Posts)
Labour Centre: Petrusburg: Ref No: HR 4/4/8/945 (X6 Posts)
Labour Centre: Kroonstad: Ref No: HR 4/4/8/946 (X8 Posts)
Labour Centre: Ficksburg: Ref No: Ref No: HR 4/4/8/947 (X7 Posts)
Labour Centre: Botshabelo: Ref No: HR 4/4/8/948 (X5 Posts)
Thaba Nchu Satelite: Ref No: HR 4/4/8/949 (X8 Posts)
Labour Centre: Zastron: Ref No: HR 4/4/8/950 (X6 Posts)
4
Labour Centre: Harrismith: Ref No: HR 4/4/8/951 (X10 Posts)
Labour Centre: Sasolburg: Ref No: HR 4/4/8/952 (X6 Posts)
Labour Centre: Parys Satelite: Ref No: HR 4/4/8/953 (X8 Posts)
Labour Centre: Virginia Satelite: Ref No: HR 4/4/8/954 (X5 Posts)
Labour Centre: Bethlehem: Ref No: HR/4/4/8/955 (X4 Posts)
Labour Centre: Reitz: Ref No: HR 4/4/8/956 (X12 Posts)
Provincial Office, Free State: Ref No: HR 4/4/8/957 (X14 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12\ Senior Certificate; Zero experience. Knowledge: Unemployment
Insurance Act and Regulations, Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act,
Public Financial Management Act (PFMA) Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA), Treasury Regulations, Batho Pele Principles, Department of
Labour and UIF Policies and Procedures, UIF’s vision, Mission and Values,
Customer Care Principles, Procedures and Guidelines Skills: Interviewing,
Communication (verbal and written), Listening, Computer Literacy, Customer
Relations, Analytical, Time Management, Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette,
on job training (operation system).
DUTIES : Provide screening service. Process applications for UIF benefits. Register
payment continuation forms. Provide administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MJ Ngono Tel No: (051) 933 2299 (Botshabelo and Thaba Nchu Satellite)
Mr T Moholi Tel No: (051) 303 5293 (Bethlehem and Virginia Satellite)
Ms Lelope Tel No: (051) 970 3200 (Sasolburg and Parys Satellite)
Mr A Kutuka Tel No: (058) 713 0373 (Phuthaditjhaba and Ficksburg)
Mr D Namane Tel No: (053) 574 0932 (Petrusburg)
Mr S Malope Tel No: (056) 215 1812 (Kroonstad)
Mr C Van Niekerk Tel No: (051) 673 1471 (Zastron)
Ms T Mvelase Tel No: (058) 623 2977 (Harrismith)
Mr E Qhalane Tel No: (057) 391 0200 (Virginia)
Ms N Zama Tel No: (051) 505 6276 (Provincial Office)
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein, 9300
Or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: jobs-fs11@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Free State
POST 31/04 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICERS: UIF (X58 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Chatsworth Satellite Office Ref No: HR4/4/5/61 (X5 Posts)
Dundee Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/5/60 (X6 Posts)
Estcourt Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/5/62 (X2 Posts)
Kokstad Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/5/63 (X7 Posts)
Ladysmith Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/5/64 (X4 Posts)
Newcastle Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/5/65 (X4 Posts)
Pinetown Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/5/67 (X6 Posts)
Prospecton Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/5/78 (X2 Posts)
Richmond Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/5/68 (X1 Post)
Stanger Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/5/69 (X1 Post)
Ulundi Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/5/70 (X1 Post)
Jozini Satellite Office Ref No: HR4/4/5/71 (X6 Posts)
Verulam Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/572 (X4 Posts)
Phoenix Satellite Office Ref No: HR4/4/5/73 (X4 Posts)
Vryheid Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/5/74 (X5 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/ Grade 12. Knowledge: Unemployment Insurance Act and
Regulations, Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act, Public Financial
Management Act (PFMA), Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA),
Treasury Regulations, Batho Pele Principles, Department of Labour and UIF
Policies and Procedures, UIF’s Vision, Mission and Values, Customer Care
Principles, Departmental Policies, Procedures and Guidelines. Skills:
Interviewing, Communication (verbal and written), Computer literacy, Listening,
Interpretation (ability to interpret UI Act and Contribution Act), Conflict
management, Time management, Customer relations, Analytical,
Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, On job training (operational systems).
DUTIES : Provide screening services. Process applications for UIF benefits. Register
payment contribution forms. Provide administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Khumalo Tel No: (034) 212 2421 (Dundee)
Mr J Fakazi Tel No: (036) 352 7767 (Estcourt)
Mr S Ngqoza Tel No: (039) 727 2140 (Kokstad)
Ms L Radebe Tel No: (036) 638 1900 (Ladysmith)
5
Mr S Pillay Tel No: (036) 638 1900 (Newcastle)
Mr B Gwala Tel No: ((031) 701 7740 (Pinetown)
Mr K Naidoo Tel No: (031) 065 0100 (Prospecton)
Mr K Naidoo Tel No: (031) 065 0100 (Chatsworth Satellite)
Mr P Mtolo Tel No: (033) 212 2768 (Richmond)
Ms S Mkhize Tel No: (032) 551 7300 (Stanger)
Mr T Nkosi Tel No: (035) 879 8800 (Ulundi)
Mr T Nkosi, Tel No: (035) 879 8800 (Jozini)
Mr B Zondi Tel No: (032) 541 5600 (Verulam & Phoenix)
Mr F Dladla Tel No: (034) 5980 8916 (Vryheid)
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Dundee Labour Centre, PO Box 445, Dundee, 3000 Or
hand deliver at 63 Victoria Street, Dundee. For Online Applications Email to:
Jobs-KZN4@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Estcourt Labour Centre, P O Box 449, Estcourt, 3310 Or
hand deliver at 75 Phillip Street, Estcourt. For Online Applications Email to:
Jobs-KZN18@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Kokstad Labour Centre, PO Box 260, Kokstad, 4700 or
hand deliver at 59 Hope Street, Kokstad. For Online Applications Email to:
Jobs-KZN1@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Ladysmith Labour Centre, Private Bag X9925, Ladysmith,
3370 or hand deliver at 35 Keate Street, Ladysmith. For Online Applications
Email to: Jobs-KZN5@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Newcastle Labour Centre, Private Bag X9925, Newcastle
3370 or hand deliver at 29 Scott Street, Newcastle 2940. For Online
Applications Email to: Jobs-KZN20@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Pinetown Labour Centre, P. O Box 1025 Pinetown, 3610
or hand deliver at 49 Kings Road, Pinetown. For Online Applications Email to:
Jobs-KZN11@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Prospecton Labour Centre, PO Box 343, Umbongothwini
4120 or hand deliver at N 3 Prospecton Place, Prospecton. For Online
Applications Email to: Jobs-KZN17@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Prospecton Labour Centre, PO Box 343, Umbongothwini
4120 or hand deliver at N 3 Prospecton Place, Prospecton. For Online
Applications Email to: Jobs-KZN17@Labour.gov.za (For Chatsworth Satellite)
Deputy Director: Richmond Labour Centre, PO Box 852, Richmond 3780 or
hand deliver at 60 Shepstone Street, Richmond. For Online Applications Email
to: Jobs-KZN2@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Stanger Labour Centre, PO Box 138, Stanger 4450 or hand
deliver at 12 Cator Street, Stanger. For Online Applications Email to: Jobs-
KZN10@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Ulundi Labour Centre, Private Bag X56, Ulundi 3838 or
hand deliver at Unit A Wombe, Street Ulundi. For Online Applications Email to:
Jobs-KZN3@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Ulundi Labour Centre, Private Bag X56, Ulundi 3838 or
hand deliver at Unit A Wombe, Street Ulundi. For Online Applications Email to:
Jobs-KZN3@Labour.gov.za (For Jozini Satellite)
Deputy Director: Verulam Labour Centre, PO Box 1144, Verulam or hand
deliver at 13 Wick Street, Verulam. For Online Applications Email to: Jobs-
KZN25@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Verulam Labour Centre, PO Box 1144, Verulam or hand
deliver at 13 Wick Street, Verulam. For Online Applications Email to: Jobs-
KZN25@Labour.gov.za (For Phoenix Satellite)
Deputy Director: Vryheid Labour Centre, PO Box 430, Vryheid orhand
deliver at 99 Landrose Street, Vryheid. For Online Applications Email to: Jobs-
KZN29@Labour.gov.za
POST 31/05 : SECRETARY REF NO: GP/2025/08/91226201
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade 12/National Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Departmental policies
and procedures, Planning and organizing, Administration procedures, Batho
Pele Principles, Interpersonal relations. Skills: Facilitation, Interpersonal
relationship, Communication (verbal and written), Computer literacy,
Telephone etiquette, Organising, Decision making, Analytical, Project
Management.
6
DUTIES : Provide a receptionist support to the Office of the DDG: Corporate Services
including dairy management for the DDG: Corporate Services. Render a
Secretariat Service for the Office of the DDG. Assist in Monitoring and
maintaining the budget including the supply chain for the Office of the DDG.
Facilitate and coordinate all logistical and resource requirements of the Office
of the DDG. Provide Management Information and records management
services in the Office of the DDG. Track and monitor projects tasks within the
Office of the DDG.
ENQUIRIES : Ms BB Matebesi Tel No: (012) 309 4865
Essa Sysytem Enquiries: Email: Pes@Labour.gov.za or contact the Alteram
Call centre on 0860101018
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. ESSA LINK:
https://crs.labour.gov.za/sap/bc/ui5_ui5/sap/zcommreg_new/index.html
GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMMES FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2025 TO 2027
The Department of Employment and Labour (Compensation Fund) would like to invite qualifying
applicants to apply for Graduate Internship programme) for the financial year 2025 to 2027. The Graduate
Internship Programmes are meant to provide work exposure to graduates for the period of twenty (24)
months and the applicants must be unemployed, never participated in the Graduate Internship
Programmes previously.
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct your
applications online to: Jobs-CF27@labour.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 00:00 midnight (online)
NOTE : The Department of Employment and Labour (Compensation Fund) invites
South African unemployed graduates to apply for the 2025 to 2027 internship
programme. The internship is meant to provide work exposure to graduates
related to their qualifications for a period of twenty-four (24) months from the
date of appointment. Applicants must be unemployed and never participated in
any internship programme previously. Application quoting the relevant
reference number must be submitted through the addresses depicted above or
use the correct email address associated with the post. Applicants are not
required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on
applications. Only an updated comprehensive CV and a completed initialled
and signed new Z83 application form is require, obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant. Failure to fully complete, initial and sign the Z83 form
will lead to disqualification of the application during the selection process. All
fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E,
F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is acceptable for applicants to
indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the question related to
conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part ‘’F’’ must be answered.
Affidavit confirming that you have not participated in a similar programme
before will be required during the invitation to an interview stage. Non-RSA
Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit/ should you in possession of foreign
qualifications; it must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). All
attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the correct
job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your email.
Applicants who do not comply with the obove-mentioned requirements and
instructions will no be considered. Due to the large number of applications we
envisage to receive, application will not be acknowledged, if you have not been
contacted within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates will
be required to submit their qualifications and other supporting documents on
or before the date of the interview. The successful candidate will be subjected
to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record
checks, qualification verification and employment verification). Applicants must
declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other allegations
/investigations against them. Should this be uncovered during/ after the
7
interview took place, the application will not be considered and in the unlikely
event, that the person has been appointed such appointment will be
terminated. The successful candidate will be appointed subject to positive
results of the security screening process. All applicants are required to declare
any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships of Boards
and directorships that they may be associated with. The Department reserves
the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s)
OTHER POSTS
POST 31/06 : EMPLOYER SERVICES: EMPLOYER REGISTRATION: TARIFFS:
INTERNSHIP REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/74 (X5 POSTS)
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Compensation Fund Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Business Management/
Business Administration/ Public Management/ Public Administration/
Operations Management.
DUTIES : Facilitate receipt of new registration forms. Facilitate sub-class investigations
on existing files to ensure correctness of tariffs. Facilitate the applications for
sub-class or nature of business change on existing files from employers.
Facilitate separation or combination of existing files.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Madiega at 079 691 1471
POST 31/07 : EMPLOYER SERVICES: EMPLOYER REGISTRATION: INDEX:
INTERNSHIP REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/75 (X5 POSTS)
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Compensation Fund Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Business Management/
Business Administration/ Public Management/ Public Administration/
Operations Management.
DUTIES : Facilitate employer registration process. Conduct the process of updating the
master data. Attend and monitor the capturing of employer banking details.
Attend and monitor the capturing of employer banking details. Conduct quality
assurance on captured data.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Madiega at 079 691 1471
POST 31/08 : EMPLOYER SERVICES: EMPLOYER REGISTRATION: QUALITY
ASSURANCE: INTERNSHIP REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/76 (X5 POSTS)
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Compensation Fund Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Business Management/
Business Administration/ Public Management/ Public Administration/
Operations Management.
DUTIES : Conduct quality assurance on finalised employer registration. Conduct quality
assurance on data captured by employer registration team. Conduct quality
assurance on sub-class and nature of business changes done by Tariffs
Section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Madiega at 079 691 1471
POST 31/09 : EMPLOYER ASSESSMENT (LARGE ACCOUNT): INTERNSHIP REF NO:
HR 5/1/2/3/77 (X15 POSTS)
Branch: Employer Services
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Compensation Fund Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Financial Accounting/ Internal
Audit/ Financial Management.
DUTIES : Assist in the assessment and verification of employer-submitted earnings
declarations for COIDA compliance. Support the review and revision of
employer assessments to ensure accuracy and alignment with legislative
requirements. Participate in the verification of employer records and supporting
documentation for audit readiness. Contribute to the digitization and
maintenance of assessment records and workflows. Assist with administrative
8
tasks and internal reporting related to employer compliance and performance
tracking.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Maluleke at 060 989 8294
POST 31/10 : EMPLOYER COMPLIANCE: INTERNSHIP REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/78 (X14
POSTS)
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Compensation Fund Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Accounting/ Financial
Accounting/ Taxation/ Cost and Management Accounting/ Auditing.
DUTIES : Assist in preparing and organizing documentation to support compliance audits
and related activities. Help gather and maintain employer information, including
statutory data, to support profiling and compliance tracking. Review submitted
documents for completeness and accuracy, and support internal verification
processes. Liaise with stakeholders to follow up on outstanding information and
ensure timely updates. Contribute to compliance initiatives by monitoring
progress, compiling summaries, and identifying areas requiring further
attention.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Makgamatha at 083 288 2845
POST 31/11 : STATUTORY SERVICES: INTERNSHIP REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/79 (X5 POSTS)
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Compensation Fund Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in LLB/BA Law.
DUTIES : Drafting of court papers and compliance notices. Providing support to
provinces on enforcement matters. Administering and managing statutory case
files.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Paulus at 060 980 3314
POST 31/12 : INTERNAL AUDIT: INTERNSHIP REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/80 (X5 POSTS)
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Compensation Fund Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Internal Audit/ Cost and
Management Accounting/ Financial Accounting/Accounting Sciences/
Financial Management/ Information System Audit.
DUTIES : Assist with the conducting internal audit as per methodology in operational and
compliance audit, ICT Audits, performance audits, conduct quality assurance
assessments, perform audit committee secretariat function and other
administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Zwane at 082 331 5680
POST 31/13 : TREASURY AND INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT: INTERNSHIP REF NO: HR
5/1/2/3/81 (X3 POSTS)
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Compensation Fund Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Financial Accounting/
Management Accounting/ Financial/ Investment Management/ Auditing.
DUTIES : Assist with preparation of monthly reconciliation, Financial and Investment
accounting journals, Analysis of investees performance, annual financial
statement, cash flows management and assist in administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Moni at 063 689 4157
POST 31/14 : MEDICAL BILLING AND CLINICAL CODING: INTERNSHIP REF NO: HR
5/1/2/3/82 (X5 POSTS)
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Compensation Fund Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Public Management/ Public
Administration/ Business Administration Management/ Administrative
Management.
DUTIES : Receive, assets and validate medical invoices, capture medical invoices, assist
in audits, publishing of gazette and administration of medical tariffs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Netshituka at 060 836 4013
9
POST 31/15 : MEDICAL CLAIMS: INTERNSHIP REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/83 (X12 POSTS)
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Compensation Fund Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Public Management/Public
Administration/ Business Administration Management/ Administrative
Management.
DUTIES : Receive, assets and validate medical invoices, capture medical invoices,
refunds and travelling expenses and resolve allocated enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Hariparsad at 076 228 8306
POST 31/16 : MEDICAL BENEFITS: INTERNSHIP REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/84
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Compensation Fund Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Office Administration/ Public
Management/ Public Administration.
DUTIES : Office Administration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Nyeufan at 063 694 7877
POST 31/17 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT: INTERNSHIP REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/85 (X3
POSTS)
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Compensation Fund Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Supply Chain Management/
Logistics.
DUTIES : Assist with provision of Supply Chain Management Services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Pinana at 060 989 8663
TRAINEE EMPLOYMENT COUNSELLORS PROGRAMME YEAR 2025/2026
The Department would like to invite qualifying graduates to apply to participate in the Department’s
Employment Counsellors Trainee Program. The Programme is meant to provide Employment
Counselling work exposure to graduates for a period of twelve (12) months.
APPLICATIONS : Application quoting the relevant reference number must be as possible made
to the province of residence and be submitted through the ESSA link
ttps://crs.labour.gov.za/sap/bc/ui5_ui5/sap/zcommreg_new/index.html.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
NOTE : The Department of Employment and Labour invites South African unemployed
graduates to apply for the 2025/2026 Employment Counsellors Programme.
The Programmed is meant to provide work exposure to graduates related to
their qualifications for a period of 12 months from the date of appointment.
Applicants must be unemployed. Only an updated comprehensive CV and a
completed initialled and signed new Z83 application form is require, obtainable
from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect application
for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each post(s) advert must be
accompanied by its own application form for employment and must be fully
completed, initialled and signed by the applicant. Failure to fully complete,
initial and sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during
the selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part ‘’F’’ must
be answered. Advantage will be given to applicants who did not participated in
a similar programme before. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit/
should you in possession of foreign qualifications must be accompanied by an
evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA)
(only when shortlisted). All attachments for application must include an
application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or
attachment, indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the post
on the subject line of your email. Applicants who do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements and instructions will not be considered. Due to the
large number of applications we envisage to receive, application will not be
acknowledged, if you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the
10
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only.
Therefore, only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit their
qualifications and other supporting documents on or before the date of the
interview. The successful candidate will be subjected to a personnel suitability
check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification
verification and employment verification). Applicants must declare any pending
criminal, disciplinary or any other allegations /investigations against them.
Should this be uncovered during/ after the interview took place, the application
will not be considered and in the unlikely event, that the person has been
appointed such appointment will be terminated. The successful candidate will
be appointed subject to positive results of the security screening process. All
applicants are required to declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest,
to disclose memberships of Boards and directorships that they may be
associated with. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s)
OTHER POST
POST 31/18 : TRAINEE EMPLOYMENT COUNSELLOR (X130 POSTS)
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Gauteng Ref No: GP/2025/08/91206022 (X16 Posts)
Provincial Office: KwaZulu-Natal Ref No: ZN/2025/08/91204620 (X16 Posts)
Provincial Office: Eastern Cape Ref No: EC/2025/08/91206037 (X16 Posts)
Provincial Office: Western Cape Ref No: WC/2025/08/90894267 (X16 Posts)
Provincial Office: Mpumalanga Ref No: MP/2025/08/91206044 (X8 Posts)
Provincial Office: North West Ref No: NW/2025/08/91206018 (X15 Posts)
Provincial Office: Northern Cape Ref No: NC/2025/08/91201065 (X12 Posts)
Provincial Office: Limpopo Ref No: LP/2025/08/91206054 (X17 Posts)
Provincial Office: Free State Ref No: FS/2025/08/91205363 (X14 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three (3) years relevant tertiary qualification in Psychology or
Industrial Psychology. Candidates with an Honours degree in Psychology or
Industrial Psychology will be given an advantage. Preference will also be given
to candidates registered with the Health Professional Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as a Registered Counsellor (Independent practice) or Psychometrist
(Independent practice)
DUTIES : Render administrative support services to the Employment Counsellor.
Conduct research on labour markets needs and employment counselling best
practices through supervision of the Career Counsellor and the Employment
Services Practitioner. Provide and implement recruitment and selection
services. Network with stakeholders to verify quality of services rendered.
Registration of work-seekers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. V Mazibuko Tel No: (011) 8530 453 (GP)
Mr S Cele Tel No: (031) 3662 162 (KZN)
Ms A Mpapha Tel No: (043) 7013 093 (EC)
Ms M Williams Tel No: (021) 441 8006 (WC)
Ms M Peerbhaai Tel No: (013) 655 8865 (MP)
Mr S Motlhake Tel No: (018) 3878 232 (NW)
Ms H van Deventer Tel No: (053) 8381 546 (NC)
Ms V Marole Tel No: (015) 2901 655 (LP)
Ms R Moses Tel No: (051) 5056 249 (FS)
Essa Sysytem Enquiries: Email: Pes@Labour.gov.za or contact the Alteram
Call centre on 086 010 1018
11
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(Central Johannesburg TVET College)
(Maluti TVET College)
(Western Cape CET College)
OTHER POSTS
POST 31/19 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PARTNERSHIPS AND LINKAGES REF NO:
CJC/PL/16/2025
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10), plus benefits as applicable in the Public
Sector
CENTE : Central Johannesburg TVET College (Central Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent. An appropriate Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree
in Business Management or Administration, Project Management, Marketing
or equivalent qualification. 3-5 years’ work experience in a Project
Management or Business Development environment of which three years
should be at supervisory level. Computer literate and competent in
Word/Excel/PowerPoint/Outlook/Teams. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Presentation and report writing skills. A valid driver’s
licence. Strong interpersonal, analytical, client orientation, motivational,
negotiation and problem-solving skills. Good administrative, planning and
organising, financial management; project management, team leadership and
people management skills. Ability to work under pressure and willingness to
work extended hours when required. A proven record in working successfully
with diverse populations. A positive attitude and ability to plan and adapt to
change. Ability to collaborate effectively with college departments and cross-
functional teams.
DUTIES : Facilitate the management of partnerships. Ensure compliance with
partnership processes and guidelines. Establish and maintain a database of
key related industries / professional bodies and access regular input from these
representatives. Manage and participate in key customer stakeholder
interactions (SETAs, community forums, business and all spheres of
government departments). Participate in SETA related curriculum initiatives.
Identify and establish partnerships for programmatic support (e.g. equipment,
staff and student bursaries, interns, site visits, etc). Identify and exploit
opportunities for generation of funding and income for the College. Identify
appropriate partner(s) for collaboration in pursuit of the College’s strategic
objectives. Coordinate the submission of proposals for funding and/or
donations. Develop proposals for partnering on specific practical opportunities
aligned with the core business of the College. Maintain and update schedule
of local government projects and opportunities. Conduct research for college
projects. Facilitate and maintain student work placement and work integrated
learning. Manage all human, financial and other resources of the unit. Manage
performance, conduct and discipline of employees. Ensure that all employees
are trained and developed to be able to deliver work of the required standard
efficiently and effectively. Compile and submit reports to management, college
council and all other interested parties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. B Khakhu Tel No: (011) 351 6000
APPLICATIONS : All applications are to be sent via online application link to
https://cjcz83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Scanned Applications must consist of: a duly completed and signed online
version of Z83 form, stating the post you are applying for and the relevant
reference number, a recently updated CV. The communication from HR
Department regarding the requirements for certified documents will be limited
to shortlisted candidates. Incomplete applications or applications received after
the closing date will not be considered. A complete set of application
documents should be submitted separately for every post you wish to apply for.
Set of scanned documents must be attached separately for each post you wish
to apply for as per the online application form. Failure to submit the requested
documents will result in your application not being considered. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). No emailed, faxed, posted or hand
delivered applications will be considered. The college reserves the right to
withdraw the posts at any time. Communication will only be entered into with
12
the shortlisted and successful candidates. All shortlisted candidates may be
subjected to qualification and citizen verification, etc. If you are not contacted
after 60 days of the closing date of the applications, please consider your
application unsuccessful. The Central Johannesburg TVET College is an equal
opportunity employer.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025 at 16:00
POST 31/20 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STUDENT REGISTRATION & MANAGEMENT
INFORMATION SYSTEM REF NO: CJC/SRM/17/2025
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10), plus benefits as applicable in the Public
Sector.
CENTE : Central Johannesburg TVET College (Central Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent. A recognised three (3) year National
Diploma (NQF level 6) in Business Administration, Public Management /
Administration, Information Management, Computing or equivalent
qualification. 3-5 years working experience in Information Technology,
administration department, management information systems, information and
data processing or any relevant knowledge. Valid drivers license. Experience
in the post schooling education and training (PSET) sector will be an added
advantage. Knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as the ability to
capture, analyse and interpret data. Working knowledge and understanding of
the legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of data
storage and retrieval procedures. Knowledge of policies and governance
environment of TVET Colleges including the TVETMIS and annual reporting
requirements by the Higher Education Institutions. Knowledge and
understanding of Information Management. Knowledge, understanding,
application and interpretation of office management, ITS / Coltec, etc, data
warehouse and IT prescripts. Proven presentation and report writing skills.
Good communication and people empowerment skills. Advanced computer
literacy, including MSWord, MS Excel and MS PowerPoint. Proven ability to
effectively manage change. Project management, leadership, administrative,
planning and organizing skills.
DUTIES : Manage the administration of the overall student registration. Develop, review
and monitor the implementation of policies and procedure in relation to student
registration, admission, scheduling and records. Provide workshops on the
implementation of policies and procedure in relation to student registration,
admission, scheduling and records. Manage student registration and ensure
proper procedures are followed. Develop and review registration documents
for accuracy. Manage the database for new graduates and alumni. Ensure
provisioning of pre-entry support services to student during the registration
process in relation to (financial aid, bursaries, student accommodation).
Provide guidance and testing of students, with regard to choice of and
placement within programmes. Maintain and update database of students
enrolled within programmes. Ensure that student orientations are conducted.
Ensure that students’ information is captured accurately on Information
Technology System (ITS). Set up the management information system in
readiness for enrolment and support other processes. Control the quality of
captured data and report if there are errors. Maintain the college TVET MIS
system. Manage student data. Use various tools, extract data to facilitate
statistical reporting. Interact with service provider regarding upgrades and
request for assistance. Maintain data and compile statistical reports on staff as
well as student registration and academic performance. Maintain, capture and
validate inputs captured on student and other related systems. Set up the
student system for registration of students and ensure creditability and
reliability. Management of human, physical and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. B Khakhu Tel No: (011) 351 6000
APPLICATIONS : All applications are to be sent via online application link to
https://cjcz83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Scanned Applications must consist of: a duly completed and signed online
version of Z83 form, stating the post you are applying for and the relevant
reference number, (b) a recently updated CV. The communication from HR
Department regarding the requirements for certified documents will be limited
to shortlisted candidates. Incomplete applications or applications received after
the closing date will not be considered. A complete set of application
documents should be submitted separately for every post you wish to apply for.
Set of scanned documents must be attached separately for each post you wish
13
to apply for as per the online application form. Failure to submit the requested
documents will result in your application not being considered. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). No emailed, faxed, posted or hand
delivered applications will be considered. The college reserves the right to
withdraw the posts at any time. Communication will only be entered into with
the shortlisted and successful candidates. All shortlisted candidates may be
subjected to qualification and citizen verification, etc. If you are not contacted
after 60 days of the closing date of the applications, please consider your
application unsuccessful. The Central Johannesburg TVET College is an equal
opportunity employer.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025 at 16:00
POST 31/21 : SENIOR MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS OFFICER REF NO:
CJC/SMIS/18/2025
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), plus benefits as applicable in the Public Sector
CENTE : Central Johannesburg TVET College (Central Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent. A recognised three (3) year National
Diploma (NQF level 6) / Bachelor’s Degree in Information Management / Data
Management or equivalent qualification. 3-5 years working experience in Data
Management / TVETMIS environment or any relevant knowledge. Computer
literate and competent in Word/Excel/PowerPoint/Outlook/Teams. Good verbal
and written communication skills. Presentation and report writing skills. A valid
driver’s licence. Knowledge of policies and governance environment of TVET
Colleges including knowledge of the TVETMIS and annual reporting
requirements by the Higher Education Institutions. Knowledge and
understanding of Information Management. Knowledge, understanding,
application and interpretation of office management, data warehouse and IT
prescripts. Good administrative, planning, organizing, problem solving, project
management, team leadership, analytical, client orientation and team
leadership skills.
DUTIES : Ensure proper management of TVETMIS as well as the capturing and
extraction of College data. Perform validation of data on a regular basis. Set
up the system in readiness for enrolment and support other business
processes. Control the quality of captured data and report if there are errors.
Maintain the college TVETMIS. Manage student and staff data. Use various
tools and extract data to facilitate statistical reporting. Interact with the service
provider regarding upgrades and request for assistance. Capture all the
approved enrolments / registrations and assessments on the system by the
predetermined time. Ensure the compilation and submission of reports. Provide
statistical information weekly, monthly, quarterly etc. Ensure the compilation,
monitoring of academic examination and staff statistics of the college and
submit reports on quarterly basis to management and DHET. Compile monthly,
quarterly and annual reports as requested. Ensure the maintenance and
capturing of inputs captured on COLTECH system and other related systems.
Set up the student system for registration of students and ensure creditability
and reliability. Monitor the capturing, quality control, validation, run procedure,
create file and ensure that entries are submitted on time. Ensure efficient and
effective administration of all academic related student system administration
for programmes, course and qualification. Oversee the load general system,
student programmes, lecturing timetables, assessment marks, class groups,
census dates and academic qualifications curriculum. Maintain calculation
criteria as per guidelines from Head Office. Ensure that MIS licenses are
renewed before expiry dates. Ensure the effective and efficient maintenance of
the TVETMIS. Management of human, physical and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. B Khakhu Tel No: (011) 351 6000
APPLICATIONS : All applications are to be sent via online application link to
https://cjcz83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Scanned Applications must consist of: a duly completed and signed online
version of Z83 form, stating the post you are applying for and the relevant
reference number, a recently updated CV. The communication from HR
Department regarding the requirements for certified documents will be limited
to shortlisted candidates. Incomplete applications or applications received after
the closing date will not be considered. A complete set of application
documents should be submitted separately for every post you wish to apply for.
Set of scanned documents must be attached separately for each post you wish
14
to apply for as per the online application form. Failure to submit the requested
documents will result in your application not being considered. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). No emailed, faxed, posted or hand
delivered applications will be considered. The college reserves the right to
withdraw the posts at any time. Communication will only be entered into with
the shortlisted and successful candidates. All shortlisted candidates may be
subjected to qualification and citizen verification, etc. If you are not contacted
after 60 days of the closing date of the applications, please consider your
application unsuccessful. The Central Johannesburg TVET College is an equal
opportunity employer.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025 at 16:00
POST 31/22 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO:
CJC/SSAM/19/2025
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), plus benefits as applicable in the Public Sector
CENTRE : Central Johannesburg TVET College (Central Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent. An appropriate three (3) year Diploma /
Bachelor’s Degree in Accounting / Financial Management or equivalent
qualification. 3-5 years’ experience in the financial and / or management
accounting environment. Knowledge of the Public Service Financial
legislations, NSFAS regulations, PERSAL, etc. Experience in preparations of
annual financial statements and interaction with external auditors. Computer
literate and competent in Word/Excel/PowerPoint/Outlook/Teams. Good verbal
and written communication skills, presentation and report writing skills. A valid
driver’s licence. Analytical and ability to pay attention to detail. Ability to work
under pressure and willingness to work extended hours when required.
DUTIES : Coordinate, review, analyse and quality assure the financial supporting
information for planning purposes. Coordinate and review the necessary
financial supporting documents required for the strategic and annual
performance planning process. Analyse and quality assure the relevant
financial information required in the evaluation and development of business
and project plans. Check and verify the supporting information for various
financial planning processes. Coordinate, review, analyse and quality assure
the budget preparation process. Develop templates for the collection of budget
information from line functionaries. Align budget statements with the annual
performance plan, strategic plan and national spending priorities. Analyse and
interpret the requirements for the monthly cash flow and adjusted cash flow as
prescribed and recommend corrective action where required. Undertake the
planning and supervise the preparation and consultation process in the
implementation of the estimates for adjustments. Assess where shifting of
funds / virements is required and possible by reviewing expenditure against
budget and make recommendations. Supervise the recording of adjustments
and provide feedback to the relevant components. Provide information for the
preparation of the annual financial statements. Ensure that all shifts / virements
are included in the adjusted budget. Analyse requests for roll overs and make
recommendations in compliance with prescripts (including funds committed but
not spent). Administer college revenue and receivables for student accounts.
Provide internal control over revenue, receivables and expenditure. Improve
cash flow through accelerated debt collection strategies. Handle and resolve
campuses’ queries on student accounts. Assist with the implementation of debt
management policies. Supervise the collection of revenue from debtors.
Compile ad-hoc financial reports. Ensure that accurate and valid tuition fees
are loaded on MIS system. Monitor student fees on student statement for
accuracy. Provide accurate financial and management reports on all projects
undertaken by the college. Supervise staff in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. B Khakhu Tel No: (011) 351 6000
APPLICATIONS : All applications are to be sent via online application link to
https://cjcz83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Scanned Applications must consist of: a duly completed and signed online
version of Z83 form, stating the post you are applying for and the relevant
reference number, a recently updated CV. The communication from HR
Department regarding the requirements for certified documents will be limited
to shortlisted candidates. Incomplete applications or applications received after
the closing date will not be considered. A complete set of application
documents should be submitted separately for every post you wish to apply for.
15
Set of scanned documents must be attached separately for each post you wish
to apply for as per the online application form. Failure to submit the requested
documents will result in your application not being considered. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). No emailed, faxed, posted or hand
delivered applications will be considered. The college reserves the right to
withdraw the posts at any time. Communication will only be entered into with
the shortlisted and successful candidates. All shortlisted candidates may be
subjected to qualification and citizen verification, etc. If you are not contacted
after 60 days of the closing date of the applications, please consider your
application unsuccessful. The Central Johannesburg TVET College is an equal
opportunity employer.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025 at 16:00
POST 31/23 : SENIOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY TECHNICIAN REF NO:
CJC/SIT/20//2025
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08), plus benefits as applicable in the Public Sector
CENTRE : Central Johannesburg TVET College, Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate. Recognised three (03) year Bachelor’s Degree / National
Diploma in Information Technology (IT) (NQF 6) or equivalent. ITIL V3/4
Foundation or COBIT 5. Software, Hardware and Network experience. HCIA-
DATA COM, HCIA STORAGE, MCSE, CCNA will serve as advantage.
Minimum of 3 years in IT support environment. A valid driver’s license. Good
server administration skills. Knowledge and understanding of desktop,
networking and voice communication infrastructure (VoIP), IT security, help
desk operations, PERSAL, ITS/MIS and Pastel systems. Effective customer
relation and good time management, problem solving and interpersonal skills.
Ability to prioritize projects and assignments. Full comprehension of IT second
and third line support. Ability to work under pressure and willingness to work
extended hours when required. A proven record in working successfully with
diverse populations. A positive attitude and ability to plan and adapt to change.
Ability to collaborate effectively with college departments and cross-functional
teams.
DUTIES : Ensure management of service desk and desktop support services. Ensure
installation, maintenance, support of telephone systems and network
infrastructure. Oversee the provision of technical support of the configuration,
installation, repair and replacement of computers/laptops, printers and
telephones. Ensure management and configuration of active directory, DHCP
and WI-FI servers. Ensure the rendering of IT information management
services. Plan, develop and improve computer based information systems,
server administration, security of all technology and network configurations.
Perform system backups. Support, maintain and repair ICT assets (hardware
and software). Compile and submit reports to the IT Assistant Director. Ensure
liaison with the service provider in terms of upgrading of software licences and
related procurement. Facilitate ICT training. Support IT related projects and
any related task as maybe required. Supervise IT Technicians, Financial and
other resources of the unit. Ensure completion of Performance Agreements by
IT Technicians. Support and monitor the performance of IT Technicians.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. B Khakhu Tel No: (011) 351 6000
APPLICATIONS : All applications are to be sent via online application link to
https://cjcz83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Scanned Applications must consist of: a duly completed and signed online
version of Z83 form, stating the post you are applying for and the relevant
reference number, a recently updated CV. The communication from HR
Department regarding the requirements for certified documents will be limited
to shortlisted candidates. Incomplete applications or applications received after
the closing date will not be considered. A complete set of application
documents should be submitted separately for every post you wish to apply for.
Set of scanned documents must be attached separately for each post you wish
to apply for as per the online application form. Failure to submit the requested
documents will result in your application not being considered. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). No emailed, faxed, posted or hand
delivered applications will be considered. The college reserves the right to
withdraw the posts at any time. Communication will only be entered into with
the shortlisted and successful candidates. All shortlisted candidates may be
16
subjected to qualification and citizen verification, etc. If you are not contacted
after 60 days of the closing date of the applications, please consider your
application unsuccessful. The Central Johannesburg TVET College is an equal
opportunity employer.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025 at 16:00
POST 31/24 : COUNCIL SECRETARY (GOVERNING COUNCIL)
(3 Year Contract)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Maluti TVET College
REQUIREMENTS : Recognised National Diploma in Public Administration /Business Management
/ Office Management (NQF Level 6) or equivalent qualification. 3-5 years in
Public Administration environment. Valid driver’s license (except for persons
with disabilities); Competencies and attributes: Knowledge and understanding
of Public Administration. Knowledge of the relevant legislation, policies,
prescripts and procedures. Basic knowledge of Financial Administration.
Administrative, Planning and organizing, financial management, Report
writing, Communication and interpersonal, Problem solving, Computer literacy,
Analytical, Client oriented Project management, Team leadership and People
management.
DUTIES : Provide administrative coordination and support in the regional office Draft all
letters, submissions and memorandums. Preparing supporting documents for
meetings, receiving and distribution of stationery to the relevant officials.
Receive and consolidate monthly reports. Assist in co-ordinate of college inputs
for annual, quarterly, monthly reports, and cash flow statements. Assisting in
the establishment and implementation of effective records and document
management systems in the office of the Principal. Assist in providing
secretariat support to College Council, Council Committees, Academic Board
and other external stakeholders. Coordinate all logistical arrangements for
travelling and meetings etc. Processing of claims for travelling and meetings
etc. Arrange all meetings, proceedings and activities of the above structures.
Compile agenda, minutes, reports and other records of the above structures.
Distribution of relevant documents for meetings of above structures. Assist in
keeping a register of resolutions and supporting all relevant Council
Members/Managers/Officials through continuous correspondence to remind
them of what needs to be done. Safekeeping of approved minutes are signed
off and safely kept. Assist in drafting all presentation, speeches, reports of the
Principal and Council Committees related to meetings of above structures.
Assist in the provision of strategic management, monitoring and evaluation
services. Assist in coordinating operational and strategic planning process.
Assist in coordinate and compile strategic and operational plans. Assist in
facilitating the development and implementation of service delivery
improvement plans and initiatives. Assist in coordinating and compiling
institutional performance and strategic reports. Assist in conducting an
assessment on college effectiveness and efficiency in supporting the
attainment of service delivery objectives. Perform any other duty related to the
post.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Ubisi Tel No: (058) 303 1732
APPLICATIONS` : All applications should be posted, hand delivered or emailed to: Human
Resource Management Human Resource Management Maluti TVET College:
Corporate Office or Maluti TVET College: Corporate Office Private Bag X33,
Corner High & Broster Street, Bethlehem, 9700 Email applications can be
forwarded to this email address: college.council@malutitvet.co.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on a
new Z83 form (effective from 01 January 2021) obtainable from any Public
Service department as well as Maluti TVET College Corporate Office or from
Maluti TVET College Official website www.malutitvet.co.za. The Z83 form must
be signed, initialed and dated. With regards to completion of the Z83 form, Part
A, C and D must be fully completed. Part B, all fields must be completed in full
except Passport number: South African applicants need not provide passport
numbers, an applicant has responded “no” to the question “Are you conducting
business with the state? If yes, (provide the details)”, then it is acceptable for
an applicant to indicate not applicable or leave blank to the question, “In the
event that you are employed in the Public Service, will you immediately
relinquish such business interests?”. “If your profession or occupation requires
official registration, provide date and particulars of registration” – May be
17
completed if your profession requires registration. The questions related to
conditions that prevent re-appointment under part F must be answered.
Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but submit a completed Z83 Form and a detailed
curriculum vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
documents/copies of qualifications and other relevant documents to support
the application on or before the day of the interviews following communication
from HR. Applications received after the closing date will NOT be accepted.
Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a vetting process: criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, and qualifications. Shortlisted candidates will
be subjected to a skills/knowledge/competence test. Foreign qualifications
must be accompanied by a SAQA evaluation report. Immigrants should apply
for work permits before assumption of duty. Maluti TVET College is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. Preference will be given to Indians and
Coloured as per the EE targets of the College. People with disability are
encouraged to apply. It is the College’s intention to promote equity (race,
gender and disability) through the filling of this post. NB: Please consider your
application as unsuccessful should you not be contacted within 60 days from
the closing date of this advertisement. Correspondance will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. Successful candidate may be required to work at
other places as may reasonably be required by the Department and the
College. Maluti TVET College reserves the right to withdraw the mentioned
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/25 : INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (IT) REF NO: CJC/ICT/21//2025
(This is a three (03) year contract College Council post)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), plus benefits as applicable in the Public
Sector
CENTRE : Central Johannesburg TVET College, Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree / National Diploma (NQF Level 6)
in Information Technology or equivalent qualification. ITIL V3/4 Foundation and
Knowledge of ITS System or any MIS system. A minimum of one (1) to two (2)
years’ work experience in the Information and Communication Technology
(ICT) field as an IT Technician. Experience at a technical level in the ICT
environment in the Public Service will serve as an added advantage. Good
customer care and client-oriented focus. Good communication skills (verbal
and written), Troubleshooting and problem-solving skills. Knowledge and
understanding of IT LAN and WAN Support, IT Security. Knowledge of
Office365. Knowledge and troubleshooting PERSAL and ITS system. A valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : Configuration and maintenance of desktops, notebooks (including Apple Mac)
and mobile devices (iPad and tablets). Installing and upgrading applications
(e.g) Microsoft Office 365, Adobe Reader, etc). Creation of user accounts on
Active Directory and email accounts (using O365, Adobe Reader, etc.).
Connect users both network and local printers. Ensure network availability for
all ICT infrastructures. Add computers to the domain. Installation and updating
of antivirus software. Upgrading of operating systems. Liaise with external
vendors and service providers. Analyse and resolve user technical problems.
Receive and prioritise end user support calls and request. Troubleshooting less
complex problems with remote and local users online, telephonically and/or by
visiting user sites to analyse, diagnose and resolve application and operating
system related problems. Update the IT asset register. Maintain records of
licenses permitting the use of specific software. Perform system backups.
Implement appropriate security measures to safeguard data and restricted
access appropriately.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. B Khakhu Tel No: (011) 351 6000
APPLICATIONS : All applications are to be sent via online application link to
https://cjcz83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Scanned Applications must consist of: a duly completed and signed online
version of Z83 form, stating the post you are applying for and the relevant
reference number, (b) a recently updated CV. The communication from HR
Department regarding the requirements for certified documents will be limited
to shortlisted candidates. Incomplete applications or applications received after
the closing date will not be considered. A complete set of application
documents should be submitted separately for every post you wish to apply for.
18
Set of scanned documents must be attached separately for each post you wish
to apply for as per the online application form. Failure to submit the requested
documents will result in your application not being considered. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). No emailed, faxed, posted or hand
delivered applications will be considered. The college reserves the right to
withdraw the posts at any time. Communication will only be entered into with
the shortlisted and successful candidates. All shortlisted candidates may be
subjected to qualification and citizen verification, etc. If you are not contacted
after 60 days of the closing date of the applications, please consider your
application unsuccessful. The Central Johannesburg TVET College is an equal
opportunity employer.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025 at 16:00
POST 31/26 : PLACEMENT CLERK
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Central Office (Malutitvet/PlacementCEN001/2025)
Corporate Office (Malutitvet/PlacementCORP002/2025)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/Grade 12/ Standard 10/NCV Level 4 3 Years
National Diploma/Degree in Management Assistant, Office Management or
Business Management. Minimum of 1-year experience in the administration of
projects. Valid driver’s license; Competencies and attributes: Be able to work
under pressure. Be customer orientated. Attention to detail and excellent
organizational skills. Good communication skills (written and orally). Computer
Literacy (MS Word, MS Excel and MS Power point). Knowledge of SETA’s may
be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Applying for discretionary grants from various funders on behalf of the College.
Ensure the orientation and induction of interns and host employers so that they
understand the work placement process, the level of support available and are
fully equipped to undertake successful work placement. Organise work
placements and support students in the work placement process. To organise
and attend placement visits to monitor the progress of students and deal
effectively with any issues/concerns that arise. To assist with work placement
correspondence and telephone enquiries internally and externally.
Implementing student work-readiness programs including resume writing,
interview preparation workshops, etc. Organizing group networking events for
all partners- students, businesses and stakeholders. Maintaining a current
database of employers and student placements. Writing reports and assisting
with internship and experiential program processes and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GD Mokoena Tel No: (058) 303 1732
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be posted, hand delivered or emailed to: Human
Resource Management Human Resource Management Maluti TVET College:
Corporate Office or Maluti TVET College: Corporate Office Private Bag X33,
Corner High & Broster Street, Bethlehem, 9700 Email applications can be
forwarded to this email address: Hrrecruitment@malutitvet.co.za
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on a
new Z83 form (effective from 01 January 2021) obtainable from any Public
Service department as well as Maluti TVET College Corporate Office or from
Maluti TVET College Official website www.malutitvet.co.za. The Z83 form must
be signed, initialed and dated. With regards to completion of the Z83 form, Part
A, C and D must be fully completed. Part B, all fields must be completed in full
except Passport number: South African applicants need not provide passport
numbers, an applicant has responded “no” to the question “Are you conducting
business with the state? If yes, (provide the details)”, then it is acceptable for
an applicant to indicate not applicable or leave blank to the question, “In the
event that you are employed in the Public Service, will you immediately
relinquish such business interests?”. “If your profession or occupation requires
official registration, provide date and particulars of registration” – May be
completed if your profession requires registration. The questions related to
conditions that prevent re-appointment under part F must be answered.
Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but submit a completed Z83 Form and a detailed
curriculum vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
documents/copies of qualifications and other relevant documents to support
the application on or before the day of the interviews following communication
19
from HR. Applications received after the closing date will NOT be accepted.
Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a vetting process: criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, and qualifications. Shortlisted candidates will
be subjected to a skills/knowledge/competence test. Foreign qualifications
must be accompanied by a SAQA evaluation report. Immigrants should apply
for work permits before assumption of duty. Maluti TVET College is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. Preference will be given to Indians and
Coloured as per the EE targets of the College. People with disability are
encouraged to apply. It is the College’s intention to promote equity (race,
gender and disability) through the filling of this post. NB: Please consider your
application as unsuccessful should you not be contacted within 60 days from
the closing date of this advertisement. Correspondance will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. Successful candidate may be required to work at
other places as may reasonably be required by the Department and the
College. Maluti TVET College reserves the right to withdraw the mentioned
advert.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/27 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT REF
NO: WCCETC/SS/2025/01
Permanent
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Western Cape CET College: Central Office: Bellville
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Grade 12). National Diploma or Degree in Human
Resource Management/Development will be an added advantage. One (1) to
two (2) years relevant experience in Human Resource Management
environment. Knowledge: Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act,
Human Resources legislations and policies, Conditions of Service,
Recruitment and Selection processes, Human Resources Development and
PERSAL. Skills: Good verbal and written communication, Problem solving,
Planning and Organising, Teamwork, Computer Literacy and Ability of work
under pressure. Experience in Public Service Education and Training (PSET)
will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Responsible for Recruitment and Selection processes. Responsible for
Appointments and Transfers. Implementation of all Conditions of Service and
Employee benefits. Processing all types of Service Terminations. Responsible
for personnel and salary administration. Administer the implementation of
Performance Management Development System, Integrated Quality
Management System and assist with coordination of training for staff.
Administration of Training and Development. Accurate recordkeeping of HR
documents. Handling all HR related enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Gwayi Tel No: (021) 180 1025
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be electronically submitted via email to
Recruit@WC.CETC.edu.za
NOTE : Applications received after the closing date or faxed applications will not be
considered. Note: Applications must be submitted on a duly completed Z83
(effective from 01 January 2021) form obtainable from any Public Service
Department or on the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. Applicants are
not required to submit any copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit a fully completed signed Z83 form
and detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents will be submitted by shortlisted candidates. Applications
received after the closing date and those that do not comply with the
requirements will not be considered. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications and national certificates (where applicable) evaluated by
the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The Department reserves the
right not to fill the posts. The successful candidate will be subjected to
personnel suitability checks and other vetting procedures. Applicants are
respectfully informed that correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If notification of an interview is not received within three (3)
months after the closing date, candidates may regard their application as
unsuccessful. The Department will not be liable where applicants use
incorrect/no reference number(s) on their applications. The Western Cape
Community Education and Training College (WCCETC) is an equal opportunity
employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of
the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment
20
Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of WCCETC will be taken
into consideration. People with Disabilities will be accommodated within
reasonable limits. Therefore, preference will be given to candidates whose
appointment will assist the WCCETC in achieving its Employment Equity
targets in terms of the WCCETC’s Employment Equity Plan.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025 @16:00
POST 31/28 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (CORPORATE SERVICES) REF NO:
WCCETC/SS/2025/02
Permanent
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Western Cape CET College: Central Office: Bellville
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Grade 12). National Diploma or Degree in Office
Administration/Management will be an added advantage. One (1) to two (2)
years relevant experience in Administration. Knowledge of relevant legislation,
prescripts, policies and procedures, Basic knowledge of financial
Management, Record management of documents. Computer literacy.
Experience in Public Service Education and Training (PSET) will be an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Provide a clerical support service to the manager. Planning and scheduling of
conferences and travelling arrangements. Perform general financial-related
duties. Contract and document control management. Assist with planning and
organising of corporate services events. Remains up to date regarding
prescripts/ policies and procedures applicable to Corporate Services to ensure
efficient and effective support to the manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Gwayi Tel No: (021) 180 1025
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be electronically submitted via email to
Recruit@WC.CETC.edu.za
NOTE : Applications received after the closing date or faxed applications will not be
considered. Note: Applications must be submitted on a duly completed Z83
(effective from 01 January 2021) form obtainable from any Public Service
Department or on the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. Applicants are
not required to submit any copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit a fully completed signed Z83 form
and detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents will be submitted by shortlisted candidates. Applications
received after the closing date and those that do not comply with the
requirements will not be considered. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications and national certificates (where applicable) evaluated by
the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The Department reserves the
right not to fill the posts. The successful candidate will be subjected to
personnel suitability checks and other vetting procedures. Applicants are
respectfully informed that correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If notification of an interview is not received within three (3)
months after the closing date, candidates may regard their application as
unsuccessful. The Department will not be liable where applicants use
incorrect/no reference number(s) on their applications. The Western Cape
Community Education and Training College (WCCETC) is an equal opportunity
employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of
the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment
Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of WCCETC will be taken
into consideration. People with Disabilities will be accommodated within
reasonable limits. Therefore, preference will be given to candidates whose
appointment will assist the WCCETC in achieving its Employment Equity
targets in terms of the WCCETC’s Employment Equity Plan.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025 @16:00
POST 31/29 : CLEANER REF NO: WCCETC/SS/2025/03
Permanent
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Western Cape CET College: Central Office: Bellville
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10, Basic literacy and numeracy
skills. Experience in a cleaning environment will be advantageous.
21
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Occupational Health and
Safety. Appropriate knowledge with the use of cleaning equipment, cleaning
materials and cleaning detergents, communication verbal and written.
DUTIES : Cleaning of offices, boardroom, kitchen and restrooms. Dusting, sweeping,
scrubbing, mopping, vacuuming, cleaning walls and windows. Emptying bins,
collecting and removing waste papers. Keeping stock of cleaning detergents
and utensils. Safeguarding of cleaning equipment and requesting cleaning
materials. Arranging and preparing refreshments for meetings. Cleaning of
restrooms.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A Sikhosana Tel No: (021) 180 1026
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be electronically submitted via email to
Recruit@WC.CETC.edu.za
NOTE : Applications received after the closing date or faxed applications will not be
considered. Note: Applications must be submitted on a duly completed Z83
(effective from 01 January 2021) form obtainable from any Public Service
Department or on the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. Applicants are
not required to submit any copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit a fully completed signed Z83 form
and detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents will be submitted by shortlisted candidates. Applications
received after the closing date and those that do not comply with the
requirements will not be considered. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications and national certificates (where applicable) evaluated by
the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The Department reserves the
right not to fill the posts. The successful candidate will be subjected to
personnel suitability checks and other vetting procedures. Applicants are
respectfully informed that correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If notification of an interview is not received within three (3)
months after the closing date, candidates may regard their application as
unsuccessful. The Department will not be liable where applicants use
incorrect/no reference number(s) on their applications. The Western Cape
Community Education and Training College (WCCETC) is an equal opportunity
employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of
the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment
Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of WCCETC will be taken
into consideration. People with Disabilities will be accommodated within
reasonable limits. Therefore, preference will be given to candidates whose
appointment will assist the WCCETC in achieving its Employment Equity
targets in terms of the WCCETC’s Employment Equity Plan.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025 @16:00
2025/2027 GRADUATE INTERNSHIP AND WORK INTEGRATED LEARNING PROGRAMME
OTHER POSTS
POST 31/30 : FREE STATE CET CURRICULUM & INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
REGIONAL OFFICE REF NO: DHET/CETC/2025/08
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Information Technology/Office Administration/
Human Resource Management/Financial Management/ Marketing.N6
certificate in Marketing Management/Human Resource Management/
Financial Management/ Management Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L. Tshetlanyane Tel No: (012) 312 5125
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications to: The Director-General,
Department of Higher Education and Training, Private Bag X174, Pretoria,
0001 Attention to Training and Development unit or Hand deliver at: 123
Francis Baard Street (Cnr Sophie De Bruyn and Francis Baard Streets),
Pretoria, Reception area or email it to: Internship2025@dhet.gov.za quoting
the Reference Number as per the advert.
22
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a Z83 form, obtainable from any Public
Service Department website, stating the field of study the intern is applying for
as well as a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae only. It is important to note that it
is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments
in support of the application are submitted by the due date. Failure to submit
the required documents will result in the application not being considered. Due
to the large number of responses anticipated, correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. Applicants applying for more than one field of
study must submit a separate Z83 form as well as the required documentation
mentioned above to the relevant application address provided. Applicants must
meet the following requirements: have satisfied the academic requirements for
the advertised field of study as detailed below, should not have previously
served as a Graduate Intern or contract worker in the Public Service. All
appointments are subject to the verification of educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. It is
the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Applications received after the
closing date or e-mailed will not be considered. Applicants who participated on
the internship programme in the past will be disqualified. Note: “DHET is
committed to providing equal opportunities and practising affirmative action
employment. It is our intention to promote representativity in terms of (race,
gender and disability) in the organisation. People living with disability are
encouraged to apply.’’The Department of Higher Education and Training would
like to invite all qualifying applicants to apply for Graduate Internship and Work
Integrated Learning (WIL) programme for the financial year 2025/2026 to
2026/2027. The Internship Programme is meant to provide work exposure to
graduates and WIL students in their relevant field of studies. The applicants
must be unemployed at the Public Services or never participated in any
Internship programme and must be a South African. Please complete New Z83
form and attach your comprehensive. It is the Department’s intention to
promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this Internship
and Work Integrated Learning programme posts with a candidate whose
appointment will promote representivity in line with the numeric targets as
contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025, Time 15:00
POST 31/31 : FREE STATE CET COLLEGE REF NO: DHET/CETC/2025/09
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Information Technology/Office
Administration/Human Resource Management/Financial Management/
Marketing.N6 certificate in Marketing Management/Human Resource
Management/ Financial Management/ Management Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L. Tshetlanyane Tel No: (012) 312 5125
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications to: The Director-General,
Department of Higher Education and Training, Private Bag X174, Pretoria,
0001 Attention to Training and Development unit or Hand deliver at: 123
Francis Baard Street (Cnr Sophie De Bruyn and Francis Baard Streets),
Pretoria, Reception area or email it to: Internship2025@dhet.gov.za quoting
the Reference Number as per the advert.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a Z83 form, obtainable from any Public
Service Department website, stating the field of study the intern is applying for
as well as a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae only. It is important to note that it
is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments
in support of the application are submitted by the due date. Failure to submit
the required documents will result in the application not being considered. Due
to the large number of responses anticipated, correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. Applicants applying for more than one field of
study must submit a separate Z83 form as well as the required documentation
mentioned above to the relevant application address provided. Applicants must
meet the following requirements: have satisfied the academic requirements for
the advertised field of study as detailed below, should not have previously
23
served as a Graduate Intern or contract worker in the Public Service. All
appointments are subject to the verification of educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. It is
the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Applications received after the
closing date or e-mailed will not be considered. Applicants who participated on
the internship programme in the past will be disqualified. Note: “DHET is
committed to providing equal opportunities and practising affirmative action
employment. It is our intention to promote representativity in terms of (race,
gender and disability) in the organisation. People living with disability are
encouraged to apply.’’The Department of Higher Education and Training would
like to invite all qualifying applicants to apply for Graduate Internship and Work
Integrated Learning (WIL) programme for the financial year 2025/2026 to
2026/2027. The Internship Programme is meant to provide work exposure to
graduates and WIL students in their relevant field of studies. The applicants
must be unemployed at the Public Services or never participated in any
Internship programme and must be a South African. Please complete New Z83
form and attach your comprehensive. It is the Department’s intention to
promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this Internship
and Work Integrated Learning programme posts with a candidate whose
appointment will promote representivity in line with the numeric targets as
contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025, Time 15:00
POST 31/32 : LIMPOPO CET COLLEGE REF NO: DHET/CETC/2025/10
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Information Technology/Public
Management/Human Resource Management/Financial Management/
Marketing/Project Management/ Psychology.N6 certificate in Marketing
Management/Human Resource Management/ Financial Management/
Management Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L. Tshetlanyane Tel No: (012) 312 5125
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications to: The Director-General,
Department of Higher Education and Training, Private Bag X174, Pretoria,
0001 Attention to Training and Development unit or Hand deliver at: 123
Francis Baard Street (Cnr Sophie De Bruyn and Francis Baard Streets),
Pretoria, Reception area or email it to: Internship2025@dhet.gov.za quoting
the Reference Number as per the advert.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a Z83 form, obtainable from any Public
Service Department website, stating the field of study the intern is applying for
as well as a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae only. It is important to note that it
is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments
in support of the application are submitted by the due date. Failure to submit
the required documents will result in the application not being considered. Due
to the large number of responses anticipated, correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. Applicants applying for more than one field of
study must submit a separate Z83 form as well as the required documentation
mentioned above to the relevant application address provided. Applicants must
meet the following requirements: have satisfied the academic requirements for
the advertised field of study as detailed below, should not have previously
served as a Graduate Intern or contract worker in the Public Service. All
appointments are subject to the verification of educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. It is
the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Applications received after the
closing date or e-mailed will not be considered. Applicants who participated on
the internship programme in the past will be disqualified. Note: “DHET is
committed to providing equal opportunities and practising affirmative action
employment. It is our intention to promote representativity in terms of (race,
gender and disability) in the organisation. People living with disability are
encouraged to apply.’’The Department of Higher Education and Training would
24
like to invite all qualifying applicants to apply for Graduate Internship and Work
Integrated Learning (WIL) programme for the financial year 2025/2026 to
2026/2027. The Internship Programme is meant to provide work exposure to
graduates and WIL students in their relevant field of studies. The applicants
must be unemployed at the Public Services or never participated in any
Internship programme and must be a South African. Please complete New Z83
form and attach your comprehensive. It is the Department’s intention to
promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this Internship
and Work Integrated Learning programme posts with a candidate whose
appointment will promote representivity in line with the numeric targets as
contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025, Time 15:00
POST 31/33 : GAUTENG CET CURRICULUM & INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT REF NO:
DHET/CET /2025/11
Branch: Community Education and Training
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Marshalltown (JHB)
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/ Bachelor’s Degree in Public Management/ Office
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L. Tshetlanyane Tel No: (012) 312 5125
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications to: The Director-General,
Department of Higher Education and Training, Private Bag X174, Pretoria,
0001 Attention to Training and Development unit or Hand deliver at: 123
Francis Baard Street (Cnr Sophie De Bruyn and Francis Baard Streets),
Pretoria, Reception area or email it to: Internship2025@dhet.gov.za quoting
the Reference Number as per the advert.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a Z83 form, obtainable from any Public
Service Department website, stating the field of study the intern is applying for
as well as a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae only. It is important to note that it
is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments
in support of the application are submitted by the due date. Failure to submit
the required documents will result in the application not being considered. Due
to the large number of responses anticipated, correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. Applicants applying for more than one field of
study must submit a separate Z83 form as well as the required documentation
mentioned above to the relevant application address provided. Applicants must
meet the following requirements: have satisfied the academic requirements for
the advertised field of study as detailed below, should not have previously
served as a Graduate Intern or contract worker in the Public Service. All
appointments are subject to the verification of educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. It is
the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Applications received after the
closing date or e-mailed will not be considered. Applicants who participated on
the internship programme in the past will be disqualified. Note: “DHET is
committed to providing equal opportunities and practising affirmative action
employment. It is our intention to promote representativity in terms of (race,
gender and disability) in the organisation. People living with disability are
encouraged to apply.’’The Department of Higher Education and Training would
like to invite all qualifying applicants to apply for Graduate Internship and Work
Integrated Learning (WIL) programme for the financial year 2025/2026 to
2026/2027. The Internship Programme is meant to provide work exposure to
graduates and WIL students in their relevant field of studies. The applicants
must be unemployed at the Public Services or never participated in any
Internship programme and must be a South African. Please complete New Z83
form and attach your comprehensive. It is the Department’s intention to
promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this Internship
and Work Integrated Learning programme posts with a candidate whose
appointment will promote representivity in line with the numeric targets as
contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025, Time 15:00
25
POST 31/34 : GITO REF NO: DHET/CS/2025/12
Branch: Corporate Services
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Information Technology N6 certificate in
Information Technology.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L. Tshetlanyane Tel No: (012) 312 5125
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications to: The Director-General,
Department of Higher Education and Training, Private Bag X174, Pretoria,
0001 Attention to Training and Development unit or Hand deliver at: 123
Francis Baard Street (Cnr Sophie De Bruyn and Francis Baard Streets),
Pretoria, Reception area or email it to: Internship2025@dhet.gov.za quoting
the Reference Number as per the advert.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a Z83 form, obtainable from any Public
Service Department website, stating the field of study the intern is applying for
as well as a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae only. It is important to note that it
is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments
in support of the application are submitted by the due date. Failure to submit
the required documents will result in the application not being considered. Due
to the large number of responses anticipated, correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. Applicants applying for more than one field of
study must submit a separate Z83 form as well as the required documentation
mentioned above to the relevant application address provided. Applicants must
meet the following requirements: have satisfied the academic requirements for
the advertised field of study as detailed below, should not have previously
served as a Graduate Intern or contract worker in the Public Service. All
appointments are subject to the verification of educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. It is
the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Applications received after the
closing date or e-mailed will not be considered. Applicants who participated on
the internship programme in the past will be disqualified. Note: “DHET is
committed to providing equal opportunities and practising affirmative action
employment. It is our intention to promote representativity in terms of (race,
gender and disability) in the organisation. People living with disability are
encouraged to apply.’’The Department of Higher Education and Training would
like to invite all qualifying applicants to apply for Graduate Internship and Work
Integrated Learning (WIL) programme for the financial year 2025/2026 to
2026/2027. The Internship Programme is meant to provide work exposure to
graduates and WIL students in their relevant field of studies. The applicants
must be unemployed at the Public Services or never participated in any
Internship programme and must be a South African. Please complete New Z83
form and attach your comprehensive. It is the Department’s intention to
promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this Internship
and Work Integrated Learning programme posts with a candidate whose
appointment will promote representivity in line with the numeric targets as
contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025, Time 15:00
POST 31/35 : GITO INFORMATION & KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT REF NO: DHET/CS
/2025/13
Branch: Corporate Services
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor/Bachelor of Arts in Information Science/ Library and Information
Science.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L. Tshetlanyane Tel No: (012) 312 5125
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications to: The Director-General,
Department of Higher Education and Training, Private Bag X174, Pretoria,
0001 Attention to Training and Development unit or Hand deliver at: 123
26
Francis Baard Street (Cnr Sophie De Bruyn and Francis Baard Streets),
Pretoria, Reception area or email it to: Internship2025@dhet.gov.za quoting
the Reference Number as per the advert.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a Z83 form, obtainable from any Public
Service Department website, stating the field of study the intern is applying for
as well as a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae only. It is important to note that it
is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments
in support of the application are submitted by the due date. Failure to submit
the required documents will result in the application not being considered. Due
to the large number of responses anticipated, correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. Applicants applying for more than one field of
study must submit a separate Z83 form as well as the required documentation
mentioned above to the relevant application address provided. Applicants must
meet the following requirements: have satisfied the academic requirements for
the advertised field of study as detailed below, should not have previously
served as a Graduate Intern or contract worker in the Public Service. All
appointments are subject to the verification of educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. It is
the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Applications received after the
closing date or e-mailed will not be considered. Applicants who participated on
the internship programme in the past will be disqualified. Note: “DHET is
committed to providing equal opportunities and practising affirmative action
employment. It is our intention to promote representativity in terms of (race,
gender and disability) in the organisation. People living with disability are
encouraged to apply.’’The Department of Higher Education and Training would
like to invite all qualifying applicants to apply for Graduate Internship and Work
Integrated Learning (WIL) programme for the financial year 2025/2026 to
2026/2027. The Internship Programme is meant to provide work exposure to
graduates and WIL students in their relevant field of studies. The applicants
must be unemployed at the Public Services or never participated in any
Internship programme and must be a South African. Please complete New Z83
form and attach your comprehensive. It is the Department’s intention to
promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this Internship
and Work Integrated Learning programme posts with a candidate whose
appointment will promote representivity in line with the numeric targets as
contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025, Time 15:00
POST 31/36 : GITO (SERVICES DESK) REF NO: DHET/CS /2025/14
Branch: Corporate Services
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/ Degree in Information Technology
ENQUIRIES : Ms L. Tshetlanyane Tel No: (012) 312 5125
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications to: The Director-General,
Department of Higher Education and Training, Private Bag X174, Pretoria,
0001 Attention to Training and Development unit or Hand deliver at: 123
Francis Baard Street (Cnr Sophie De Bruyn and Francis Baard Streets),
Pretoria, Reception area or email it to: Internship2025@dhet.gov.za quoting
the Reference Number as per the advert.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a Z83 form, obtainable from any Public
Service Department website, stating the field of study the intern is applying for
as well as a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae only. It is important to note that it
is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments
in support of the application are submitted by the due date. Failure to submit
the required documents will result in the application not being considered. Due
to the large number of responses anticipated, correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. Applicants applying for more than one field of
study must submit a separate Z83 form as well as the required documentation
mentioned above to the relevant application address provided. Applicants must
meet the following requirements: have satisfied the academic requirements for
the advertised field of study as detailed below, should not have previously
served as a Graduate Intern or contract worker in the Public Service. All
27
appointments are subject to the verification of educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. It is
the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Applications received after the
closing date or e-mailed will not be considered. Applicants who participated on
the internship programme in the past will be disqualified. Note: “DHET is
committed to providing equal opportunities and practising affirmative action
employment. It is our intention to promote representativity in terms of (race,
gender and disability) in the organisation. People living with disability are
encouraged to apply.’’The Department of Higher Education and Training would
like to invite all qualifying applicants to apply for Graduate Internship and Work
Integrated Learning (WIL) programme for the financial year 2025/2026 to
2026/2027. The Internship Programme is meant to provide work exposure to
graduates and WIL students in their relevant field of studies. The applicants
must be unemployed at the Public Services or never participated in any
Internship programme and must be a South African. Please complete New Z83
form and attach your comprehensive. It is the Department’s intention to
promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this Internship
and Work Integrated Learning programme posts with a candidate whose
appointment will promote representivity in line with the numeric targets as
contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025, Time 15:00
POST 31/37 : GITO (APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT) REF NO: DHET/CS
/2025/15
Branch: Corporate Services
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/ Bachelor of Social Science in Information Technology/
Computer Sciences.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L. Tshetlanyane Tel No: (012) 312 5125
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications to: The Director-General,
Department of Higher Education and Training, Private Bag X174, Pretoria,
0001 Attention to Training and Development unit or Hand deliver at: 123
Francis Baard Street (Cnr Sophie De Bruyn and Francis Baard Streets),
Pretoria, Reception area or email it to: Internship2025@dhet.gov.za quoting
the Reference Number as per the advert.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a Z83 form, obtainable from any Public
Service Department website, stating the field of study the intern is applying for
as well as a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae only. It is important to note that it
is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments
in support of the application are submitted by the due date. Failure to submit
the required documents will result in the application not being considered. Due
to the large number of responses anticipated, correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. Applicants applying for more than one field of
study must submit a separate Z83 form as well as the required documentation
mentioned above to the relevant application address provided. Applicants must
meet the following requirements: have satisfied the academic requirements for
the advertised field of study as detailed below, should not have previously
served as a Graduate Intern or contract worker in the Public Service. All
appointments are subject to the verification of educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. It is
the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Applications received after the
closing date or e-mailed will not be considered. Applicants who participated on
the internship programme in the past will be disqualified. Note: “DHET is
committed to providing equal opportunities and practising affirmative action
employment. It is our intention to promote representativity in terms of (race,
gender and disability) in the organisation. People living with disability are
encouraged to apply.’’The Department of Higher Education and Training would
like to invite all qualifying applicants to apply for Graduate Internship and Work
Integrated Learning (WIL) programme for the financial year 2025/2026 to
2026/2027. The Internship Programme is meant to provide work exposure to
graduates and WIL students in their relevant field of studies. The applicants
28
must be unemployed at the Public Services or never participated in any
Internship programme and must be a South African. Please complete New Z83
form and attach your comprehensive. It is the Department’s intention to
promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this Internship
and Work Integrated Learning programme posts with a candidate whose
appointment will promote representivity in line with the numeric targets as
contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025, Time 15:00
POST 31/38 : INFORMATION KNOWLEDGE AND RECORDS MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DHET/CS/2025/16
Branch: Corporate services
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern and WIL Student
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
R6 659.40 for WIL Student per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Public Administration/ Archives and Records
Management. N6 certificate in Management Assistant.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L. Tshetlanyane Tel No: (012) 312 5125
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications to: The Director-General,
Department of Higher Education and Training, Private Bag X174, Pretoria,
0001 Attention to Training and Development unit or Hand deliver at: 123
Francis Baard Street (Cnr Sophie De Bruyn and Francis Baard Streets),
Pretoria, Reception area or email it to: Internship2025@dhet.gov.za quoting
the Reference Number as per the advert.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a Z83 form, obtainable from any Public
Service Department website, stating the field of study the intern is applying for
as well as a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae only. It is important to note that it
is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments
in support of the application are submitted by the due date. Failure to submit
the required documents will result in the application not being considered. Due
to the large number of responses anticipated, correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. Applicants applying for more than one field of
study must submit a separate Z83 form as well as the required documentation
mentioned above to the relevant application address provided. Applicants must
meet the following requirements: have satisfied the academic requirements for
the advertised field of study as detailed below, should not have previously
served as a Graduate Intern or contract worker in the Public Service. All
appointments are subject to the verification of educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. It is
the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Applications received after the
closing date or e-mailed will not be considered. Applicants who participated on
the internship programme in the past will be disqualified. Note: “DHET is
committed to providing equal opportunities and practising affirmative action
employment. It is our intention to promote representativity in terms of (race,
gender and disability) in the organisation. People living with disability are
encouraged to apply.’’The Department of Higher Education and Training would
like to invite all qualifying applicants to apply for Graduate Internship and Work
Integrated Learning (WIL) programme for the financial year 2025/2026 to
2026/2027. The Internship Programme is meant to provide work exposure to
graduates and WIL students in their relevant field of studies. The applicants
must be unemployed at the Public Services or never participated in any
Internship programme and must be a South African. Please complete New Z83
form and attach your comprehensive. It is the Department’s intention to
promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this Internship
and Work Integrated Learning programme posts with a candidate whose
appointment will promote representivity in line with the numeric targets as
contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025, Time 15:00
29
POST 31/39 : INFORMATION KNOWLEDGE AND RECORDS MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DHET/CS/2025/17
Branch: Corporate services
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Management Assistant/ Records Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L. Tshetlanyane Tel No: (012) 312 5125
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications to: The Director-General,
Department of Higher Education and Training, Private Bag X174, Pretoria,
0001 Attention to Training and Development unit or Hand deliver at: 123
Francis Baard Street (Cnr Sophie De Bruyn and Francis Baard Streets),
Pretoria, Reception area or email it to: Internship2025@dhet.gov.za quoting
the Reference Number as per the advert.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a Z83 form, obtainable from any Public
Service Department website, stating the field of study the intern is applying for
as well as a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae only. It is important to note that it
is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments
in support of the application are submitted by the due date. Failure to submit
the required documents will result in the application not being considered. Due
to the large number of responses anticipated, correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. Applicants applying for more than one field of
study must submit a separate Z83 form as well as the required documentation
mentioned above to the relevant application address provided. Applicants must
meet the following requirements: have satisfied the academic requirements for
the advertised field of study as detailed below, should not have previously
served as a Graduate Intern or contract worker in the Public Service. All
appointments are subject to the verification of educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. It is
the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Applications received after the
closing date or e-mailed will not be considered. Applicants who participated on
the internship programme in the past will be disqualified. Note: “DHET is
committed to providing equal opportunities and practising affirmative action
employment. It is our intention to promote representativity in terms of (race,
gender and disability) in the organisation. People living with disability are
encouraged to apply.’’The Department of Higher Education and Training would
like to invite all qualifying applicants to apply for Graduate Internship and Work
Integrated Learning (WIL) programme for the financial year 2025/2026 to
2026/2027. The Internship Programme is meant to provide work exposure to
graduates and WIL students in their relevant field of studies. The applicants
must be unemployed at the Public Services or never participated in any
Internship programme and must be a South African. Please complete New Z83
form and attach your comprehensive. It is the Department’s intention to
promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this Internship
and Work Integrated Learning programme posts with a candidate whose
appointment will promote representivity in line with the numeric targets as
contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025, Time 15:00
POST 31/40 : CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS REF NO: DHET/CS/2025/18
Branch: Corporate services
Period: Fixed 24 Months Contract
Graduate Intern
STIPEND : R7 860.40 per month for Graduate Intern
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National diploma/Degree in Media Studies/ Business Communication/
Communication Science/ International Communications/ Public Relations/
Journalism/ Public Administration/ Public Affairs/ Local government/ Graphic
Design/ Marketing.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L. Tshetlanyane Tel No: (012) 312 5125
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications to: The Director-General,
Department of Higher Education and Training, Private Bag X174, Pretoria,
0001 Attention to Training and Development unit or Hand deliver at: 123
30
Francis Baard Street (Cnr Sophie De Bruyn and Francis Baard Streets),
Pretoria, Reception area or email it to: Internship2025@dhet.gov.za quoting
the Reference Number as per the advert.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a Z83 form, obtainable from any Public
Service Department website, stating the field of study the intern is applying for
as well as a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae only. It is important to note that it
is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments
in support of the application are submitted by the due date. Failure to submit
the required documents will result in the application not being considered. Due
to the large number of responses anticipated, correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. Applicants applying for more than one field of
study must submit a separate Z83 form as well as the required documentation
mentioned above to the relevant application address provided. Applicants must
meet the following requirements: have satisfied the academic requirements for
the advertised field of study as detailed below, should not have previously
served as a Graduate Intern or contract worker in the Public Service. All
appointments are subject to the verification of educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. It is
the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Applications received after the
closing date or e-mailed will not be considered. Applicants who participated on
the internship programme in the past will be disqualified. Note: “DHET is
committed to providing equal opportunities and practising affirmative action
employment. It is our intention to promote representativity in terms of (race,
gender and disability) in the organisation. People living with disability are
encouraged to apply.’’The Department of Higher Education and Training would
like to invite all qualifying applicants to apply for Graduate Internship and Work
Integrated Learning (WIL) programme for the financial year 2025/2026 to
2026/2027. The Internship Programme is meant to provide work exposure to
graduates and WIL students in their relevant field of studies. The applicants
must be unemployed at the Public Services or never participated in any
Internship programme and must be a South African. Please complete New Z83
form and attach your comprehensive. It is the Department’s intention to
promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this Internship
and Work Integrated Learning programme posts with a candidate whose
appointment will promote representivity in line with the numeric targets as
contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025, Time 15:00
31
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development’s mandate is to ensure that there is
accessible justice system in our vibrant and evolving constitutional democracy. It is responsible,
amongst others, to enable Access to Justice for all, promote Constitutionalism, Rule of Law, Respect for
Human Rights; and to coordinate the State Litigation and Legal Advisory Services. The Department is
therefore presenting an opportunity to dynamic individuals with relevant competencies to join a dynamic
team in its quest to fulfill its mandate and deliver justice services to the people of South Africa.
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post.
CLOSING DATE : 15 September 2025
NOTE : The application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that do
not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for
submission. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications.
All shortlisted candidates for posts will be subjected to a technical and/or
competency assessment. A pre-entry certificate obtained from National School
of Government (NSG) is required before appointment for all SMS positions.
Candidate will complete a financial disclosure form and also be required to
undergo a security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must
provide the Police Clearance certificate from country of origin only when
shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of
vacant posts the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South
Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant
Human Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Reasonable accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities
including where driver’s license is a requirement. Correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not hear from us within 3
months of this advertisement, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Target.
OTHER POSTS
POST 31/41 : SENIOR STATE LAW ADVISER: LP9 REF NO: 25/103/SLA (X8 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 195 110 – R1 859 814 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Office of the State Law Advisor: Cape Town/ Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : LLB Degree or recognized 4 year Legal qualification; Admission as an Attorney
or Advocate; At least 8 years appropriate post qualification litigation/ advisory
experience; A post graduate qualification will be an advantage; Knowledge of
particular aspects of the Law; Knowledge and understanding of Constitutional
Law, Human Rights and the Constitution of South Africa, practical experience
in the drafting of Bills; Knowledge of the Public Service, Public Finance
Management Act and Treasury Regulations. Skills and Competencies: Legal
research and drafting; Dispute resolution; Analytical thinking; Communication
skills (written and verbal); Presentation and facilitation skills; Financial
management skills; Computer literacy; Strategic planning capabilities and
leadership skills; Ability to work as a team, individually and under pressure.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide the certification and drafting of Bills;
Scrutinise subordinate legislation for the National Executive and other organ of
state; Scrutinize and provide legal opinion on International Agreements,
treaties and related matters; Mentor, advice and guide juniors/lower level
production employees; Provide effective people management.
32
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M. Mokoena Tel No: (012) 744 2026
APPLICATIONS : Address: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal address: The Human Resources: Department of Justice and
Constitutional Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 or Physical
address: Application Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum
Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 31/42 : STATE LAW ADVISER: LP7-LP8 REF NO: 25/102/SLA (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R932 904 – R1 539 321 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Office of the State Law Advisor: Cape Town/Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : LLB Degree or recognized 4 year legal qualification; At least 5 years
appropriate post qualification litigation / advisory experience; Admission as an
Attorney or Advocate; A post graduate legal qualification will be an added
advantage; Knowledge of particular aspects of the Law; Knowledge of
Constitutional Law, Administrative Law, Human Rights Law and the
Constitution of South Africa; Knowledge of the Public Finance Management
Act, Public Service, Treasury Regulations; Knowledge of practical experience
in the drafting of Bills; Skills and Competencies: Legal research and drafting
skills; Interpersonal relations; Project management skills; Problem solving and
decision making skills; Good communication skills (verbal and written);
Computer literacy; Planning and organizing skills; Ability to work under
pressure and meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide the preliminary opinions, certification of Bills
and advice on legislative drafting; Scrutinize subordinate legislation for the
National Departments and other organs of state; Scrutinize and provide legal
opinion on international agreements and related matters; Render legal
opinions as per the instructions received from National Departments and other
organs of state.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Mokoena Tel No: (012) 744 2026
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address:
Application Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Street, Pretoria. or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 31/43 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LANGUAGE SERVICES REF NO: 25/84/CA
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification (NQF level 6)/ Degree as recognized by SAQA in
Translation/Language Practice/ BA in Languages/Linguistics; A minimum of 3
years’ experience of which 3 years should be at managerial (Assistant Director)
level; Knowledge of relevant Legal Frameworks and the Constitution;
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service: Financial Management and regulatory framework/ guidelines,
the Public Service Act, the Public Service Regulations; Treasury Regulations
and the Public Finance Management Act. Skills and Competencies: Applied
strategic thinking; Applied technology; Budgeting and financial management;
Communication and information management; Continuous improvement;
Citizen focus and responsiveness; Developing others; Diversity management;
Impact and influence; Managing interpersonal conflict and resolving problems;
Planning and organising; Decision making; Project management; Team
leadership; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage the development of language and Court
interpreting strategies and policies; Monitor performance on the
implementation of language and court interpreting services; Facilitate language
policy awareness; Manage language service stakeholder and customer
relations; Manage human, finance and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MD Modibane Tel No: (012) 315 1668
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resource: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001. Or Physical Address:
33
Application Box, First Floor, Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Building, Pretoria, 0001 or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 31/44 : SENIOR AUDITOR: COMPUTER AUDIT AND DECISION SUPPORT REF
NO: 25/76/DG
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) Degree in Auditing/Accounting or
equivalent; A minimum of 1 year experience in Auditing; Knowledge and
understanding of Public Finance Management Act, relevant governance
prescripts, including Treasury Regulations and interpretation of statues. Skills
and Competencies: Good communication skills (verbal and written); Creative
thinking; Customer service orientation; Problem solving and analysis; Self-
management; Financial management; Computer literacy; Planning and
organizing; Interpersonal skills; Ability to work in a team.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Control the adequacy and effectiveness of internal
controls in the IT environment; Identify application controls (input processing
and output controls); Evaluate integrity, availability and security of
management information; Render operational administrative support.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Chauke Tel No: (012) 315 1329
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001.or Physical address: Application
Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329 Pretorius
Street, Pretoria or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 31/45 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: 25/VA32/NW
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA in Financial
Management/Public Management/Administration/Auditing/Cost
Management/Supply Chain Management/Logistics/Purchasing
Management/Business Management/Financial Accounting; A minimum of 3
years’ experience in Supply Chain Management; Knowledge and
understanding of Financial Management and regulatory framework/guidelines,
prescripts, the Public Service Act, the Public Service Regulations, Treasury
Regulation, Departmental Financial Instructions, the Public Finance
Management Act, Supply Chain Management, Interpretation and application of
policies, prescripts and procedures; Knowledge of assets management
framework and policies, Basic Accounting System (BAS).Skills and
competencies: Good communication skills; Creative thinking; Citizen Service
Orientation; Decision making; Diversity citizenship; Problem analysis; Planning
and organizing skills; Ability to work in a team; Technical Proficiency, Computer
literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Administer and implement the Supply Chain demand
management framework and policies; Render contract administration services;
Administer asset disposal; Update the asset register; Render general clerical
support services; Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. PM Seletedi Tel No: (018) 397 7088/7106
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at 22
Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mafikeng or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 31/46 : SENIOR HUMAN RESOUCE OFFICER REF NO: 25/VA30/NW
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade12/ NQF level 4 qualification as recognized by SAQA, A minimum of 3
years working experience in a Human Resource Management environment at
a clerical level, Knowledge of PERSAL System, Human Resource
Management Directives/Policies, Knowledge and understanding of the Human
34
Resource Management and Performance System, Knowledge of the Public
Service statutory framework, Financial Management and regulatory
framework/guidelines, the Public Service Act, the Public Service Regulations,
Employment Equity Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act and Treasury
Regulations. Skills and competencies: Good communication skills (verbal and
written); Computer literacy; Creative thinking; Citizen Service Orientation;
Decision making; Diversity citizenship; Problem solving and analysis.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Supervise and undertake the implementation and
maintenance of attraction, recruitment, selection, appointment and employees
administration; Supervise and undertake the implementation and maintenance
of employee compensation, general conditions of service benefit and
incentives; Supervise and undertake the implementation and maintenance of
leave matters; Supervise and undertake the implementation and maintenance
of human capital termination and administration; Provide effective people
management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. PM Seletedi Tel No: (018) 397 7088/7106
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at 22
Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mafikeng or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 31/47 : STATE ACCOUNTATANT REF NO: 25/VA31/NW
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma/ Degree in Financial Management or equivalent
qualification; A minimum of 1 year relevant experience in a financial
accounting/management environment; Knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act, Treasury Regulations; Knowledge of the Department of
Justice and Constitutional Development and its Third Party Fund functions and
services will serve as a recommendation. Skills and Competencies: Planning
and organizing; Problem solving and decision-making skills; Ability to interpret
and apply policies; Computer literacy; Good Communication skills (verbal and
written).
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide training and on-site support; Provide support
with EFT Deployment; Implement system and roll out; Manage Third Party
Funds documentation; Facilitate audits.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. PM Seletedi Tel No: (018) 397 7088/7106
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at 22
Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mafikeng or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 31/48 : SENIOR COURT INTERPRETER REF NO: 25/VA29/NW
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate’s Office: Potchefstroom
REQUIRMENTS : NQF Level 4/ Grade 12 and National Diploma in Legal Interpreting or
equivalent qualification in the field of languages and a minimum of three years
practical experience in court interpreting; OR Grade 12 with 10 year’s practical
experience in court interpreting; A valid driver’s license; Proficiency in English
and in two or more indigenous languages. Language Proficiency: Setswana,
English, Afrikaans, Isizulu or IsiXhosa. Skills and Competencies: Good
communication skills (verbal and written); Computer literacy; Listening skills;
Interpersonal relation and problem solving; Planning and organising; Analytical
thinking skills; Time management; Confidentiality; Ability to work under
pressure.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas; Render interpreting services. Translate legal
documents and exhibits; Develop terminology; Assist with reconstruction of
Court Records; Perform specific line and administrative support functions;
Perform specific line and administrative support functions; Assist with capturing
on ICMS; Supervise Court Interpreters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. PM Seletedi Tel No: (018) 397 7088/7106
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at 22
35
Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mafikeng or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 31/49 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FLEET MANAGEMENT REF NO: 25/20/KZN
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Durban
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA in Financial Management/
Public Management/ Administration/ Auditing/ Cost Management/ Supply
Chain Management/ Logistics/ Purchasing Management/ Business
Management/ Financial Accounting; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in
Supply Chain Management (Fleet); Knowledge and understanding of Financial
Management and regulatory framework/guidelines, prescripts, the Public
Service Act, the Public Service Regulations, Treasury Regulation,
Departmental Financial Instructions , the Public Finance Management Act,
Supply Chain Management, Interpretation and application of policies,
prescripts and procedures; Knowledge of assets management framework and
policies, Basic Accounting System (BAS). Skills and Competencies: Computer
literacy (MS Office and Excel); Good communication skills (verbal and written);
Planning and organizing skills; Project management skills; Client orientation
and customer focus skills; Financial management skills; Presentation and
facilitation skills; Good interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide administrative support services relating to
transport/fleet; Manage records and register vehicle mileage usage; Monitor
vehicle maintenance and compliance services; Provide guidance on financial
and supply chain management services (Fleet related); Provide effective
people management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M.P. Khoza Tel No: (031) 372 3000
APPLICATIONS : Quote the relevant reference number and courier your application to: Physical
address: Recruitment, First Floor, 2 Devonshire Place Off Anton Lembede
Street, Durban or drop-off on the above address or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 31/50 : SECRETARY: LEGAL PROCESS REF NO: 25/93/LD
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (with typing as a subject or Secretarial Certificate or any other training
course /qualification that will enable the person to perform the work
satisfactorily); Knowledge of Financial provisioning and / or Administration
procedure and processes; Knowledge of procedure and processes applied in
Office Management; Understanding of confidentiality in Government and
relevant legislation. Skills and Competencies: Communication skills (verbal &
written); Computer literacy; Planning and organizing; Intermediate typing skills
(ability to do high speed typing and utilize software packages effectively to type
more advanced documents which include tables, graphs); Ability to correctly
interpret relevant documentation; Computer literacy; Good interpersonal
relations and customer service orientation.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Make travel arrangements, process travel and
subsistence claims for the manager and members of the unit; Render effective
and efficient secretarial services; Provide general clerical office administration;
Coordinate unit activities, inputs and compile various reports; Manage the diary
of the Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Mokoena Tel No: (012) 744 2026
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address:
Application Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Street, Pretoria OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
36
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF MINERAL AND PETROLEUM RESOURCES
The Department of Mineral and Petroleum Resources (DMPR) is an equal opportunity; affirmative action
employer and it is its intention to promote representivity in the Public Sector through the filling of this
post. Persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity are encouraged to
apply, particularly persons with disabilities and women interested in senior management positions. An
indication of such, in this regard will be vital in the processing of applications.
APPLICATIONS : NB: Kindly note that the Department provides for four methods of submitting a
job application, namely: Post, courier, hand delivery and email. Applicants are
urged to choose/ utilise one of the methods provided above. You may forward
your application, quoting reference, addressed to: The Director-General,
Department of Mineral and Petroleum Resources, Private Bag X59, Arcadia,
0007. Alternatively, applications may also be hand delivered to Trevenna
Campus, corner Meintjies and Francis Baard Street, former Schoeman.
Another option is to submit application through email as a single scanned
document/ One PDF attachment to the email addresses specified for each
position. (Kindly note that the emailed applications and attachments should not
exceed 15mb). General enquiries may be brought to the attention of Ms T
Gumede Tel No: (012) 444- 3319.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the recent Z83 application form which came
into effect from 01 January 2021 as issued by the Minister of Public Service
Administration in line with regulation 10 of the Public Service Regulations, 2016
as amended, which is obtainable online from www.gov.za and
www.dpsa.gov.za. All sections of the Z83 must be completed (In full, accurately,
legibly, honestly, initialled, signed and dated), and accompanied by a
comprehensive/ detailed Curriculum Vitae only. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit the Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents will be required from shortlisted
candidates only on or before the day of the interview. The Curriculum Vitae
must have at least three (3) reference persons and their contacts. Failure to
provide accurate information on a job application as well as incomplete
information will result in a disqualification. Job applicants in possession of a
foreign qualification(s), must also provide an evaluation certificate obtainable
from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). If an invitation for an
interview is not received within three (3) months after the closing date, please
regard your application as unsuccessful. Requirements stated on the
advertised posts are minimum inherent requirements; therefore, criteria for
shortlisting will depend on the proficiency of the applications received.
Shortlisted candidates will be assessed through practical exercise and an oral
interview. Applicants must note that personnel suitability checks (PSC) will be
conducted on the short-listed applicants, therefore will be required to give
consent in terms of the POPI Act in order for the Department to conduct this
exercise. PSC includes security screening and vetting, qualification
verification, criminal records, financial records checks. Applicants who do not
comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well as application
received after the closing date will not be considered. If an applicant wishes to
withdraw an application, He/ She must do so in writing. It is also important to
note that the Department reserves the right not to fill any advertised post at any
stage of the recruitment process.
OTHER POSTS
POST 31/51 : SENIOR VETTING INVESTIGATOR REF NO: 037
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Security Risk Management/ Safety and Security
Management/ Social Science/ Criminology /Criminal Psychology/ Forensic
Investigation/Policing/Police Science/ Law (NQF 6) PLUS minimum of 3 year’s
investigation experience plus certificate in Security Vetting
(SSA/SAPS/SANDF) and Driver’s licence: Knowledge of: Departmental
policies, MISS document, Record management. Security Risks. Security
Vetting, related Acts, Vetting legislation and procedures and strategies. Skills:
37
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making, programme and project
management. Team leadership. Analytical. Creativity. Self-management.
Financial management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication
skills. Computer skills, Delegation and developmental of others. Planning,
organising and execution. Ability to management conflict. Diplomacy.
Language proficiency. Listening and insight skills. Interviewing skills. Thinking
Demand: Analytical thinking and creativity.
DUTIES : Conduct vetting field-work investigations. Provide inputs for the development
and implementation of policies, guidelines, norms and standards in vetting
investigations. Ensure effective communication channels and systems
between the Department and the State Security Agency and other related
agencies. Administer files and partake in task teams dealing with matters
related to vetting projects/ processes. Provide managerial activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Jacobs at 079 693 8628
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment03@dmpr.gov.za
NOTE : Indian, Coloured or White female and persons with disabilities are encouraged
to apply. Note: Candidate will undergo practical exercise and integrity
assessments. Candidates who are applying online are requested to upload one
document as attachment on a PDF format.
POST 31/52 : DRIVER/ MESSENGER REF NO: 038
Office of the Deputy Minister: Mineral and Petroleum Resources
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 with no experience and a valid driver’s licence. PLUS the following
key competencies: Knowledge of: Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public
Service, Broad knowledge and understanding of the functional areas covered
by the executive authority’s portfolio, working knowledge of the political and
parliamentary processes in South Africa Skills: computer literacy.
Communication skills (verbal and written). Creativity and innovation.
Interpersonal skills, Thinking Demand: Logical. Creative/Innovative thinker.
Objective. Accurate. Diplomatic.
DUTIES : Collect and deliver documents, Transport employees in the office of the Deputy
Minister and guests and special advisors of the Deputy Minister, Maintain
knowledge on the policies and procedures that applies in the work
environment. Render a general support function in the office of the Deputy
Minister.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LM Maluleka at 082 303 7721
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment04@dmpr.gov.za
NOTE : Indian, Coloured or White male and persons with disabilities are encouraged
to apply Note: Candidate will undergo practical exercise and integrity
assessments. Candidates who are applying online are requested to upload one
document as attachment on a PDF format.
POST 31/53 : FOOD AIDE SERVICE REF NO: 039
Office of the Deputy Minister: Mineral and Petroleum Resources
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : ABET 2 (NQF 1) with no experience PLUS the following key competencies:
Knowledge of: Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public Service portfolio,
Working knowledge of the political and parliamentary processes in South Africa
Skills: communication and diplomatic skills, Thinking Demand: Analytical
thinking and Creativity.
DUTIES : Clean kitchen utensils and equipment, provide catering support services. Keep
stock of kitchen utensils and equipment, apply hygiene and safety measures,
maintain quality control measures of all food provided. Removal of garbage
disposal.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LM Maluleka at 082 303 7721
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment05@dmre.gov.za
NOTE : Indian, Coloured or White male and persons with disabilities are encouraged
to apply Note: Candidate will undergo practical exercise and integrity
assessments. Candidates who are applying online are requested to upload one
document as attachment on a PDF format.
38
ANNEXURE E
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 15 September 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success and the National
Treasury ICT unit was unable to assist. The applicant’s profile on the e-
Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83 and it is the responsibility
of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or their applications
will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note. Certain documentation
will still be required to be uploaded on the system such as copies of all
qualifications including Grade 12, ID, etc., these documents need not be
certified at point of application, however certification will be required prior to
attending the interview. Please note: All shortlisted candidates will be subjected
to two assessments. The first assessment will be a technical exercise that
intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, while the second
assessment will be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment, the logistics of
which will be communicated by the Department. It should be noted that the
National Treasury does not support the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in any
of its recruitment and selection processes. Successful completion of the
Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the
National School of Government, available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS positions. For SMS
positions certain candidates may be required to undergo additional DPSA
competency assessments. All qualifications, criminal and SA citizenship
checks will be conducted on all short-listed candidates and, where applicable,
additional checks will be conducted in line with the new DPSA Directive
effective 01 April 2024. By submitting your application, it also means you
consent to the National Treasury processing your information for Human
Resources Management purposes. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level certificates) evaluated
by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at your own expense.
Upon appointment, successful candidates will be required to sign a
Performance Agreement within 3 months from date of appointment and for
candidates whose appointment exceeds 12 calendar months will be appointed
on probation for the period of twelve (12) calendar months excluding leave
taken as prescribed by Public Service Regulation 68. The status of your
application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system. However, if you have
not received feedback from the National Treasury within 3 months of the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Note: The
National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned posts,
withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. All queries
must be submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment
Support Team on Recruitment.Enquiries@treasury.gov.za The National
Treasury is compliant with the requirements of POPIA.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the following posts were advertised on Public
Service Vacancy Circular 27 dated 1 August 2025 with the closing date of 18
August 2025. We hereby request for an extension of the closing date for the
following posts:(1) Chief People Officer (Ref No: S002/2025); (2) Director:
Public Finance x3 (Higher Education & Training and Economic Services (Ref:
S015/2025); (3) Deputy Director: Public Finance (Ref No: S018/2025); (4)
Deputy Director: SCM Governance, Monitoring and Compliance (Ref No:
S019/2025); (5) Assistant Director: SCM Risk and Performance (Ref No:
S020/2025); (6) Senior State Accountant: Personnel Remuneration (Ref No:
39
S016/2025) and (7) Administrative Officer: Office of the Director-General (Ref
No: S017/2025). The closing date has been extended to 03 September 2025
at 12:00 pm (Midday).
The following posts were also advertised on Public Service Vacancy Circular
28 dated 8 August 2025, with the closing date of 25 August 2025. We hereby
request an extension of the closing date for the following posts: (1) Chief
Director: Education and Related Departments (Ref No: S022/2025); (2) Chief
Director: Health and Social Development (Ref No: S023/2025); (3) Chief
Director: Urban Development and Infrastructure (Ref No: S024/2025); (4)
Director: Fiscal Research (Ref No: S026/2025); (5) Director: SCM Governance,
Monitoring and Compliance X2 (Ref No: S021/2025); (6) Assistant Director:
Public Finance (Ref No: S025/2025). The closing date has been extended to
05 September 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday).
The following posts were also advertised on Public Service Vacancy Circular
29 dated 15 August 2025, with the closing date of 01 September 2025. We
hereby request an extension of the closing date for the following posts: (1)
Chief Director: Provincial Budget Analysis (Ref No: S027/2025). The closing
date has been extended to 03 September 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday).
The following posts were also advertised on Public Service Vacancy Circular
30 dated 22 August 2025, with the closing date of 08 September 2025. We
hereby request an extension of the closing date for the following posts: (1)
Director: Provincial Budget Analysis x2 (Ref No: S028/2025); (2) Deputy
Director: Provincial Budget Analysis (Ref No: S029/2025); (3) Assistant
Director MFMA Implementation (Ref No: S033/2025); (4) Assistant Director:
Budgets Administration (Ref No: S034/2025). The closing date has been
extended to 10 September 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday).
OTHER POSTS
POST 31/54 : EXECUTIVE OFFICE MANAGER REF NO: S036/2025
Division: Office Of the Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To provide a high-level executive support function to the Director-
General.
SALARY : R1 059 105 - R1 247 774 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or Bachelor’s Degree or Bachelor of Technology (equivalent to
NQF level 7) in Public Administration or Business Management, A minimum 4
years’ experience of which 2 years should be on an Assistant Director level or
equivalent obtained in the management of an executive administrative office,
Knowledge and experience of the broader Public Service Policy Framework
pertaining to finance and human resource related practices, In-depth
knowledge and experience of the operational set-up of an executive office,
Knowledge and experience of policy analysis and interpretation.
DUTIES : Administrative Support: Administer the DG’s meeting schedule, Administer the
DG’s meeting related correspondence, Administer the DG’s diary , Facilitation
and oversight of the receiving of the DG’s guests Ensure all meeting
documentation is available to the DG, Administer the DG’s travel
arrangements, Process memos and maintain the filing system as well as
sending and receiving correspondence and compiling presentations for
clarification, Coordinate the DG’s land travel plans, Provide the DG with
general administrative support. Financial Management: Administration of the
DG’s claims, Arrange travel bookings in alignment with travelling plans as
prescribed by financial prescripts, rules and regulations, Facilitate and have
oversight over the provision of DG’s vehicle and driver. Legislation, Policies
and Prescripts: Keep up to date with the latest procedures, policies and
processes in compliance with operational effectiveness of the office, Apply the
relevant internal Departmental prescripts and other legislation in the smooth
operation of the office. Stakeholder Engagement: Provide support to the DG’s
stakeholder engagement programme, Coordinate the DG’s stakeholder
engagement events and liaise with the respective event partners internally and
externally.
ENQUIRIES : Only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
40
POST 31/55 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LOCAL GOVERNMENT BUDGET ANALYSIS REF
NO: S037/2025
Division: Intergovernmental Relations
Purpose: To initiate development of budget formats and regulations, building
capacity in provincial treasuries and non-delegated municipalities in the
analysis, implementation and monitoring of municipal budgets.
SALARY : R1 059 105 – R1 247 574 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or Bachelor’s Degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Accounting
or Finance or Economics, A minimum 4 experience of which 2 years should
have been on an Assistant Director level or equivalent obtained in budget
analysis, dissemination of financial reports, Knowledge of report writing,
monitoring and evaluation of budgets, Knowledge and experience of the
regulatory framework on budgets and financial management within
municipalities and provinces.
DUTIES : Budget Preparation and Support: Coordinate the budget preparation
processes of non-delegated municipalities in accordance with the MFMA,
Monitor, assess and provide feedback on budgets and related documentation
of non-delegated municipalities in alignment with the provisions of the
Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA), Arrange logistical and planning
processes for budget visits to non-delegated municipalities, Advice provincial
treasuries on budgets and financial management reforms in accordance with
the Municipal Financial Management Act. Budget Implementation and
Monitoring: Monitor service delivery and expenditure trends within municipal
budgets, Provide support on budgetary and financial management to non-
delegated municipalities, Initiate the follow-up on municipal budgets, Integrated
Development Plans, in-year reports, service delivery and budget
implementation plans, performance management plans and annual reports,
Maintain a financial and service delivery database on budget reforms
pertaining to the delegated municipalities, Assist with the compilation and
analysis of reports on municipalities to internal and external stakeholders, i.e,
DG: National Treasury, Minister of Finance, TCF, Budget Council, PCC and
Cabinet. Intergovernmental Co-ordination: Monitor submission of financial and
service delivery data for the annual IGFR, MTBPS, Budget Review and other
publications, Evaluate and provide feedback on reviews and structuring of
grants allocations. Financial Management and Budget Reform: Promote
effective budgeting and financial management in non-delegated municipalities,
Advice non-delegated municipalities and Provincial Treasuries on in-year
financial reports and verify data, Monitor In-Year Financial Reports, Annual
Financial Statements and Annual Reports by non-delegated municipalities and
Provincial Treasuries, Follow-up on budget and financial returns from non-
delegated municipalities and ensure Council-endorsed documents, Assess the
SDBIP’s of non-delegated municipalities in alignment with the annual budget
of non-financial targets and indicators. Stakeholder Engagement: Support
performance plans, budget analysis, and annual review of strategy, Engage
municipalities and encourage them to submit MFMA support documentation
timeously.
ENQUIRIES : Only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 31/56 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF NO:
S031/2025
Division: Office of the Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To facilitate the development and implementation of Department’s
operational plans in the monitoring, evaluation and reporting on the
departmental annual performance and operational plans against planned
performance compliance in alignment with the reporting regulatory framework.
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required, with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent to NQF
level 6) or Bachelor’s Degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Public or Business
Administration or Management, A post-graduate degree will be an added
advantage, A minimum 4 years’ experience of which 2 years should be at an
Assistant Director level or equivalent obtained in strategic monitoring and
planning of business in alignment with operation requirements, Knowledge and
41
experience of the consolidation of Departmental Performance and Strategic
Plans, Knowledge and experience of the Governments Policy Framework,
Knowledge of strategic management and policy analysis, Ability to evaluate
and analyse information for policy development and application of policies.
DUTIES : Departmental Strategic and Annual Performance Plans: Co-ordinate the
development, implementation and maintenance of the Departmental Annual
Performance Plan framework and divisional operational plans, Analyse and
assess strategic and annual performance plans for the correct alignment,
thereof, Assist in the development and implementation of performance
indicators and measurements for the Department, Assist in the compilation of
a comprehensive feedback report outlining discrepancies that must be
addressed and integrated in future Strategic and Annual Performance Plans.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting: Provide inputs to systems and tools for
the utilisation in the monitoring and evaluation of the Department’s
performance and operations management framework, Monitor and evaluate
the reporting framework and report on the Department’s performance in
compliance with the relevant regulatory requirements, Coordinate the
Departmental evaluation mechanism for strategic and operational
programmes, Monitor progress against strategic and annual performance
plans of business units and performance assessment action plans. Policy
Development, Research and Benchmarking: Assist in the development and
implementation of best practices planning, monitoring and reporting systems
and mechanisms, Assist in the development, implementation and review of a
governance framework for quality assurance, oversight and performance
standards, Monitor the implementation of performance guidelines and
frameworks and advice stakeholders accordingly, Coordinate the
implementation of annual outcomes and impact reporting. Stakeholder
Engagement: Engage internal and external stakeholders on the
implementation plans pertaining to planning, monitor evaluation and reporting,
Engage with stakeholders in the coordination and progress of the
implementation of developmental and process enhancements, Engage with
strategic partners in the support of implementation processes pertaining to
monitoring, evaluation and reporting outcomes, Contribute to the governance
of the Departmental Strategic, Annual Performance and Operational Plans, for
a streamlined process.
ENQUIRIES : Only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 31/57 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PLANNING AND PERFORMANCE REF NO:
S032/2025
Division: Office of the Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To manage planning, monitoring and evaluation of projects in
National Treasury to ensure alignment of planned performance with project
outcomes and compliance with regulatory frameworks. Utilising the prescribed
methodologies and align with the objectives of the National Treasury and
developing a culture of knowledge sharing by maintaining a web-based
projects management planning and communication platform.
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or Bachelor’s Degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Business
Management or Project Management or equivalent qualifications, A minimum
4 years’ experience is required of which 2 years should be on at an Assistant
Director level or equivalent level obtained in Project Management principles
and applicable methodology, Knowledge and experience of business
processes, policies and procedures.
DUTIES : Project Management in planning, monitoring and evaluation: Consolidate NT
projects in project register with the required monitoring and evaluation criteria,
Maintain the document repository for projects, generate executive dashboards
and ensures that projects are reported on quarterly and annually, Manage the
projects dashboards and set up project management and communication tools
, Institute awareness and compliance in terms of project planning, monitoring
and evaluation within the National Treasury , Monitor and evaluate project
progress against quarterly and annual planning and budget schedules,
Evaluate identified projects’ progress and impact quarterly and annually.
Project Planning: Assist in the development of the Annual Performance Plan to
ensure that large projects are aligned to the Outcomes of the department,
42
Assist in the development of Divisional Operational Plans to ensure large
projects are aligned to outputs of divisions, Assist in the development of Chief
Directorate Operational Plans to ensure that all projects are registered and
integrated into the departmental planning processes, Assist in the quarterly and
annual monitoring to ensure project monitoring alignment with the Annual
Performance Report, Divisional Operational Reports and Chief Directorate
Operational Reports. Project Reporting: Provide quarterly reports on project
progress to Management and Audit Committee, Provide easy accessibility of
information and accessible formats in compliance with knowledge
management practices, Consolidate high-level project information for reporting
purposes, Verify and monitor the correctness of project information in
collaboration with the SPM&E monitoring process. Stakeholder engagement:
Provide inputs in the development of a customised frameworks for the National
Treasury, Engage stakeholders on project progress and advice on areas of
improvement, Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in the
enhancement of project planning, reporting and evaluation, Coordinate
stakeholder engagement and feedback sessions in terms of project progress.
ENQUIRIES : Only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 31/58 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TRANSPORT, DEFENCE & GENERAL SECTORS
REF NO: S035/2025
Division: Asset And Liability Management Division (ALM)
Purpose: To exercise oversight over Schedule 2 and 3B national government
business enterprises (SOEs) in the Transport, Defence and General Sectors
and participate in and inform policy making in respect of the restructuring of
SOEs in the Transport, Defence and General Sectors.
SALARY : R582 444 – R686 091 per annum, (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or Bachelor’s Degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Finance or
Economics, A minimum 3 years’ experience obtained in analyzing financial
statements and corporate plans, Knowledge and experience of financial
management, strategy and economic regulation, Knowledge of the
government’s broader regulatory framework on State Owned Companies.
DUTIES : Restructuring of SOEs: Assist with the analysis and the identification of
restructuring needs within SOEs pertaining to Transport, Defence and General
Sectors, Assist with the reviewing of restructuring and turnaround plans for
SOEs in the sectors, Participate in the restructuring of SOEs in in conjunction
with other departments. Financial Analysis and Oversight: Assist with the
analysis of financial statements and corporate plans and engage entities and
other departments, Analyse the correct alignment of corporate plans of SOEs
and their policy objectives and industry trends, Assist with the analysis and
reviewing of SOEs and present draft submissions in alignment with the
prescribed legislation on applications submitted from SOEs, Review SOEs
submissions and analysis of Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF)
and adjustment of budget applications. Review of Contingent Liabilities: Assist
with the analysis of requests for guarantee from SOEs and present draft
responses for consideration, Participate in fora and monitor compliance to
guarantee conditions by entities. Industry and Sector Research: Assist with the
provision of responses and advice on legislation, and regulations to stay in
touch with sectoral evolution, Participate in funding workstreams and steering
committees for SOEs, Assist with research on latest trends impacting the
industry.
ENQUIRIES : Only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
43
ANNEXURE F
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : Durban: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X54314, Durban,
4001. Applications can also be hand delivered to 1st Floor Office No 118, CNR
Somtseu8 & Stalwart Simelane Streets, Durban, 4000.
Gauteng/Land Court Randburg: Quoting the relevant reference number,
direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X7, Johannesburg, 2000. Applications can also be hand delivered
to the 12th floor, Cnr Pritchard and Kruis Street, Johannesburg.
Mpumalanga/Mbombela: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head: Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X
20051, Mbombela 1211. Applications can also be hand delivered to,
Mpumalanga Division of the High Court, Office of the Chief Justice Provincial
Service Centre, 311 Samora Machel Drive, Mbombela, 1200.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. Each application form must
be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both pages by the applicant.
The application must indicate the correct job title, the office where the position
is advertised and the reference number as stated in the advert. Failure by the
applicant to fully complete, sign and initial the application form will lead to 40
disqualifications of the application during the selection process. Applications
on the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you be in a
possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation
certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Dual
citizenship holders must provide the Police Clearance certificate from the
country of origin (when shortlisted all non - SA Citizens will be required to
submit a copy of proof of South African permanent residence). Applications that
do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements will not be considered.
Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal
record, financial checks, qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference
checks and employment verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-
listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months
after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application
was unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with
the above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late, will
not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in
the application not being considered during the selection process. All
successful candidates will be expected to enter into an employment contract
and a performance agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be
required to undergo a security clearance three (3) months after appointment.
The Office the Chief Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal
information provided to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more
specifically for the purpose of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the
event that your application was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice
will retain your personal information for internal audit purposes as required by
policies. All the information requested now or during the process is required for
44
recruitment purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your
application null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the
security and confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment
process
OTHER POSTS
POST 31/59 : CHIEF REGISTRAR REF NO: 2025/215/OCJ
SALARY : R586 956 – R1 386 972 per annum (MR6). The successful candidates will be
required to sign a performance agreement. Salary will be in accordance with
the Occupation Specific Dispensation (Resolution 1 of 2008). Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit a Service Certificate/s for determination
of their experience.
CENTRE : Land Court Randburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate and LLB Degree or a Four (4) year legal qualification as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of eight (8) years' post graduate legal
experience gained as a Registrar. A valid driver's license. An LLM Degree will
serve as an added advantage. Skills and competencies: Computer literacy,
Excellent communication skills (verbal and written). Report writing skills.
Numerical skills Attention to detail. Planning, organizing and control. Problem
solving and decision-making skills. Customer service orientated. Interpersonal
skills. Conflict management skills. Strong work ethic and motivation. Self-
management. Professional appearance and conduct. All shortlisted candidates
shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment
method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical
and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Mentor and advice on the tracking and management of the progression of all
cases filed in court. Management of time and events necessary to move cases
from initiation through to disposition. Make inputs on amendments of court
rules and practice directives to improve efficiency at the Land Court of Appeal.
Implement directives issued by the President of the Land Court of Appeal.
Manage implementation of the Departmental Strategic Objectives relating to
the processing of cases within the Case Flow Management Framework at the
Supreme Court of Appeal. Compile training manuals and provide training to
registrars and registrars' clerks. Support staff. Stakeholder Management,
Human Resources Management, Court and Case Flow Management/Quasi-
Judicial functions. Manage Sen./ice Level Agreement, Framework. Managing
Strategic Court Efficiency Projects and Best Practices, Information and
Case/Court Documentation Management System. Safeguard case records in
accordance and prescripts. Achieve excellence in delivering planned customer
service outcomes (i.e. service levels and standards) for the 38 Departments
and monitoring the unit's service delivery in order to achieve the service
delivery targets. Ensure the highest level of customer care and customer
satisfaction. Manage all administration related functions. Supervise and
develop staff
ENQUIRIES : Technical Enquiries: Ms N Mhlambi Tel No: (010) 493 5664
HR enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : can be sent via email at 2025/215/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 31/60 : REGISTRAR’S CLERK REF NO: 2025/216/OCJ
Re-advertisement, candidates who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply.
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal Division of the High Court: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent qualification. A three-year relevant
qualification (National Diploma at NQF level 6) with 360 credits as recognised
by SAQA will be an added advantage. no experience is required. Skills and
Competencies: Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working
environment, Knowledge of registry processes and practice, Knowledge of
storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working environment,
Knowledge and understanding of legislative frameworks governing the Public
Service, Knowledge of Filling system, Mail procedure manual, Promotion of
45
access to information Act and National archives. Computer Literacy skills
(Microsoft Office), Communication skills, Numeracy, Interpersonal skills,
Problem solving and analysis skills, Time management skills, administrative
skills. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise
as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability
based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Perform clerical and administrative work within the Hight Court, Handle court’s
request files, render case management duties, render administrative support
and perform administrative duties as assigned by Management. Attend to all
stakeholders’ enquiries and correspondences, provide effective and efficient
case flow management support service to the Court. Ensure proper filling and
safekeeping of all records. Proper administration of all appeal and petition
processes., ensure proper receipt, processing, administration and filling of all
appeals and applications for leave to appeal. Perform general administrative
duties.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Enquiries: Ms M Ries, Tel No: (031) 493 1723
HR Enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493 1723
APPLICATIONS Applications can be sent via email at 2025/216/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals
POST 31/61 : TELECOM OPERATOR REF NO: 2025/217/OCJ
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Mpumalanga Division of the High Court: Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent qualification; Basic Computer Certificate will
be an added advantage. no experience is required. A valid driver’s license will
be an added advantage. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of clerical
duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and
collecting statistics, Knowledge of the MS Office package, with experience in
word processing, outlook, Power Point and Excel Knowledge of Office
Administration, Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework,
governing Public Service, Knowledge of handling alarm systems related to the
switchboard, Knowledge of legislations, Batho Pele Principles. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise and driving test
excise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Ensure that all switchboard is maintained at all times. Maintain the telephone
database, provide messaging services, maintain effective performance of
answering direct calls, maintain internal telephone directory. Provide
switchboard services to all clients, assist with any telephone related duties
required by the management, attend to high priority calls and forward calls to
relevant business units and identify and report telephone faults through emails,
maintain the functional telephone system, ensure that switchboard and
telephone equipment is working in order. Reports all faults to technical service
providers, report all faults on telephone lines to the information services unit
within the department. Update and maintain accurate contacts and information
list of services, departments, staff members and application requirements.
Administer telephone accounts. Ensure effective and efficient communication
both internally and externally. Provide accurate information to the clients.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms JM Shongwe Tel No: (013) 758 0000
HR enquiries: Mr SJ Zwane/Mr MV Maeko Tel No: (013) 758 0000
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/217/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 31/62 : MESSENGER REF NO: 2025/218/OCJ
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810.per annum (Level 03). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Mpumalanga Division of the High Court: Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Grade (10) or (ABET Level 2 certificate). Grade 12 will serve as an added
advantage. A valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies, Computer literacy
and basic software (outlook, Excel and word) Good Communication skills
(written and verbal) Good interpersonal relations, customer service,
interpersonal skills, conflict Management, work ethic, and motivation, All
46
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise and driving
test excise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Distribute mail to various offices. Collect post bag from the Post Office.
Transport Officials to various destinations. Daily delivery and collection of posts
from Post Office. Distribution of urgent/hand delivered mail to various offices.
Delivering of outgoing mail to post Office. Maintenance of the register of mail
distribution and ensure safeguarding of all correspondence. Collect and deliver
mail. Driving court vehicles.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Ms JM Shongwe Tel No: (013) 758 0000
HR enquiries: Mr SJ Zwane/Mr MV Maeko Tel No: (013) 758 0000
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be via email to: 2025/218/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
47
ANNEXURE G
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The Department of Public Works and Infrastructure is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
The intention is to promote representatively in the Public Service through the filling of these posts and
with persons whose appointment will promote representatively, will receive preference. An indication by
candidates in this regard will facilitate the processing of applications. If no suitable candidates from the
unrepresented groups can be recruited, candidates from the represented groups will be considered.
People with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Please note that for positions targeted for people with
disabilities, successful candidate will be required to complete the EEA1 form on appointment
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025 at 16H00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed Z83 application form
(obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA website link:
https:/www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/, which must be signed, initialled and
dated by the applicant, and must be accompanied by a detailed curriculum
vitae (CV) only. Candidates are not required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and related documents on application. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualification and other
related documents on or before the date of interview, which should not be older
than six months. Should an application be submitted using incorrect/old Z83
application form, such an application will be disqualified. Further take note of
the following on completion of Z83 application form: PART A and PART B must
be fully completed. PART C - PART G: Noting that there is a limited space
provided applicants may refer to CV or indicate. This will be acceptable as long
as the CV has been attached and provides the required information. Page 1 of
the Z83 application form must be initialled and page 2 signed and dated by the
applicant. Failure to comply with the above instructions may result in an
application being disqualified. Applicants applying for more than one advertised
post must submit separate Z83 application forms and CVs in respect to each
post being applied for. Should an application be received where an applicant
has applied for more than one posts on the same Z83 application form, the
applicant will be considered for the first post indicated on the Z83 application
form only. Applications will be received via post/courier services, hand
deliveries or email. Late applications will not be considered. Regulation 57 (c)
and 67 (9) of the Public Service Regulations 2016, as amended, requires the
executive authority to ensure that he or she is fully satisfied of the claims being
made and the finalisation of Personnel Suitability Checks in order to verify
claims and check the candidate for purpose of being fit and proper for
employment, respectively. Shortlisted candidates must be willing to undergo
normal vetting and verification processes. Note: It is the responsibility of all
applicants to ensure that foreign qualifications are evaluated by SAQA. Due to
large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of applications will not be
acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates
only. Should you not have heard from us within three months from the closing
date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Entry level requirements
for SMS posts: in terms of the Directive on Human Resource Management and
Development on Public Service Professionalisation Volume 1 a requirement for
appointment into SMS posts is the successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-Entry programme as endorsed by the National School of
Governance (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link: https: www.thensg.gov.za/training –course /sms-pre-entry
programme/.Note: For emailed applications, please submit a single document
or one attachment per application to the email address designated for the
specific position. kindly note that the emailed applications and attachments
should not exceed 15MB. It remains the candidate’s responsibility to ensure
that their application is successfully submitted.
48
OTHER POSTS
POST 31/63 : CHIEF WORKS MANAGER: ELECTRICAL COMPONENT: FACILITIES
MANAGEMENT REF NO: 2025/71
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Electrical Engineering,
accompanied by proven technical experience OR (N3 plus trade test
completed successfully plus 3-5 years technical experience in the built
environment). A valid driver’s licence; computer literacy; knowledge and
understanding of PFMA, OHSA, National Building Regulations, Environment
Conservation Act as well as the Government Procurement System. Willingness
to travel and work irregular hours. Sound analytical, good written and verbal
communication skills.
DUTIES : Attend to planned and unplanned maintenance request from the clients.
Compile scope of works and prepare estimates and technical reports. Inspect
and report on leased buildings. Inspect and report on optimum use of Electrical
equipment and installation. Inspection of electrical meter readings; effective
utilization of electrical and certification of Municipal Accounts (Monitor water
consumption). Ensure that all electrical equipment’s and installations comply
with the SANS requirements and standards. Ensure electrical work and
drawings comply with the OHSA. Preparation of tender documentation. Verify
and certify invoices for contractors. Ensure effective and efficient management
of Property Management functions related to Electrical discipline. Prepare and
compile monthly reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Mohapi Tel No: (051) 408 7354
APPLICATIONS : Bloemfontein Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, P/Bag X20605, Bloemfontein, 9300 or Hand
Delivered to 18 President Brandt Street, Bloemfontein, 9300 or email to:
RecruitBLOEM25-02@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr D Manus
POST 31/64 : CHIEF WORKS MANAGER: MECHANICAL REF NO: 2025/72
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Mechanical Engineering
accompanied by proven technical experience within the Mechanical
environment (Planned & Unplanned maintenance), OR (N3 plus trade test in
Fitter & Tuner, Boiler and Millwright plus 3-5 years technical experience in the
mechanical environment (Planned & Unplanned maintenance). A valid driver’s
licence; computer literacy. Extensive knowledge and understanding of
Mechanical Regulations, PFMA, OHSA, National Building Regulations,
Environment Conservation Act as well as the Government Procurement
System. Willingness to travel and work irregular hours. Sound analytical, good
written and verbal communication skills.
DUTIES : Attend to planned and unplanned maintenance request from the client’s
departments. Compile scope of works and prepare estimates and technical
reports. Inspect and report on leased buildings. Inspect and report on optimum
use of Mechanical equipment and installation. Inspection of water meter
readings; effective utilization of water and certification of Municipal Accounts
(Monitor water consumption). Ensure all automatic sprinkler systems comply
with the Automatic Sprinkler Bureau Standards. Ensure mechanical work and
drawings comply with the OHSA. Preparation of tender documentation. Verify
and certify invoices for contractors. Ensure effective and efficient management
of Property Management functions related to Mechanical discipline. Prepare
and compile monthly reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T Mohapi Tel No: (051) 408 7354
APPLICATIONS : Bloemfontein Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, P/Bag X20605, Bloemfontein, 9300 or Hand
Delivered to 18 President Brandt Street Bloemfontein, 9300 or email to:
RecruitBLOEM25-03@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr D Manus
49
POST 31/65 : CHIEF WORKS MANAGER: BUILDING REF NO: 2025/73 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Durban Regional office
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6)/ National Diploma in the built
environment disciplines, relevant working experience in the technical field OR
(N3 plus trade test completed successfully plus 3 - 5 years technical
experience in the built environment Building management or maintenance).
Extensive knowledge of the Building Regulations, Occupational Health and
Safety Act, Public Finance Management Act, valid code EB or C1 Driver`s
license, must be prepared to travel. Registration with a professional body in the
built environment would be an added advantage. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Computer literate. Good interpersonal skills. Good
budgeting and estimating skills, Management and planning skills, Knowledge
and understanding of the Government procurement system, Knowledge and
understanding of Project Management. Problem solving, willing to adapt work
schedule in accordance with professional requirements.
DUTIES : Manage day-to-day general building maintenance project activities, to facilitate
effective maintenance project (term contracts), execution in terms of cost,
quality and time management on an existing State building. Manage projects
cost estimates and monitor and control the processes of controlling changes in
line with allocated day-to-day maintenance budget. Conduct site inspections to
ensure compliance to specifications set out by the Department, ensure
compliance with OHSA, assist in the development of building program and
conditional surveys in buildings and reporting regularly to management on the
progress thereof. Conduct site inspections to ensure compliance to
specifications set out by the Department, Budget management, Render a co-
ordinated and professional service at all levels regarding the maintenance and
management of DPWI clients.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Dube Tel No: (031) 3147076 / (082) 698 3774
APPLICATIONS : Durban Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X54315, Durban, 4000. Hand Deliver at Corner Dr
Pixley Kasem and Samora Machel Streets Durban or email to: RecruitDBN25-
04@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NS Nxumalo
POST 31/66 : CHIEF WORKS MANAGER: ELECTRICAL REF NO: 2025/74
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Durban Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6)/ National Diploma in the
Electrical environment disciplines with relevant working experience in the
technical field, electrical industry management or maintenance. OR (N3 plus
trade test completed successfully plus 3-5 years technical experience in the
built environment). Extensive knowledge of the Electrical Regulations,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, Public Finance Management Act, valid
code EB or C1 Driver`s license, must be prepared to travel. Registration with a
professional body in the Electrical environment would be an added advantage
- Wireman’s License. Good verbal and written communication skills. Technical
report writing. Procurement process and systems, Computer literate. Good
interpersonal skills. Good numeracy budgeting and estimating skills, financial
administration, Programme and project Management and planning skills,
Knowledge and understanding of the Government procurement system,
Knowledge and understanding of Project Management. Problem solving,
willing to adapt work schedule in accordance with professional requirements.
DUTIES : Manage day-to-day general electrical maintenance project activities, to
facilitate effective maintenance project (term contracts), execution in terms of
cost, quality and time management on an existing State building. Manage
projects cost estimates and monitor maintenance budget. Conduct site
inspections to ensure compliance to specifications set out by the Department,
ensure compliance with OHSA, assist in the development of building program
and conditional surveys in buildings and reporting regularly to management on
the progress thereof. Render a coordinated and professional service at all
levels regarding the maintenance and management of DPWI clients.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Dube Tel No: (031) 3147076 / (082) 698 3774
APPLICATIONS : Durban Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X54315, Durban, 4000. Hand Deliver at Corner Dr
50
Pixley Kasem and Samora Machel Streets Durban or email to: RecruitDBN25-
05@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NS Nxumalo
POST 31/67 : CHIEF WORKS MANAGER: BUILDING REF NO: 2025/75
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Nelspruit Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Building /Civil/ Structural
Engineering or Architect with relevant experience OR (N3 plus Trade Test in
Plumbing/ Carpentry/ Bricklaying or related field with 3-5 years related
technical experience). A valid driver’s license is required. Extensive knowledge
of Occupational Health and Safety Act and National Building Regulations (i.e
SANS 10400 etc) and PFMA. Registration or candidacy with a profession body
in the built environment would be advantageous. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Computer literacy. Good interpersonal skills. Good
budgeting and estimating skills. Project management skills. Knowledge and
understanding of the government procurement processes (SCM directives and
circulars)
DUTIES : Manage day to day maintenance of state owned buildings. Facilitate effective
project execution in terms of cost, quality and time in the state owned
properties. Manage project costs and budgets. Conduct site inspections to
ensure compliance with specifications set out by the department and laws.
Ensure OHSA and regulations compliant. Assist in development of building
programs and conduct conditional surveys and report regularly on the progress
thereof. Render a coordinated and professional service at all levels regarding
the maintenance and management of DPWI clients. Update asset register.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PN Bendlela Tel No: (013) 753 6361
APPLICATIONS : Nelspruit Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X11280, Nelspruit, 1200. Physical Address: 30
Brown Street, Nedbank Building, 9th Floor, Nelspruit or email to:
RecruitNEL25-03@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr E Nguyuza
POST 31/68 : CHIEF WORKS MANAGER: MECHANICAL REF NO: 2025/76
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6)/ National Diploma (T/N/S
streams) or related, or (N3 plus a passed trade test in the relevant environment,
and 3-5 years related technical experience). Valid driver’s license. Knowledge:
Applicable knowledge of the Occupational Health and Safety Act; National
Building Regulations and Building Standards; Technical knowledge of the
mechanical environment. Procurement process and systems, Property and
facilities management. Skills: Computer literacy, technical report writing, good
verbal and written communication, programme and project management,
relationship management, negotiation, problem solving, numeracy, financial
administration. Personal attributes: Resourceful; creative; ability to
communicate at all levels; ability to work under stressful situations; assertive.
Willing to adapt work schedule in accordance with office requirements.
Willingness to travel and work irregular hours. Committed to designated tasks.
DUTIES : Identify needs and requirements of new work and repairs through the
investigation of customer complaints and new services required. Prepare
specifications for unplanned maintenance and minor new work. Develop a bill
of quantities. Develop proposals on the associated costs. Render an inspection
service of work done on new projects and existing structures. Inspect new
and/or maintenance work undertaken on project sites to ensure that it is being
done in compliance with all relevant regulations and legislation and that proper
quality control is maintained. Analyse and compile relevant project
documentation for new and existing structures, through inter alia the following.
Develop and interpret plans and sketches. Draw-up quotation documents and
compile specifications, bills of quantities and bid documents. Adjudicate and
provide recommendations on quotations and bids. Liaise with relevant
stakeholders in respect of technical aspects. Project sites: Advice and guide
contractors in respect of the compliance to legislation and procedures. Verify
invoices and certify progress of payments. Check and process variation orders
and make recommendations on requests for the extension of deadlines. Brief
51
contractors and consultants on projects and certify claims for fees. Provide
advice and guidance on the interpretation and application of legislation, policies
and procedures. Ensure quality control and effective and efficient workflow of
work done by Works Inspectors and report on all work allocated. Monitor the
proper utilisation of equipment, stores and expenditure. Administer the
departmental performance management and development system.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Majal Tel No: (021) 402 2300
APPLICATIONS : Cape Town Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of Public Works, Private Bag X9027, Cape Town, 8000. Or Hand Deliver at
Ground floor, Customs House Building, Lower Heerengracht Street, Cape
Town or email to: RecruitCPT25-12@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. C Rossouw
POST 31/69 : CHIEF WORKS MANAGER: ELECTRICAL REF NO: 2025/77
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF level 6) in the Electrical Engineering
discipline with relevant extensive technical experience, OR (N3 plus a passed
trade test in the relevant environment, and 3-5 years related technical
experience). A valid driver’s license. Wire man license will be additional
advantage. Ability to plan, organize and manage resources. Computer literacy.
Knowledge and understanding of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHSA), National Building Regulations,
Environment Conservation Act as well as the Government Procurement
System. Proven knowledge and understanding of estimating and scheduling
techniques. Willingness to travel and work irregular hours. Sound analytical
and good written and verbal communication skills. Registration with a
professional body will serve as an advantage.
DUTIES : Manage minor projects, unplanned maintenance, building condition surveys
and the asset register with reference to Electrical works, do site inspections
and reports on leased buildings, assist in site handovers, first and final
deliveries including the close out reports, facilitate negotiations with
contractors, compile the scopes of work and prepare specifications estimates,
ensure all work executed complies with PW 371 standards and specifications,
compile technical reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ailwei Nekhwevha Tel No: (021) 402 2301
APPLICATIONS : Cape Town Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of Public Works, Private Bag X9027, Cape Town, 8000. Or Hand Deliver at
Ground floor, Customs House Building, Lower Heerengracht Street, Cape
Town or email to: RecruitCPT25-13@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. C Rossouw
POST 31/70 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT TO THE CHIEF DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN
MANAGEMENT REF NO: 2025/78
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Secretariat Diploma/
Management Assistant, Office Administration, Office /Business Management
or related qualifications. Relevant working experience in office administration.
The ability to liaise at Senior Management level and ability to work and cope
under intense pressure are important prerequisites. Maintain confidentiality
and be able to work independently, with minimum supervision. Advanced
computer literacy in MS office packages (MS Word, MS Excel and MS
PowerPoint). Experience in customer relations and client liaison, in addition,
applicants must have the knowledge of budgeting processes and how to apply
them. Knowledge of Government Procurement processes will be an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Manage the traffic in the office of the Chief Director, efficient and effective
Human Resources, Financial administrative support. Perform the duties of the
Chief Director User Clerk in the office of incoming and outgoing post. Maintain
a filing registry in the office of the Chief Director. Provision stationery and
supplies, Maintaining an electronic post register for management of the Chief
Director’s diary, Schedule meetings and telephone management, Make official
travel arrangements for the Chief Director, Assist with the preparation and
development of Chief Director’s presentations, reports and minutes of
52
meetings, Arrange official functions for the office of the Chief Director, Assist in
the identification and development of training material for the Chief Director
and organise training facilities, Responsible for procurement processes within
the office of the Chief Director and manage the petty cash, Assist in the
development of the MTEF budget for the Chief Director and develop and
maintain a monthly commitment register, Ensure the security profile and
classification of documentation reports and information related to the office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. K Segole Tel No: (012) 406 1362/Ms. K Manamela Tel No: (012) 406 1776
APPLICATIONS : Head Office Applications: The Director-General, Department of Public Works
and Infrastructure, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at 256
Madiba Street, CGO Building, Pretoria or email to: Recruitment25-
33@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 31/71 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION (GRADE A) ELECTRICAL - WORKSHOPS REF
NO: 2025/79
SALARY : R243 597 per annum, (OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Kimberly Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade test Certificate in electrical. Valid driver’s license.
Knowledge of Occupational Heath and Safety Act 85, of 1993 and regulations.
Must have General knowledge of Electrical tools, equipment in the workshops.
The inherent requirements of the job. It will be expected of the incumbent to
climb ladders for inspection, work in confined spaces and perform maintenance
on Government Buildings in relation to Electrical works.
DUTIES : The successful candidate must be able to compile material quantities per
project, will be required to maintain all Government Buildings including new
work to Government buildings. Must be willing to work overtime if required, and
compile progress reports on projects and monitor Tradesman Aid and learners.
Report directly to Artisan Foreman or Chief Artisan. Must have vast knowledge
of Occupational Health and safety Act 85 of 1993. It will be expected of the
incumbent to participate to participate in various expeditions including assisting
other Regional Office if needs arise.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Maano Tel No: (053) 838 5366
APPLICATIONS` : Kimberley Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works and Infrastructure, Private Bag X5002, Kimberley, 8301 or Hand
Deliver to 21-23 Market Square, Old Magistrate Building, Kimberley or email
to: RecruitKIM25-07@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms V Tidikwe
POST 31/72 : ARTISAN: PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO: 2025/80
SALARY : R243 597 per annum
CENTRE : Gqeberha Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in Bricklaying and Plastering. A Valid drivers
licence. Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act 85, of 1993 and
regulations. Must have General knowledge of Bricklaying and Plastering tools
and equipment in the workshops. The inherent requirements of the job. It will
be expected of the incumbent to climb ladders for inspection, work in confined
spaces and perform maintenance on Government Buildings in relation to
Bricklaying and Plastering works.
DUTIES : Produce designs according to client specification and within limits of production
capability. Inspect equipment and/or facilities for technical faults; Maintain and
repair technical faults related to building, plastering and scaffolding according
to standards; Test repair equipment and/or facilities against specifications;
Service equipment according to schedule; Quality assure serviced and
maintained equipment and/or facilities. Compile and submit reports, provide
inputs to the operational plan, keep and maintain job record/register of
maintained and repair faults
ENQUIRIES : Mr V. R. Maqetuka Tel No: (041) 408 2199
APPLICATIONS : Gqeberha Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X3913, North End, Port Elizabeth, 6056. Hand
delivery: Room 430, Corner. Hancock & Robert Street, North End, Port
Elizabeth, 6056 or email to: RecruitPE25-05@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P Buwa
53
POST 31/73 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ORGANISATIONAL DESIGN (OD) AND JOB
EVALUATION (JE) REF NO: 2025/81 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/Grade 12. Knowledge of Organisational Development
services will be an added advantage. Knowledge: Wide range of office
administrative tasks; Good telephone etiquette; Computer literacy; Relevant
legislations; Basic financial administration Skills Communication (verbal and
written); Sound organisational skill; Ability; Interpersonal skills; Office
administration and Planning.
DUTIES : Provide clerical and secretarial support for OD and Job Evaluation processes.
Manage incoming and outgoing correspondence and maintain accurate
records. Maintain and update OD related databases, registers, and statistical
reports. Handle routine enquiries. Update the organisational structure as
directed. Keep and maintain the filing system for the unit. Draft and type basic
letters, memos, and other routine correspondence as needed. Maintain the
unit’s incoming and outgoing mail/registers. Facilitate the procurement of
goods and services for the unit. Coordinate travel and accommodation
arrangements for the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs N Silulwane-Mjindi Tel No: (012) 406 1982
APPLICATIONS : Head Office Applications: The Director-General, Department of Public Works
and Infrastructure, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at 256
Madiba Street, CGO Building, Pretoria or email to: Recruitment25-
34@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 31/74 : REGISTRY CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO: 2025/82
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A senior certificate/ Grade 12. Knowledge of records/ documents management,
a file plan, mail and courier service procedures. Knowledge Information Act
(PAIA) and National Archives and Records Service Act (NARSA). Knowledge
of electronic document and records management system (EDRMS).
Competencies needed: Planning and organizing skills. Communication (verbal
and written) Skills. Problem solving skills, Customer care and Client orientation
skills. Computer literacy. Liaison skills, Analytical skills, Interpersonal Skills.
Telephone etiquette. Good leadership Skills. Attributes: Accurate. Confident,
Ability to work under pressure. Ability to work in a team and independently.
DUTIES : Receive mail from Post Office and internal clients. Open, stamp, sort mail and
record in the register. Receive parcels delivered by hand and record in the
register. Render courier service: package documents, place in envelopes,
address envelopes; place them in and outgoing tray and record mail in the mail
register. File and retrieve files on-site and off-site storage. Control movement
of files and access to files. Index, scanning, faxing. Photocopying. Reload
franking machine, register priority mail, receive and date stamp invoices and
forward to finance. Register supply of files to officials and maintain register of
files opened and make follow up if the file is not returned back to Registry after
the due date. Issue reference no according to the approved file plan. Attend to
client’s enquiries; assist in the absence of the supervisor. Perform any other
administrative tasks as requested by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Q. Tom Tel No: (012) 406 2046
APPLICATIONS : The Regional Manager, Department of Public Works Private Bag X229,
Pretoria, 0001 or Hand delivery at: 251 Nana Sita AVN Building, Cnr Thabo
Sehume and Nana Sita Streets Pretoria or email to: RecruitPTA25-
08@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms K. Tlhapane/ Ms MC. Lekganyane
POST 31/75 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK REF NO: 2025/83 (X3 POSTS)
(One (1) position is targeted for persons with disabilities)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A senior certificate/ Grade 12. Knowledge of Demonstrative computer literacy
(word processing, spreadsheets, presentations); wide range of office
management and administration tasks. Advanced communication, basic
54
numeracy, interpersonal relations and general office administrative and
organizational skills. Must be computer literate.
DUTIES : Administrate office correspondence, documents and reports; organise
meetings and workshops, and document record thereof; draft and type
correspondence and documents; manage the flow of information and
documents in the office; manage communication to and from the office. Assist
with ordering of material and equipment from suppliers; administer
documentation for requisitions and reports; submit invoices for payment.
Organise office logistical matters and act as general receptionist; administer
placements, work schedules and consolidated leave record of component staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Q. Tom Tel No: (012) 406 2046
APPLICATIONS : The Regional Manager, Department of Public Works Private Bag X229,
Pretoria, 0001 or Hand delivery at: 251 Nana Sita AVN Building, Cnr Thabo
Sehume and Nana Sita Streets Pretoria or email to: RecruitPTA25-
09@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms K. Tlhapane/ Ms MC. Lekganyane
POST 31/76 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: WORKSHOP REF NO: 2025/84
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/ Grade 12. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act,
Treasury Regulations, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations and
General Office Administration. Have effective verbal and written
communication skills. Computer literacy in MS Office. Willing to adapt work
schedule in accordance with office requirements.
DUTIES : Register and file new job cards, make follow up on outstanding job cards,
monitor the updating of information on job cards, circulation of information on
job cards. Settling of queries and problems on job cards; update and provide
relevant information on job cards to clients and stakeholders, maintain
statistical information, support effective and efficient administration of
workshops, ensure continuous adherence to OHSA policies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Kutu Tel No: (012) 310 5993
APPLICATIONS : The Regional Manager, Department of Public Works Private Bag X229,
Pretoria, 0001 or Hand delivery at: 251 Nana Sita AVN Building, Cnr Thabo
Sehume and Nana Sita Streets Pretoria or email to: RecruitPTA25-
10@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms K. Tlhapane/ Ms MC. Lekganyane
POST 31/77 : SENIOR ACCOUNTING CLERK: FINANCE (BATCH CONTROLLER) REF
NO: 2025/85
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/Grade 12 (A Grade 12/ Senior Certificate with Accounting
as a Subject will serve as an added advantage). Knowledge of a financial
environment will be advantages. Knowledge of relevant legislation, regulations
and policies. Sound interpersonal and communication skills, computer literate,
multi-tasked skills, self-driven, result orientated, motivated, meet deadlines and
acceptance of responsibility.
DUTIES : Reporting to the State Accountant the incumbent of this position will take
responsibility for: The main responsibility of this post relates to the safekeeping
and management of documents (Batch Control) including the monitoring and
controlling of the adherence to sound accounting and NPDW practices,
prescribed policies and regulations in all transactions. Monitor and control all
documents relating to the different transversal systems. Ensure correct
allocation of expenditure and revenue. Draw financial and other BAS reports in
support of the activities of the unit. It could be expected of the incumbent to
assist in the budget formulation, compiling of a cash flow budget as well as the
monthly reporting. As well as performing duties related to the cashier functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Mokoena Tel No: (051) 408 7376
APPLICATIONS : Bloemfontein Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, P/Bag X20605, Bloemfontein, 9300 or Hand
Delivered to 18 President Brandt Street Bloemfontein 9300 or email to:
RecruitBLOEM25-04@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr D Manus
55
POST 31/78 : SENIOR REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: 2025/86
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Durban Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/Grade 12, plus Knowledge of the National Archives and
Records of South Africa Act, No 43 of 1996, as amended. Computer literacy.
Ability to identify and arrange different types of records. Ability to work under
pressure and take initiative. Knowledge of disposal of records. Proven
communication, organizing and interpersonal skills. (Knowledge of Logis and
Reapatala systems will be an added advantage).
DUTIES : Manage the more advanced duties of the Registry Clerk. Keep registers, eg for
stamps, registered mail, certified mail and others. Handle postal articles. Keep
the file index up to date and maintain files. Keep and manage amendments,
annual reports and delegations. Updating of the invoice Register for both
PMTE and NDPWI.
ENQUIRIES : Mr BH Khanyeza Tel No: (031) 314 7038
APPLICATIONS : Durban Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X54315, Durban, 4000. Hand Deliver at Corner Dr
Pixley Kasem and Samora Machel Streets Durban or email to: RecruitDBN25-
06@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NS Nxumalo
POST 31/79 : SENIOR SECURITY OFFICER: SECURITY MANAGEMENT REF NO:
2025/87
Key Post Statement: To support the delivery of security services in the
Department; manage physical security-related duties, security control room
and other security functions within the Chief Directorate.
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Kimberley Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/Grade 12 and a Grade B (PSIRA) Certificate; Familiarity
with security legislation will serve as an advantage. Computer literacy. Ability
to work independently, analyse problem areas and initiate corrective measures.
Valid driver’s licence and the willingness to travel on a regular basis. Good
communication skills at all levels. Good writing and analytical skills. Knowledge
of security systems will serve as an added advantage.
DUTIES : Assist with the management of the security operations at the Regional Office
and all state properties falling within the jurisdiction of the regional office.
Render administrative support to the section. Prepare documents for pre-
screening and vetting. Assist in the preparation of reports and submissions to
Regional Management and other stakeholders. Liaise with NIA, SAPS, SANDF
and other stakeholders in the security environment. Conduct security
awareness. Assist in any other general duties assigned by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Balepile Tel No: (053) 838 5330
APPLICATIONS : Kimberley Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works and Infrastructure, Private Bag X5002, Kimberley, 8301 or Hand
Deliver to 21-23 Market Square, Old Magistrate Building, Kimberley or email
to: RecruitKIM25-08@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms V Tidikwe
POST 31/80 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: MOVABLE ASSETS REF NO: 2025/88
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Kimberley Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/Grade 12. Knowledge of Movable Asset Management.
Computer literacy. Record keeping skills, communication skills and good
interpersonal skills. Knowledge of the following: PFMA, Treasury Regulations,
Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA).
DUTIES : Establish, implement and maintain appropriate systems, Policies and
Procurement procedures to ensure effective, efficient and economical
management of the Department Assets. Ensure that the Asset Register is
maintained and updated daily with all requisitions, movements and disposals.
Ensure proper reporting and reconciliation on assets. Co-ordinate annual
stocktaking. Conduct inspections on a quarterly basis. Investigate shortages
and surpluses and compilation of report findings, internal control and asset
management. Responsible for recording transfers, movements, audits and
disposal of assets.
56
ENQUIRIES : Ms MF Allen Tel No: (053) 838 5245
APPLICATIONS : Kimberley Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works and Infrastructure, Private Bag X5002, Kimberley, 8301 or Hand
Deliver to 21-23 Market Square, Old Magistrate Building, Kimberley Or email
to: RecruitKIM25-09@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms V Tidikwe
POST 31/81 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT (SCM) REF NO:
2025/89
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Gqeberha Regional Office
REQUIEREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/Grade 12. (A Grade 12/ Senior Certificate with Commercial
Subject will serve as an added advantage). Computer literate in Ms
Word/Excel. The candidate should be well organized person and should be
prepared to work under pressure. Basic knowledge of PFMA and PPPFA and
other relevant Supply Chain Management legislation. A valid code 8 driver’s
license will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Invite quotation from suppliers according to the relevant stakeholders, keeping
and maintain suppliers database, generate orders on Logis, administrate
suppliers transversal contract, administrate department cell phones contracts,
compile reports in respect of order transactions. Liaise with internal and
external clients in respect of suppliers. Ensure compliance of provisioning
policies in respect of goods and services. Assist on sport checks of e-class
accountability store.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T.E. Matiso Tel No: (041) 408 2007
APPLICATIONS : Gqeberha Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X3913, North End, Port Elizabeth, 6056. Hand
delivery: Room 430, Corner. Hancock & Robert Street, North End, Port
Elizabeth, 6056 or email to: RecruitPE25-06@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P Buwa
POST 31/82 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGEMENT
REF NO: 2025/90
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Gqeberha Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/Grade 12 certificate. Knowledge of WCS. Knowledge of
PFMA, Financial Administration, Budgetary and procurement processes,
financial systems, good verbal and written communication skills, good report
writing, basic numeracy, office administrative and organizational skills. The
ability to manage confidential information, advanced interpersonal and
diplomacy skills, problem solving skills, decision making skills and computer
literacy are all advantageous.
DUTIES : Effectively and efficiently manage the office to relieve the manager of various
administrative and clerical tasks, liaise and interact with other managers, staff
and stakeholders and provide support, gain or provide information as and when
required, liaise and interact to gain or provide information. Facilitate access to
information or referral to appropriate persons, processing of WCS payments
for consultants and contractors/suppliers. Effectiveness of transport, travel and
accommodation arrangements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S. L. Jikeka Tel No: (041) 408 2074
APPLICATIONS : Gqeberha Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X3913, North End, Port Elizabeth, 6056. Hand
delivery: Room 430, Corner. Hancock & Robert Street, North End, Port
Elizabeth, 6056. Or email to: RecruitPE25-07@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P Buwa
POST 31/83 : REGISTRY CLERK: PROVISIONING AND LOGISTICS REF NO: 2025/91
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/Grade 12. Knowledge and understanding of records/
documents management, mail and courier service procedures. Knowledge of
Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS) Act, National Archives Act 43
of 1996, Records Service Act (NARSA) and Promotion to Access Information
Act (PAIA). Computer literacy is also recommended. Customer care and client
57
orientation skills. Ability to work under pressure and take initiatives.
Understanding of financial systems (SAGE and Archibus). Ability to work with
sensitive information. Proven communication, organizing and interpersonal
skills. Willing to adapt work schedule in accordance with office requirements.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be required to maintain the filing system and
records. Manage the flow of files and records, track and traces files and
manage sensitive documentation. Render administrative support, serving
internal and external clients. Manage the receipt and distribution of documents.
Receive, Verify and register invoices on Reapatala System. Drawing or
downloading of Reapatala reports and filing thereof (electronically and
manually) Uploading of documents on Archibus system. Postage and mailing
of departmental documents to various destinations and render Courier service.
Perform any other related tasks as per Supervisor’s instructions including office
duties.
ENQUIRIES : Lithabile Mgwadleka Tel No: (021) 402 2032
APPLICATIONS : Cape Town Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of Public Works, Private Bag X9027, Cape Town, 8000. Or Hand Deliver at
Ground floor, Customs House Building, Lower Heerengracht Street, Cape
Town or email to: RecruitCPT25-14@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. C Rossouw
NOTE : People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 31/84 : ADMIN CLERK: HELP DESK AND COMPLAINTS REF NO: 2025/92
This post is targeted for people with disabilities only.
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/Grade 12. Knowledge: Office administration, Reapatala,
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, Financial
management and administration, State budgetary systems, Financial systems,
Archibus and Logis. Skills: numeracy, accounting, organising, interpersonal
skills, diplomacy, ability to follow a pro-active and creative problem, solving
approach, communication, computer literacy. Personal Attributes: Ability to
work under stressful situations, hardworking, and team player.
DUTIES : Address enquiries or refer them to the necessary manager. Follow up on
outstanding complaints and queries, ensure resolutions of meetings are
addressed within established timeframes and administer the Archibus System.
Update and maintain electronic and physical records for procurement
instructions. Furnish information for reports to internal and external
stakeholders. Record, organise, store, capture, update and retrieve
correspondence and data. Make photocopies and receive or send facsimiles,
distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as required, keep and
maintain the filing system for the component. Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of
office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component. Assist
with ordering of material and equipment from suppliers. Capture and update
expenditure in component. Check correctness of subsistence and travel claims
of officials and submit to manager for approval. Handle telephone accounts
and petty cash for the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation.
Distribute personnel pay slips and ensure that a payroll certificate has been
signed and submitted to HR. Maintain a leave register for the component. Plan
the diary for the sub-directorate. Book a meeting venue, arrange meetings and
confirm attendance with stakeholders. Take minutes and distribute to meeting
attendees. Assist with procurement of a service provider for catering where
required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr KC Muthivheli Tel No: (011) 713 6097
APPLICATIONS : Johannesburg Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X3, Braamfontein, 2017 or Hand
Deliver to No 78 Corner De Beer and Korte, Braamfontein, 2017 or email to:
RecruitJHB25-04@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr M Mudau
POST 31/85 : SENIOR SECURITY OFFICER: SUPERVISOR REF NO: 2025/93
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Durban Regional Office
58
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/Grade 12 certificate or equivalent. Security Certificate (A
minimum of 1 year study). Grade C PSIRA Certificate. Knowledge of access
control procedures, measure for the control and movement of equipment and
stores, prescribed security procedure (MISS, NIA, Protection of Information Act
etc.) and the authority of security officer under these documents, relevant
emergency procedures. Effective communication analytical and numerical
skills, organisation and planning, ability to meet deadlines, ability to work in a
team, interpersonal skills, problem solving skills, motivational skills, ability to
operate equipment and machines. Analytical thinking, ability to work under
stressful situations, ability to communicate at all levels, good interpersonal
relationship and hard-working and willing to work shifts.
DUTIES : Supervise the security functions performed by the security officers/service
providers, ensuring adherence department security policies. Allocate duties to
security officers/service providers, monitor outcomes and institute the
necessary corrective measures to address deviations from norms and
standards. Monitor access control to prevent unauthorised entry into buildings
and other premises. Authorisation of the equipment, documents and stores into
and out of the building or premises. Inspect and report all none functioning of
security measures (e.g. X-Ray machines, walk through metal detectors,
security lights etc.) Check incidents/occurrence registers. Monitor and Provide
support in case of emergencies. Render administrative and related functions,
determining rosters, shift schedules and overtime. Monitor performance of
employees and determine training needs. Control leave and related personnel
matter in line with HR procedures and prescripts. Provide security related
services. Administer key control system. Identify risks and threats to the
security of the department. Provide information regarding incidents to
investigating officer. Monitor and respond to alarm system Ensure that
unauthorised persons and dangerous objects do not enter the building or
premises. Issue access cards to employees. Verify the validity of access cards.
Monitor CCTV in security control room to identify suspicious Activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TE Phungula Tel No: (031) 314 7026
APPLICATIONS : Durban Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X54315, Durban, 4000. Hand Deliver at Corner Dr
Pixley Kasem and Samora Machel Streets Durban or email to: RecruitDBN25-
07@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NS Nxumalo
POST 31/86 : SCM CLERK: PROVISIONING AND LOGISTICS REF NO: 2025/94
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Mmabatho Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/Grade 12. Knowledge: Interpersonal skills, hardworking,
people orientated, ability to work under pressure. Understand Advance SCM
Concepts, Procurement Policies, Tender Procedures, Logis Literacy, Financial
Systems (LOGIS) (BAS), knowledge of payments, orders, posting. Skills:
Organising, and Time management Planning, Problem solving, and report
writing, ability to work with sensitive information. Computer Literacy,
Communication, General Office Management.
DUTIES : Render clerical support in the requisition process of goods and services.
Generate orders on LOGIS. Compile generic reports in respect of order
transactions. Provide support in the process of receiving and distribution of
stock as well as stock control. Administer paper work for distribution of goods.
Capture invoices from suppliers. Render clerical support to transport and travel
services. Receive and process PW21s forms. Capture travel and
accommodation arrangements. Render general clerical support services.
Maintain good record keeping. Control and maintain equipment and inventory.
Support administrative activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. P Ndukulu Tel No: (018) 386 5270
APPLICATIONS : Mmabatho Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of Public Works, Private Bag X120, Mmabatho, 2735 or Hand Deliver at 810
Corner Albert Luthuli Drive and Maisantwa Streets, Unit 3, Mmabatho, 2735 or
email to: RecruitMBT25-02@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr T. Oagile
POST 31/87 : DRIVER: LOGISTICAL SERVICES REF NO: 2025/95 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
59
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate /Grade 12 and a valid drivers license (code 8 or 10), willing
to adapt work schedule in accordance with office requirements. A public drivers
permit would be an added advantage. Knowledge: Operation of machinery and
tools. Department’s procurement process, Occupational Health and Safety Act.
Skills: effective communication (verbal and written). Interpersonal skills, Time
Management skills. Planning of processes. Good customer service. Operation
of heavy-duty photocopying machine. Personal attributes: Safety conscious,
confidentiality, trustworthy and hardworking. Have ability to work under
pressure, establish and maintain harmonious working relationships with co-
workers, staff and external clients.
DUTIES : Collect post, parcels and documentation and deliver to specified persons
/destinations. Ensure proper control of the movement of documents. Drive
departmental officials, clients and visitors as may be requested. Perform
inspections on fleet vehicles on a daily basis. Report all damages / services
dates to the Transport Officer. Taking vehicles for car wash. Render auxiliary
administrative support as required by the Transport Office. The successful
candidate will be responsible for the provision of management support service
with regards to document requests of heavy-duty bulk photocopying.
Procurement of reproduction equipment’s and stationery. Manage and control
access of the Photocopying room. Ensure protection of information at all times.
Ensure that all documents have been neatly bonded and stapled accordingly.
Inform clients when documents are ready for collection. Provide bulk shredding
and messenger services as requested. Ensure all the equipment are serviced
as required. Provide meter readings to suppliers. Provide monthly stats to the
supervisor. Perform any other related tasks as per supervisor’s instructions
including office duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. MR Masemola Tel No: (012) 406 1785
APPLICATIONS : Head Office Applications: The Director-General, Department of Public Works
and Infrastructure, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at 256
Madiba Street, CGO Building, Pretoria or email to: Recruitment25-
35@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
POST 31/88 : DRIVER REF NO: 2025/96
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate /Grade 12 and a valid driver’s license (code 8 or 10). A
public drivers permit would be an added advantage. Knowledge of Minimum
Information Security Standards (MISS) Act, basic literacy, basic numeracy.
Skills: Effective communication (verbal and written), interpersonal relations,
planning of work processes, time management, driving skills. Personal
Attributes: Hard working, trustworthy, punctuality, accuracy, polite, helpful,
honesty and flexibility.
DUTIES : Collect cleaning materials, cleaning machines, and documentation and deliver
to specified persons/ destinations. Drive departmental officials and visitors as
may be requested. Interact with officials in a professional manner. Receive
items and documents for transport and ensure that they are safely transported
to their destinations. Complete transport schedule regarding trips travelled.
Ensure that all assigned vehicles are clean and maintained and that any need
for repairs is outlined and reported. Safely drive assigned office vehicles by
following set rules and regulations. Report any accidents, injuries, and vehicle
damage. Support Facilities Management related activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr VG Msimango/KC Muthivheli Tel No: (011) 713 625 1097
APPLICATIONS : Johannesburg Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X3, Braamfontein, 2017 or Hand
Deliver to No 78 Corner De Beer and Korte, Braamfontein, 2017 or email to:
RecruitJHB25-05@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr M Mudau
POST 31/89 : DRIVER: LOGISTICS & PROVISIONING REF NO: 2025/97
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Polokwane Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/ Grade 12 certificate or equivalent. Valid drivers’ license.
Possession of PDP shall serve as an added advantage. Ability to read and
60
write. Good interpersonal skills. Ability to communicate freely and easily with
other employees, clients and the general public.
DUTIES : Perform general messenger and delivery services: Collect post, parcels and
documentation and deliver to specified persons/destinations, ensure proper
control over the movement of documents and face value documents, Collect
office consumables. Perform driver-related services: Drive departmental
officials, clients and visitors as may be requested, receive items and
documents for transport and ensure that they are safely transported to their
destinations, complete transport schedule regarding trips travelled. Take
proper care of the assigned departmental vehicle: Perform daily inspections on
all assigned vehicles, at the beginning of each shift, Provide accurate time
records of the departmental vehicle’s comings and goings. Render auxiliary
administrative support as required-: Support registry related activities. Support
operator related activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MC Mamabolo Tel No: (015) 293 8005
APPLICATIONS : Polokwane Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of public works, Private Bag X9469, Polokwane, 0700 or Hand deliver at 77
Hans van Rensburg Street, Sanlam Building, Ground Floor, Polokwane or
email to: RecruitPLK25-03@dpw.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr. NJ Khotsa
61
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Small Business Development is an equal opportunity & affirmative action employer. It
is the DSBD’s intention to promote representativity (race, gender, youth & disability). The candidature of
persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativity will receive preference
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by email to the relevant email and by quoting
the relevant reference number provided on the subject line. Acceptable formats
for submission of documents are limited to MS Word, PDF.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025 at 16h00. Applications received after the closing date will
not be considered.
NOTE : Applications must quote the relevant reference number and consist of: A fully
completed and signed Z83 form and a recent comprehensive CV. Submission
of copies of qualifications, Identity document, and any other relevant
documents will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. All non-SA citizens will
be required to submit proof of permanent residence in South Africa when
shortlisted. Personnel suitability checks will be done during the selection
process. Applicants could be required to provide consent for access to their
social media accounts. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within 1 month of the closing
date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. In the pursuit of diversity and redress and appointment will be in
line with the DSBD EE Plan. The successful candidate will be required to sign
a performance agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as
completing a financial interest’s declaration form within one month of
appointment and annually thereafter. The Department reserves the rights not
to fill or withdraw any advertised post. Note: a new application for employment
(Z83) form is applicable from 01 January 2021. The new form can be
downloaded online at http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp
OTHER POSTS
POST 31/90 : OFFICER: BUSINESS INFRASTRUCTURE “REF NO O:BI”
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF level 6) in Development Studies /Economics /
Commerce / Project Management / Property Development / Business
Development or equivalent / related as recognised by SAQA. Bachelor’s
degree (NQF level 7) in Public Admin / Economics / BCom / Project
Management / Property Development / Business Development and valid
drivers’ licence will be considered an added advantage. Minimum of 1 year
experience in Business Administration / Infrastructure / Development Finance
/ Project Management / Construction / Property Development / Commercial
Property / Incentives environment. Training in MS Office packages / Project
Management. Have proven competencies: Communication (Written and
Verbal), Programme & Project Management, Financial Management, Client
orientation and customer focus, Interpersonal skills, Problem solving and
analysis and Service Delivery Innovation.
DUTIES : Conduct secondary research on existing under-utilised state owned property
for possible access by small businesses and identify distressed properties for
potential acquisition. Contribute to the review of policies and systems required
for improving infrastructure access for all small businesses within the formal
and informal sector inclusive of but not limited to: providing inputs into the
design of guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOPs) guiding the
Business Infrastructure programme, assist in developing database and report
on business infrastructure acquisition etc. Identify risks and gaps on
mechanisms aimed at improving access to business infrastructure by small
businesses, inclusive of but not limited to (MSME hubs, shared infrastructure,
repurposed containers, pop-up markets, rehabilitation and occupancy
certificates, refurbishment and development). Consolidate directorate’s
financial and non-financial status and/or project progress reports on support
provided to small businesses related to access to infrastructure. Provide
secretariat support services during adjudication committee meetings (planning,
preparing meeting packs and agenda). Communicate with stakeholders,
62
clients, management & colleagues: Written, Verbal and formal presentations /
workshops / information sessions etc.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries for all advertised posts should be directed to the recruitment office
Tel No: (012) 394-5286/43097
APPLICATIONS : The Department of Small Business Development is committed to the pursuit of
diversity and redress. Candidates whose appointment will promote
representivity in terms of race, disability, youth & gender will receive preference
(as per the DSBD EE Plan). Candidates must submit applications to
recruitment8@dsbd.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying i.e. “REF
NO O:BI”
POST 31/91 : OFFICER: RED TAPE REDUCTION “REF NO: O: RTR”
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Economics / Public Administration /
Developmental Studies / Social Science / Business Management or equivalent
/ related as recognised by SAQA. Minimum of 1 year administrative experience
in stakeholder consultation environment with specific focus on communication
techniques. Training in MS packages, Policy Development and Project
Management. Have proven competencies: Communication (written and
verbal), Interpersonal skills, Attention to detail and Problem Solving, Project
Management, Stakeholder Engagement, Service delivery and innovation,
Networking, Programme Design and Delivery and Client orientation and
customer focus.
DUTIES : Conduct research on impacting factors in support of policy or programme
development inclusive of but not limited to: Desktop research, literature review
and primary research (research design, survey design, data collection and
analysis) Liaise with stakeholders across government to share best practices
and collect status updates on red rape reduction initiatives. Provide support
and contribute to the development of mechanisms, tools, programmes or
improvement of concepts, theories and operational methods for Entrepreneurs
and MSMEs inclusive of but not limited to: Development of SOPs, templates,
database maintenance etc. Conduct performance monitoring inspections to
determine compliance. Communication with stakeholders, clients,
management & colleagues: Written, Verbal and formal presentations /
workshops / information sessions. Provide general administrative and logistical
support to the business unit in respect of minute taking during stakeholder
meetings, logistical support during events / workshops / meetings and
procurement of goods and services ((catering, venues, etc).
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries for all advertised posts should be directed to the recruitment office
Tel No: (012) 394-5286/43097
APPLICATIONS : The Department of Small Business Development is committed to the pursuit of
diversity and redress. Candidates whose appointment will promote
representivity in terms of race, disability, youth & gender will receive preference
(as per the DSBD EE Plan). Candidates must submit applications to
recruitment3@dsbd.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying i.e. “REF
NO: O: RTR”
POST 31/92 : JOB ANALYST “REF NO: JA”
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) in Behavioural or Social Sciences (e.g. Industrial
Psychology) / Management Sciences or equivalent / related as recognised by
SAQA. Organisational Design / Work Study / Production Management or
related qualifications will be considered an added advantage. Minimum of 2
years’ relevant experience in Organisational Design and Work Study or related.
Training in Microsoft office packages, Business Process Mapping and Visio,
Job Evaluation and PERSAL Establishment would be considered an added
advantage. Competencies in: Communication (verbal & Non-Verbal), Creative
Thinking, Decision Making, Problem Analysis, Attention to detail and Planning
and organising skills.
DUTIES : Conduct organisational design investigations. Develop job descriptions.
Conduct Job Evaluation inclusive of but not limited to: identifying and
63
prioritising jobs to be evaluated, job evaluation interviews, grading of jobs.
Conduct posts audit and update post information on Persal in line with structure
changes. Provide support to the JE panel and serve as a secretariat. Provide
general administrative support service to the organisational design business
unit. Communicate with stakeholders, clients, management & colleagues:
Written, Verbal and formal presentations / workshops / information sessions.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries for all advertised posts should be directed to the recruitment office
Tel No: (012) 394-5286/43097
APPLICATIONS : The Department of Small Business Development is committed to the pursuit of
diversity and redress. Candidates whose appointment will promote
representivity in terms of race, disability, youth & gender will receive preference
(as per the DSBD EE Plan). Candidates must submit applications to
recruitment4@dsbd.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying i.e. “REF
NO: REF NO: JA”
64
ANNEXURE I
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: EASTERN CAPE
OFFICE OF THE PREMIER
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must strictly apply using only the provincial eRecruitment system
which is available on www.ecprov.gov.za, or https://www.ecprov.gov.za or
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/. The system is available 24/7 and closes at
23:59 on the closing date. To report technical glitches, for assistance regarding
the system, and/or for activation of your profile, send an email with your ID
Number, your profile email address, details of the issue to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: For Technical Glitches Only –
No Cvs). Technical support is limited to working hours: (08:00-16:30 Mon-
Thursday and 08:00-16:00 on Fri). Should you submit your applications/ CV to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za and not as specified, your
application will be regarded as lost and not be considered. Refer all application
related enquiries to the specified contact person.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly complete New Z83 form (effective 01
January 2021) obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must
submit a fully completed signed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae.
NB: Z83 in the e-recruitment system is currently not downloadable and
therefore not signable; so, applicants who submitted applications via the e-
recruitment system will not be disqualified for an unsigned Z83 instead will be
requested to sign on interview day. Shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications, and other relevant documents to HR
on or before the interview date. Applicants with foreign qualifications would be
required to submit an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) on or before the day of the interview. Failure to submit all
the requested documents will disqualify the application. Correspondence will
be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within
six (6) months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial/asset record check, qualification/study verification and previous
employment verification). Successful candidates will also be subjected to
security clearance processes. Where applicable, candidates will be subjected
to a skills/knowledge test. Successful candidates will be appointed on a
probation period of twelve (12) months. Misrepresentation in the application
documents will result in automatic disqualification and disciplinary action in the
event the candidate has already been appointed. It is the department’s
objective to address the Employment Equity Affirmative Action Measures in line
with the Employment Equity Plan and to achieve equitable representation
across race and gender. In filling of these posts gender equity and people living
with disability will be highly considered. The Department reserves the right to
amend / review / withdraw advertised posts if by so doing, the best interest of
the department will be well served. (Females and People with disabilities are
also requested to apply and indicate such in their applications). targets of the
department will be adhered to. For SMS (Senior Management Service) Posts:
In terms of DPSA Directive on compulsory capacity development, mandatory
training, and minimum entry requirements for members of the Senior
Management Level for SMS appointments, it is a requirement for applicants to
produce a pre-entry Certificate (Nyukela) as offered by the National School of
Government (NSG) for entry into the SMS posts and the full details can be
sourced by following the link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-
pre-entry-programme (the SMS pre-entry certificate is not a requirement for
shortlisting; is submitted prior to appointment. Successful candidates will be
appointed on a probation period of 12/24 months. The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Applications received
after closing date will not be considered.
65
OTHER POSTS
POST 31/93 : SENIOR STATE LAW ADVISOR: LEGISLATION REF NO: OTP 01/08/2025
SALARY : R1 195 110 per annum (OSD – LP 9), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior certificate, LLB (or as otherwise determined by the Minister of
Justice and Constitutional Development). At least 8 years’ appropriate post
qualification litigation/advisory experience. Admission as an Attorney or
Advocate. A valid driver’s license. A qualification in Legislative Drafting will be
an advantage. Key Competencies: Applicants must understand the public
service prescripts/laws and its application Sound knowledge of constitutional
and administrative law, legislative drafting and advice, knowledge of statutory
and case law, regulations, prescripts and policies. Sound administrative skills
and computer literacy is also essential. Knowledge and experience in the
furnishing of legal advice and opinions, analytical skills, communication skills
and legal research. Ability to capacitate government officials on certain laws.
DUTIES : Drafting legislation for all client departments; Providing advice and legal
opinions to the Office of the Premier and provincial government departments;
Conduct the desktop analysis of legislation; Research and analyse
constitutional court judgements and concurrent National Legislation to ensure
that provincial legislation is aligned with national legislation and complies with
the Constitutional Court judgements; Conduct research based on instructions
received. Support client departments on policy formulation. Provide input on
draft Bills; Render support with analyzing of draft Bills together with the client
departments; Support the client departments in the public consultation on the
proposed Bills; Support the client departments through the Executive Council
processes for approval of the Bills; Assist with the translation of the Bills;
Prepare the necessary documents for the submission of the Bills to the
Legislature; Assist with the preparation for portfolio committee meetings;
Support the legislature in public hearings on Bills. Manage area of
responsibility: Supervise and co-ordinate the effective and efficient running and
management of the Legislation directorate. Assist in the review of the
Legislation directorate’s performance and make recommendations to improve
the efficiency and effectiveness thereof. Report on the Legislation directorate’s
information as required by internal and external stakeholders. Co-ordinate the
effective and efficient running and management of the Legislation directorate.
Develop and implement service delivery improvement programmes. Develop
the implementation of the Legislation directorate’s Annual Operational Plans.
Monitor and report on the implementation thereof monthly, quarterly and
annually. Ensure that performance agreements and development plans are
developed and implemented for all staff in the Legislation directorate within set
timeframes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N. Mhlawuli at 076 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo Xesha at 060 584 4059/
Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060 472 9836. For
eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
POST 31/94 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: WOMEN & GENDER MAINSTREAMING REF NO:
OTP 02/08/2025
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, an NQF Level 6/7 (National Diploma/ bachelor’s
degree) as recognized by SAQA in BA Social Science or any related field.
Minimum three (3) years’ experience in development work at supervisory level
(SL 7/8). Experience in the mainstreaming of designated groups will be an
added advantage. A valid driver’s license. Key Competencies: Knowledge of
strategy development, management, and monitoring. Knowledge of
International conventions, prescripts, policies and frameworks relevant to
women & gender mainstreaming.
DUTIES : Coordinate the implementation of transformation programmes for women &
gender mainstreaming according to functional objectives: Support the
implementation of policies and practices that seek to eliminate discriminatory
barriers thus promoting access for women to participate and gender equity &
equality in the province. Assist the review of departmental policies and
programmes, forums, committees, budgets, plans, reports etc. to ensure that
gender mainstreaming is embedded in governance and administrative
66
systems. Assist to monitor and evaluate the impact of transformation
programmes for women & gender groups in the province. Assist to develop
intervention strategies for state institutions to address identified bottlenecks /
challenges for women and gender groups in the province. Assist in developing
a report on transformation programmes about women & gender
mainstreaming. Implement and coordinate interventions aimed at protecting
and promoting human dignity and equality of women & gender groups: Assist
in promoting and supporting the Empowerment of women & gender groups by
running workshops aimed at raising awareness on women & gender, economic
empowerment, rights to life, etc. Support the promotion of advocacy through
media and information brochures. Assist in lobbying Chapter 9 and 10
institutions for support on the protection of rights of women & gender groups
and create linkages with development partners for resource mobilization.
Assist in programmes that encourage the autonomy and independence of
women & gender groups by promoting their full participation in economic,
social, cultural, civil and political life under conditions of equality. Assist to
establish monitoring mechanisms to evaluate initiatives to protect and promote
human dignity and equality of women & gender groups. Assist in developing
and coordinating the implementation of outreach programmes on women and
gender mainstreaming including observing key calendar activities that impact
on women & gender. Assist in developing a report on the impact of actions /
initiatives to protect and promote the human dignity and equality of women &
gender groups. Guide departments in the implementation of policy frameworks
and programmes meant to benefit women & gender mainstreaming: Collect
data from departmental plans to enable analysing them to establish alignment
with policies and frameworks. Assist in advising departments about the
analysis’ findings that relate to issues affecting women & gender
mainstreaming. Assist in coordinating and establishing an accounting platform
for state institutions on Provincial gender equity targets & women
empowerment status is established annually. Monitor socio-economic inclusion
of women & gender in programmes & projects of state institutions: Assist in
monitoring the progress made in implementing socio-economic empowerment
programmes for women by state institutions. Assist in developing and
coordinating the implementation of interventions strategies to address social
ills targeted at women & other gender groups. Assist in developing a Report on
the socio-economic programmes implemented for women. Manage the
allocated resources of the unit in line with legislative and departmental policy
directives and comply with corporate governance and planning imperatives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N. Mhlawuli at 076 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo Xesha at 060 584 4059/
Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060 472 9836. For
eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
POST 31/95 : VETTING INVESTIGATOR / OFFICER: PROVINCIAL VETTING SERVICES
REF NO: OTP 03/08/2025
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, NQF level 6/7 National Diploma/ Degree in Social
Science, Psychology, Security Management or equivalent. A minimum of 1-2
years’ experience in Vetting and Information Security Environment.
SAPS/Defense/SSA Vetting Course would be advantageous. Must have a valid
driver’s licence and ability to drive.
DUTIES : Receive files and planning vetting investigations process. Conduct quality
vetting fieldwork investigations. Analyse information as per norms and
standards and draft reports and make recommendations. Assist in creating
awareness in the Directorate: Provincial Integrity Management. Establish
integrity checking capacity. Maintain the security clearance database.
Knowledge of and Skills: Knowledge and understanding in the application of
vetting processes. Knowledge and understanding of the Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa, 1996, National Strategic Intelligence Act 39 of 1994
as amended by Act 67 of 2002, Minimum Information Security Standards,
Public Service Act (Act 103 of 1994), Promotion of Access to Information Act,
2000, Promotion of Administrative Justice Act, 3 of 2000. Protection of Personal
Information Act, 2020 (POPIA). Computer literacy and working knowledge of
Microsoft Word, Excel and Outlook.
67
ENQUIRIES : Mr N. Mhlawuli at 076 783 6993/ Ms Nomthandazo Xesha at 060 584 4059/
Ms. N. Nxoko at 083 653 2050/ Ms A. Mpuhlu at 060 472 9836. For
eRecruitment enquiries email: recruitment@ecotp.gov.za
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must strictly apply using only the provincial Recruitment system
which is available on www.ecprov.gov.za, or https://www.ecprov.gov.za or
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/. The system is available 24/7 and closes at
23:59 on the closing date. To report technical glitches, for assistance regarding
the system, and/or for activation of your profile, send an email with your ID
Number, your profile email address, details of the issue to:
erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: For Technical Glitches Only –
No CVs). Technical support is limited to working hours: (08:00-16:30 Mon-
Thursday and 08:00-16:00 on Fri). Should you submit your applications/ CV
to: erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za .and not as specified, your
application will be regarded as lost and not be considered. Refer all application
related enquiries to the specified contact person.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly complete New Z83 form (effective 01
January 2021) obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must
submit a fully completed signed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum
Vitae. NB: Z83 in the e-recruitment system is currently not downloadable and
therefore not signable; so, applicants who submitted applications via the e-
recruitment system will not be disqualified for an unsigned Z83 instead will be
requested to sign on interview day. Shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications, and other relevant documents to HR
on or before the interview date. Applicants with foreign qualifications would be
required to submit an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) on or before the day of the interview. Failure to submit all
the requested documents will disqualify the application. Correspondence will
be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within
six (6) months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial/asset record check, qualification/study verification and previous
employment verification). Successful candidates will also be subjected to
security clearance processes. Where applicable, candidates will be subjected
to a skills/knowledge test. Successful candidates will be appointed on a
probation period of twelve (12) months. Misrepresentation in the application
documents will result in automatic disqualification and disciplinary action in the
event the candidate has already been appointed. It is the department’s
objective to address the Employment Equity Affirmative Action Measures in line
with the Employment Equity Plan and to achieve equitable representation
across race and gender. In filling of these posts gender equity and people living
with disability will be highly considered. The Department reserves the right to
amend / review / withdraw advertised posts if by so doing, the best interest of
the department will be well served. (Females and People with disabilities are
also requested to apply and indicate such in their applications). targets of the
department will be adhered to. For SMS (Senior Management Service) Posts:
In terms of DPSA Directive on compulsory capacity development, mandatory
training, and minimum entry requirements for members of the Senior
Management Level for SMS appointments, it is a requirement for applicants to
produce a pre-entry Certificate (Nyukela) as offered by the National School of
Government (NSG) for entry into the SMS posts and the full details can be
sourced by following the link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-
pre-entry-programme (the SMS pre-entry certificate is not a requirement for
shortlisting; is submitted prior to appointment. Successful candidates will be
appointed on a probation period of 12/24 months. The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Applications received
after closing date will not be considered.
68
OTHER POSTS
POST 31/96 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT REF NO: PT
1/08/2025
Purpose: To render support in Managing of Acquisition Management process
in the Department.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA) in Public Administration /
Public Management Supply Chain Management coupled with Minimum of 3
years’ work experience SCM specifically in Procurement environment at an
Officer level (Level 7 or higher).
DUTIES : Coordinate, Review and Execute the Bidding Process; Render secretariat
services to the Quotations Committee, Bid Evaluation Committee and Bid
Adjudication Committee (includes obtaining approval). Compile bid
documents. Publish tender invitations. Receiving and open bid documents.
Coordinate, Review, And Compile the List of Prospective Service Providers for
Quotations: Compile terms of reference to invite service providers for an
expression of interest. Receive, evaluate and adjudicate the expressions of
interest. Compile database of approved suppliers / service providers. Support
The Functional operation of the Sub Directorate: Supply Chain Management
(Acquisition Management); Give support to the design and development of
acquisition management policies processes and procedures. Render
assistance with the execution of the acquisition management plan. Reviewing
the acquisition management activities by ensuring compliance with SCM
prescripts. Manage Area of Responsibility: Maintain high standards by
ensuring that the team / section produces excellent work in terms of quality /
quantity and timeliness. Resolve problems of motivation and control with
minimum guidance from manager, delegating functions to staff based on
individual potential provide the necessary guidance and support and affords
staff adequate training and development opportunities, Ensure Performance
Agreements, Work Plans and Personal Development Plans (PDP’s) for all
subordinates are developed and implemented timeously. Manage employee
performance daily and ensure timely submission of Performance Assessments
of all subordinates. Ensure assets are managed, maintained and kept safely
by subordinates. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge and application of the
following prescripts. Public Finance Management Act. Supply Chain
Management Policies and Practices. Risk Management Policies and Practices.
Financial Accounting. Budget preparation. Applied Strategic Thinking. Applying
Technology. Budgeting and Financial Management. Communication and
Information Management. Continuous Improvement. Citizen Focus and
Responsiveness. Developing Others. Diversity Management. Impact and
Influence. Managing Interpersonal Conflict and Resolving Problem.
Networking and Building Bonds. Planning and organising. Problem Solving and
Decision-Making. Project Management. Team Leadership. High end IT Skills
(Microsoft and related applications). Writing and Presentation skills.
Stakeholder management. Researching. Computer literacy.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Nkonyile at 083 8755 707 / Ms. B Ndayi at 060 573 5574. For technical
glitches send an email to: erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: for
technical glitches only – no CVS).
NOTE : EE Target: African Male / Indian Male /Indian Female
POST 31/97 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PHYSICAL ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO: PT
2/08/2025
Purpose: To render transparent and effective management of physical assets.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA) in BCom in Accounting /
commerce majoring in accounting coupled with Minimum of 3 years’ work
experience Financial / Asset & Inventory Management environment at an
Officer level (Level 7 or higher). Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of AM
Legislation & Prescripts. Knowledge and application of PFMA. Project
Appraisals. Applied Strategic Thinking. Apply Technology. Budget and
Financial Management. Communication and Information Management.
Continuous Improvement. Citizen Focus and Responsiveness. Developing
69
others. Diversity Management. Impact and Influence Managing Interpersonal
Conflict and Resolving Problems. Networking and Building Bonds. Planning
and organising. Problem Solving and Decision Making. Policy Analysis. Project
Management. Team Leadership and Audit Skills.
DUTIES : Render and Implement Movable and Immovable Asset Management Policy,
Norms and Standards; Coordinate the assessments on the extent to which
asset management related controls are implemented within departments.
Facilitate and implement strategies to address gaps identified by assessment
results. Coordinate and evaluate the implementation of these corrective
strategies and provide senior management with periodic reports. Facilitate and
coordinate in the development and implementation of appropriate asset
management policy. Assist in the management, treatment and disclosure of
inventories related expenditure in compliance with the relevant guidelines.
Facilitate and coordinate the preparation of financial disclosure annexures and
notes relating to expenditure on movable and immovable assets. Issue annual
circular communicating the submission dates for the U-AMPs and C-AMPs in
terms of Section 9 of GIAMA. Facilitate and provide support in the review and
implementation of annual provincial GIAMA implementation plan by DRPW.
Assist in the revision and submission of draft U-AMPs and C-AMP to National
Treasury in conjunction with DRPW. Provide Support In Provincial
Departments with Asset Management Capacity Building: Assist in preparation
of annual assessments of provincial asset management structures for
adequacy and relevance to perform asset management function. Support the
identification of training needs and planning for relevant training. Prepare all
the necessary documentation for workshops and forums aimed at roll-out of
asset management related reforms from National Treasury as well as
enhancing provincial best practices sharing amongst practitioners. Facilitate
The Development and Maintenance of Policies, Strategies and Systems for
Asset and Inventory Management; Coordinate the development of asset and
inventory Management policies/procedure manuals and systems. Coordinate
the development of Provincial Treasury Practice notes and compliance
checklist tools with regards to assets and inventory management. Facilitate the
development of procedure guidelines to promote compliance with the reporting
standards of Manage that departments and public entities have asset and
inventory management policies and/or procedure manuals. Facilitate the
development of asset and inventory strategies in line with the service delivery
objectives. Facilitate the review of asset and inventory Management policies,
procedure manuals, systems, Treasury Practice notes and compliance
checklist tools. provide support on safeguarding of assets to departments and
entities: monitor the safeguarding of assets against destruction, theft and
obsolescence. Monitor that all losses of assets are reported, investigated and
finalized. Monitor that departments and entities have functional loss control.
provide support to departments on financial management and reporting on
assets and inventory; Monitor and support departments and public entities on
asset register, trial balance and expenditure reconciliations. Perform reviews
of Annual Financial Statements (AFS)/ Interim Financial Statements (IFS) on
asset and inventory management of departments and entities. Monitor and
support departments and public entities on the development and
implementation of audit action plan regarding management on assets and
inventory. Provide support on resolving audit findings on non-current and
current assets of the provincial departments and public entities. Monitor and
support entities on the review of Estimated Useful Life (EUL), residual values
(RV) and impairment of PPE (Property, Plant and Equipment). Provide support
to departments and entities on the valuation of assets. Provide support to
departments and public entities with financial reporting tools for interim and
annual financial statements disclosure. provide support to departments and
public entities on asset and inventory management strategies operation and
maintenance of asset and inventory management: Monitor and support
departments and entities on the implementation of life cycle asset management
strategies and value for money of assets and inventory. Monitor that
departments and entities have asset management plans operational and
maintenance. Monitor and support departments and entities to develop and
maintain complete and accurate assets and inventory registers. Monitor and
support departments and entities on the application of inventory management
techniques. Monitor and support departments and entities on asset verification
and inventory stocktaking processes. Perform periodic compliance
assessments in departments and public entities to establish compliance
70
relevant legislation. facilitate transparent and economic practices to deal with
asset disposal in the provincial administration: Monitor that obsolete,
redundant and unserviceable assets are disposed off. Monitor the
establishment of disposal committees. Monitor compliance with SCM
prescripts on asset disposal. Monitor and support departments and entities on
the reconciliation of disposal proceeds. Monitor the maintenance of proper
asset registers. Monitor compliance with internal control processes with regard
to asset disposals. facilitate the capacitation of asset and inventory
management section in the departments and entities: identify asset and
inventory management capacity GAPS and coordination strategies to address
the capacity GAPS. Facilitate on-the-job training on assets and inventory
management. Conduct workshops on policy framework, Treasury Regulations
and Accounting Norms and Standards. Facilitate training interventions on
assets and inventory management. Provide support to departments and
entities with financial reporting tools for interim and annual financial statements
disclosures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Nkonyile at 083 8755 707 / Ms. B Ndayi at 060 573 5574. For technical
glitches send an email to: erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: for
technical glitches only – no CVs).
NOTE : EE Target: African Male / Indian Male / Indian Female.
POST 31/98 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MONITORING & REPORTING (SUPPLY CHAIN
MANAGEMENT) REF NO: PT 3/08/2025
Purpose: To render support in the development of SCM governance
mechanisms and support compliance enforcement.
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF level 7 as recognized by SAQA) in Financial Management or
equivalent qualification coupled with Minimum of 3 years’ experience in SCM
Governance Compliance environment at an Officer level (Level 7 or higher).
Valid Driver’s Licence is essential.
DUTIES : analyse departmental procurement plans for monitoring: Review departmental
procurement plans and identify key procurement activities. Engage the relevant
Unit to address significant irregularities in procurement plans and ensure the
credibility and alignment of procurement plans with strategic procurement
objectives. Compile and maintain a comprehensive monitoring schedule to
track departmental procurement implementation. Liaise with departments to
clarify procurement priorities and timelines. monitor the implementation of
procurement plans in departments: Conduct monthly monitoring of
departmental procurement plan implementation. Compile and consolidate
status reports for submission to various governance structures on the status of
adherence to procurement plans. Provide departments with technical support
and interventions to address procurement delays or bottlenecks. Manage the
quarterly reporting process on adherence to procurement plans. Provide
structured feedback to departments to improve procurement performance and
accountability. Identify persistent non-performance or non-adherence issues
and escalate to the Deputy Director for further action through the Financial
Management Accountability Framework (FMAF). Conduct SCM Compliance
Assessments in Departments: Plan and conduct SCM compliance
assessments across departments in line with applicable legislation and
policies. Compile detailed reports on departmental SCM compliance status,
including recommendations to improve controls and enforce legislative
compliance. Provide formal feedback to departments on compliance findings
and required corrective actions. Monitor and report on the implementation of
departmental action plans arising from compliance assessments. Flag
repeated or unresolved SCM non-compliance issues for escalation through the
Deputy Director in accordance with the FMAF process. Skills and
Competencies: In-depth understanding of legislative framework more
specifically Supply Chain Management that governs the Public Service.
Knowledge and application of National and Provincial Treasury Instruction
Notes, Practice Notes and Circulars. Applied Strategic Thinking, Apply
Technology. Budget and Financial Management. Communication and
Information Management. Continuous Improvement, Citizen Focus and
Responsiveness. Developing others. Diversity Management, Impact and
Influence. Managing Interpersonal Conflict and Resolving Problems.
71
Networking and Building Bonds. Verbal communication and presentation skills.
Excellent writing skills. Planning and Organising. Problem Solving and
Decision Making, Policy Analysis and Project Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Nkonyile at 083 8755 707 / Ms. B Ndayi at 060 573 5574. For technical
glitches send an email to: erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: for
technical glitches only – no CVs).
NOTE : EE Target: African Male / Indian Male / Indian Female
POST 31/99 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION & ACCOUNTING
REF NO: PT 4/08/2025
Purpose: To render provision of Financial Records and Accounting services to
the department.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA) in Financial Accounting /
Financial Management or equivalent tertiary at NQF L7 with specialization in
Financial Accounting. Minimum of 3 years supervisory work experience in
Finance / Accounting / Financial Management environment at an Officer level
(Level 7 or higher). BAS certificate is essential.
DUTIES : Facilitate Clearing, Monitoring and Reconciling Suspense Accounts and
Safekeeping of Financial Records; Prepare the reconciliation and clearance of
suspense accounts. Check and rectify misallocation on suspense accounts.
Supervise the preparation of bank reconciliation. Ensure that payment
vouchers and journals are properly filed. Manage verification of payments
register. Prepare and process the adjusting journal entries with supporting
documentation. Facilitate timeous settlement of inter-departmental debts and
liability accounts. prepare monthly, quarterly and annual financial reports;
Prepare interim and annual financial statement in terms of the prescribed
Annual Financial Statement guidelines. Prepare confirmation of outstanding
debts and interdepartmental claims on a monthly basis. Prepare the age
analysis of suspense accounts and interdepartmental claims and submit to
Provincial Treasury. Manage Area of Responsibility; Maintain high standards
by ensuring that the team / section produces excellent work in terms of quality
/ quantity and timeliness. Resolve problems of motivation and control with
minimum guidance from manager. Delegating functions to staff based on
individual potential provide the necessary guidance and support and afford
staff adequate training and development opportunities. Ensure Performance
Agreements, Work Plans and Personal Development Plans (PDP’s) for all
subordinates are developed and implemented timeously. Manage employee
performance daily and ensure timely submission of Performance Assessments
of all subordinates. Ensure assets are managed, maintained and kept safely
by subordinates. Skills And Competencies: Knowledge of Legislative
Framework and Policies and Regulations that Governs the Public Services. In-
Depth knowledge of the following prescripts. Public Finance Management Act.
National Treasury Regulations. GRAP, Annual Financial Statement Guidelines.
National Treasury Practice Notes. AFS Guidelines, Financial Management.
Document management. Advanced Microsoft Excel, Word and PowerPoint. In-
depth knowledge of Legislative Framework and Policies and Regulations that
Governs the Public Services. Financial Management. Document management.
Applied Strategic Thinking, Applying Technology, Budgeting and Financial
Management. Communication and Information Management. Continuous
Improvement. Citizen Focus and Responsiveness. Developing Others,
Diversity Management, Impact and Influence, Managing Interpersonal Conflict
and Resolving Problem. Networking and Building Bonds. Planning and
organising.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Nkonyile at 083 8755 707 / Ms. B Ndayi at 060 573 5574. For technical
glitches send an email to: erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: For
Technical Glitches Only – NO CVs).
NOTE : EE Target: African Male / Indian Male / Female
POST 31/100 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF
NO: PT 5/08/2025
Purpose: To enhance, monitor and enforce transparent and effective Municipal
Supply Chain Management.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
72
CENTRE : Amathole
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA) In Supply Chain Management
/ Law / Commerce. Minimum of 3 years' work experience in Supply Chain
Management specifically in monitoring or working in a municipal environment
at an Officer level (Level 7 or higher).
DUTIES : Monitor, Evaluate and Report on Compliance with supply chain management
regulatory framework: review municipal supply chain management policies and
report on compliance to regulations. Ensure compliance with the, MFMA and
all related SCM frameworks by municipalities. Monitor and evaluate supply
management processes and report on compliance with the supply chain
management guidelines, framework, and accounting standards. Provide
support and advice on supply chain management processes, policies and
compliance to regulations. Review and Report on Contract Management;
Long- and Short-term Contracts; Irregular Expenditure; Functionality of SCM
committees; Deviations; Variations and Contract Extensions. Support, review
and Monitor SCM Procurement plans. Monitor; Review Reports on functionality
and quality SCM systems and Processes. Provide Advice, Guidance, And
Remedial Actions on SCM Issues and Monitor Remedial Actions: Review,
provide advice and guidance on the Structuring and functionality of SCM
committees. Implement Supply chain management reforms in all the delegated
municipalities and to play an oversight role in local government. Set
complimentary standards within the parameters as set by National/ Provincial
Treasury and the relevant SCM frameworks. Monitor and report on municipal
policy outcomes. Access and identify capacity gaps, provide technical
assistance and support training initiatives with regard to SCM in all delegated
municipalities. Provide assistance and advice on improving the supply chain
management function within municipalities. Monitor and report on
recommendations and remedial actions to improve supply chain management.
Provide inputs and advice into other reports related to supply chain
management. Oversee the implementation and maintenance of all transversal
SCM policies and procedure manuals in all Municipalities. Participate in the
development of all transversal SCM policies, procedure manuals and
guidelines. Ensure Compliance with the MFMA And All Related SCM
Frameworks by Municipalities: Ensure the implementation and compliance with
the operational plan. Ensure the undertaking of site visits in order to assess
compliance with SCM Regulations, Policies, etc. Conduct assessment of
contractor/supplier performance. Conduct investigation on complaints received
from relevant stakeholders. Follow-up on complaints relating to non-
compliance and implementation of recommendations arising from assessment
report. Provide Technical Assistance and Training with Regard to SCM In All
Delegated Municipalities: Report non-compliance with relevant legislations,
regulations and other initiatives by designated municipalities to the relevant
supervisor. Develop an implementation plan for transversal SCM policies,
procedure manuals and guidelines to be implemented at various institutions.
Provide advice and guidance regarding the implementation and maintenance
of transversal SCM policies, procedure manuals and guidelines. Ensure that
transversal SCM Queries or enquiries (ADHOC) are dealt with timeously.
Manage Area of Responsibility: Perform strategic and operational planning.
Manage stakeholder relationships. Oversee the administrative support
functions. Perform people management functions. Perform financial
management functions. Perform asset management functions Skills and
Competencies: In-depth understanding of legislative framework that governs
the Public Service. Risk Management policies and practices. Supply chain
management policies and practices. Asset Management policies and practices.
Departmental policies and procedures. Understanding local government
budgeting, monitoring and reporting system. Understanding of local
government financial regulatory framework. Proven knowledge on local
government legislation. Knowledge of Policy analysis and developments.
Monitoring systems and processes. Budget submission. Accounting Principles.
Strategic Capability and Leadership. Programme and Project Management,
Budget and Financial Management, Planning and organising, Technical report
writing, Negotiation and facilitation, Numeracy, Change Management,
Knowledge Management, Information Management, Service Delivery
Innovation, Creative thinking, Problem Solving and Analysis, Interpretation of
legislation, Project planning and management, Financial Management, Policy
analysis and development, People Management and Empowerment, Client
73
Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication ( verbal & written). Computer
Literacy, Extensive strategic planning.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Nkonyile at 083 8755 707 / Ms. B Ndayi at 060 573 5574. For technical
glitches send an email to: erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: For
Technical Glitches Only – No CVs).
NOTE : EE Target: African Male / Indian Male / Indian Female.
POST 31/101 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF
NO: PT 6/08/2025
Purpose: To enhance, monitor and enforce transparent and effective Municipal
Supply Chain Management.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : OR Tambo
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA) In Supply Chain Management
/ Law / Commerce. Minimum of 3 years' work experience in Supply Chain
Management specifically in monitoring or working in a municipal environment
at an Officer level (Level 7 or higher).
DUTIES : Monitor, evaluate and report on compliance with supply chain management
regulatory framework: Review Municipal Supply Chain Management policies
and report on compliance to regulations. Ensure compliance with the, MFMA
and all related SCM frameworks by municipalities. Monitor and evaluate supply
management processes and report on compliance with the supply chain
management guidelines, framework, and accounting standards. Provide
support and advice on supply chain management processes, policies and
compliance to regulations. Review and Report on Contract Management;
Long- and Short-term Contracts; Irregular Expenditure; Functionality of SCM
committees; Deviations; Variations and Contract Extensions. Support, review
and Monitor SCM Procurement plans. Monitor; Review Reports on functionality
and quality SCM systems and Processes. Provide Advice, Guidance, And
Remedial Actions on SCM Issues and Monitor Remedial Actions: Review,
provide advice and guidance on the Structuring and functionality of SCM
committees. Implement Supply chain management reforms in all the delegated
municipalities and to play an oversight role in local government. Set
complimentary standards within the parameters as set by National/ Provincial
Treasury and the relevant SCM frameworks. Monitor and report on municipal
policy outcomes. Access and identify capacity gaps, provide technical
assistance and support training initiatives with regard to SCM in all delegated
municipalities. Provide assistance and advice on improving the supply chain
management function within municipalities. Monitor and report on
recommendations and remedial actions to improve supply chain management.
Provide inputs and advice into other reports related to supply chain
management. Oversee the implementation and maintenance of all transversal
SCM policies and procedure manuals in all Municipalities. Participate in the
development of all transversal SCM policies, procedure manuals and
guidelines. ensure compliance with the MFMA and all related SCM frameworks
by municipalities: Ensure the implementation and compliance with the
operational plan. Ensure the undertaking of site visits in order to assess
compliance with SCM Regulations, Policies, etc. Conduct assessment of
contractor/supplier performance. Conduct investigation on complaints received
from relevant stakeholders. Follow-up on complaints relating to non-
compliance and implementation of recommendations arising from assessment
report. provide technical assistance and training with regard to SCM in all
delegated municipalities: Report non-compliance with relevant legislations,
regulations and other initiatives by designated municipalities to the relevant
supervisor. Develop an implementation plan for transversal SCM policies,
procedure manuals and guidelines to be implemented at various institutions.
Provide advice and guidance regarding the implementation and maintenance
of transversal SCM policies, procedure manuals and guidelines. Ensure that
transversal SCM Queries or enquiries (adhoc) are dealt with timeously.
manage area of responsibility: Perform strategic and operational planning.
Manage stakeholder relationships. Oversee the administrative support
functions. Perform people management functions. Perform financial
management functions. Perform asset management functions skills and
competencies: In-depth understanding of legislative framework that governs
the Public Service. Risk Management policies and practices. Supply chain
management policies and practices. Asset Management policies and practices.
74
Departmental policies and procedures. Understanding local government
budgeting, monitoring and reporting system. Understanding of local
government financial regulatory framework. Proven knowledge on local
government legislation. Knowledge of Policy analysis and developments.
Monitoring systems and processes. Budget submission. Accounting Principles.
Strategic Capability and Leadership. Programme and Project Management,
Budget and Financial Management, Planning and organising, Technical report
writing, Negotiation and facilitation, Numeracy, Change Management,
Knowledge Management, Information Management, Service Delivery
Innovation, Creative thinking, Problem Solving and Analysis, Interpretation of
legislation, Project planning and management, Financial Management, Policy
analysis and development, People Management and Empowerment, Client
Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication ( verbal & written). Computer
Literacy, Extensive strategic planning.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Nkonyile at 083 8755 707 / Ms. B Ndayi at 060 573 5574. For technical
glitches send an email to: erecruitmentenquiries@ectreasury.gov.za. (NB: For
Technical Glitches Only – No CVs).
NOTE : EE Target: African Male / Indian Male / Indian Female.
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS & INFRASTRUCTURE
The Department of Public Works & Infrastructure in the Eastern Cape is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer. Women, Youth and persons with disability are encouraged to apply. Employment Equity
targets of the Department will be adhered to.
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be forwarded through via the following option: All applicants
may utilise the e-recruitment system which is available on www.ecprov.gov.za
or https://e-recruitment.ecotp.gov.za
To report technical glitches, for assistance regarding the system, and/or for
activation of your profile, send an email to: e-recruitment-
bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za (NB: For Technical Glitches Only – No CVS). with your
ID Number, your profile email address, details of the issue. Technical support
is limited to working hours: (08:00-16:30 Mon-Thurs and 08:00-16:00 on Fri).
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
NOTE : Applications Received After Closing Date Will Not Be Considered. No Faxed
Applications Will Be Accepted. Applications must be submitted on a duly
completed Z83 (effective from 01 January 2021) form obtainable from any
Public Service Department or on the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents.
Applicants are not required to submit any copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents on application but must submit a fully completed signed
Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. NB: Z83 in the e-recruitment system
is currently not signable; so, applicants who submitted applications via the e-
recruitment system will not be disqualified for an unsigned Z83 instead will be
requested to sign on interview day. Shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications, and other relevant documents to HR
on or before the interview date. Applicants with foreign qualifications would be
required to submit an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) on or before the day of the interview. Failure to submit all the
requested documents will disqualify the application. Correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within six
(6) months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial/asset record check, qualification/study verification and previous
employment verification). Successful candidates will also be subjected to
security clearance processes. Where applicable, candidates will be subjected
to a skills/knowledge test. Successful candidates will be appointed on a
probation period of twelve (12) months. Misrepresentation in the application
documents will result in automatic disqualification and disciplinary action in the
event the candidate has already been appointed. The Department reserves the
right not to make appointment(s) to the advertised post(s). Persons with
disability and people from previously disadvantaged groups are encouraged to
apply. It is the department’s objective to address the Employment Equity
Affirmative Action Measures in line with the Employment Equity Plan and to
achieve equitable representation across race and gender. The Department
reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw advertised posts if by so doing,
the best interest of the department will be well served. Employment Equity
Targets of the department will be adhered to according to the approved
75
Departmental Employment Equity Plan. For SMS (Senior Management
Service) Posts: In terms of DPSA Directive on compulsory capacity
development, mandatory training, and minimum entry requirements for
members of the Senior Management Level for SMS appointments, it is a
requirement for applicants to produce a pre-entry Certificate (Nyukela) prior to
appointment as offered by the National School of Government (NSG) for entry
into the SMS posts and the full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme. (SMS
pre-entry certificate is not requirement for shortlisting is submitted prior to
appointment). Successful candidates will be appointed on a probation period
of 12/24 months. The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. Applicants are urged to use the E-Recruitment System. To
Obtain More Information on Requirements and Functions: visit
www.ecprov.gov.za or www.dpsa.gov.za or www.ecdpw.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 31/102 : HEAD OF BUILDINGS: CAPITAL WORKS REF NO: DPWI 01/08/2025
SALARY : R1 099 488 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Mount Ayliff
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, Bachelor’s degree NQF Level 7 in Electrical/
Mechanical/ Civil Engineering/ BSC/ Quantity Surveying/ Architecture/
Construction Management with six (6) years’ post qualification experience
required. Professional Registration with ECSA/SACQSP/SACAP/SACPCMP
as an Engineer/Construction Project Manager/Quantity Surveyor/Architect in
good standing is compulsory. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge And Skills:
Relevant legislation and prescripts. Relevant Departmental policies and
procedures. Public Finance Management Act. Public Service Act. Government
Programmes. Information Management. Applicable council registration
legislation, procedures and conduct. Report writing. Technical skills. Client
Focus. Networking. Computer Literacy. Diversity Management.
Communication. Negotiation. Presentation. Project Management. Strategic
Management. Conflict Resolution. Competencies: Strategic Capability and
Leadership. Communication. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. People
Management and Empowerment. Problem Analysis and Solving. Financial
Management. Programme and Project Management. Results/Quality
Management. Decision Making. Knowledge Management. Change
management.
DUTIES : Manage and monitor implementation of projects for Health/Education/Other
Provincial Departments. Manage coordination of Sub IA’s. Ensure compliance
on Construction standards and quality management. Monitor and set quality
standards on training young professionals in the built environment. Manage the
allocated resources.
ENQUIRIES : Can be directed to Ms O. Mailula Tel No: (039) 254 6795 / Ms N. Gcabi Tel No:
(039) 254 6942
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to White Females.
POST 31/103 : CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER: CAPITAL WORKS REF NO: DPWI
02/08/2025
SALARY : R879 342 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Gqeberha
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Higher Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Built
Environment Field with a minimum of 4 years and 6 months’ certified
experience/ Btech (NQF Level 7) in Built Environment Field with 4 years
certified managerial experience/ Honours Degree (NQF Level 8) in Built
Environment Field with a minimum of 3 years' experience. A valid driver's
license. Compulsory registration with the SACPCMP as Professional
Construction Project Manager. Knowledge and Skills: Public Service
Regulations, Public Service Act. Departmental service delivery principles,
PFMA. Departmental Strategic Planning. Departmental Annual Performance
Plan. Policies and Procedures. Government Programmes. Occupational
Health & Safety. Provincial Growth and Development Plan for the Eastern
Cape All other HR related public sector legislation and procedures.
76
Stakeholder and customer relationship management principles. Citizen Focus
and Responsiveness. Develop others. Applied Technology Basics. Applied
Strategic Thinking. People Management. Networking and Building Bonds.
Diversity Management. Report Writing. Computer Literacy. Negotiation.
Communication and Information Management. Presentation. Analytical.
Budget and Financial Management. Project Management. Strategic
Management. Motivational Skills. Conflict Resolution / Problem Solving Skills.
Competencies: Leadership skills. Client management. Analytical skills. Project
management. Research and development. Computer literacy. Change
management. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing.
Networking. Problem solving and analysis. Solutions-oriented. Planning,
Organising and execution. Decision making. Teamwork.
DUTIES : Manage and co-ordinate all aspects of projects Guide the project planning.
Implementation, monitoring, reporting and evaluation in line with project
management methodology; Create and execute project work plans and revise
as appropriate to meet changing needs and requirements; Identify resource
needed and assign individual responsibilities; Manage day-to-day operational
aspects of a project of scope and effectively apply methodology and enforce
project standards to minimize risk on projects. Project Accounting and Financial
Management: Report project progress to Head of Buildings-Capital Works; and
Manage Project budget and resources; Office Administration: Provide inputs to
other professionals with tender administration; Liaise and interact with service
providers, client and management; contribute to the human resources
allocated related activities; maintain the records management system and the
architectural library; and utilize resources allocated effectively. Research and
Development: Keep up with new technologies and procedures;
research/literature on new developments on projects management
technologies; and liaise with relevant bodies/councils on project management.
ENQUIRIES : Can be directed to Ms C. Bermoskie Tel No: (041) 390 9026 / Ms A. Meyer Tel
No: (041) 390 9032
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : (Preference Will Be Given to Indian Females with Disability)
POST 31/104 : ARCHITECT: INFRASTRUCTURE DELIVERY FOR EDUCATION
FACILITIES REF NO: DPWI 03/08/2025
SALARY : R761 157 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) in Architecture
with three (3) years’ post qualification architectural experience required. A valid
driver’s licence. Compulsory registration with SACAP as a Professional
Architect. Competencies: Programme and Project Management. Architectural
and Operational Compliance. Architectural Operational Communication.
Process knowledge and skills. Maintenance skills and knowledge. Mobile
equipment operating skills. Architectural principles. Research and
development. Computer-aided engineering applications. Creating high
performance culture. Technical consulting. Professional Judgement. Strategic
capability and leadership. Problem solving and analysis. Decision making.
Team Leadership. Creativity. Financial Management. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills. People Management.
Planning and organising. Conflict management. Negotiation Skills. Change
Management.
DUTIES : Perform architectural activities on state-owned or leased buildings, structures
or facilities: Co-ordinate professional teams on all aspects regarding
architecture; Ensure adherence and compliance to legal, safety and health
requirements; Provide architectural advice and technical support in the
evaluation of solutions; Ensure the adoption of technical and quality strategies;
Develop architectural related policies, methods and practices; Provide solution
on non-compliance and failure of designs; Review plans, drawings,
specifications, and estimates accomplished by building designers and/or sub-
professional personnel; and Ensure adherence to the requirements of
professional registration. Human capital development: Mentor and train
candidate architects and related technical and administrative personnel to
promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound architectural
principles and code of practice; Supervise architectural work and processes;
Administer Performance management and development. Office administration
and budget planning: Manage resources, prepare and consolidate inputs for
77
the facilitation of resource utilisation; Ensure adherence to regulations and
procedures for procurement SCM and human resource administration; Monitor
and control expenditure; Report on expenditure and service delivery. Research
and development: Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures; Research/literature studies on architecture to
improve expertise; Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on architectural-related
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S. Zazini Tel No: (040) 602 4236 / Mr L Maliti Tel No: (040) 602 4272
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to youth, African females.
POST 31/105 : QUANTITY SURVEYOR: TECHNICAL MAINTENANCE SERVICES REF NO:
DPWI 04/08/2025
SALARY : R761 157 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) with three (3)
years post qualification quantity surveyor experience is required. A valid
driver’s licence. Compulsory Registration with SACQSP as a Professional
Quantity Surveyor. Knowledge And Skills: Relevant legislation and prescripts.
Relevant Departmental policies and procedures. Public Finance Management
Act. Public Service Act. Government Programmes. Information Management.
Applicable council registration legislation, Competencies: Technical consulting.
Professional judgement. Decision making. Team Leadership. Analytical skills.
Creativity. Self-Management. People Management. Change Management.
Customer Focus and Responsiveness. Financial Management. Research and
Development. Technical Report writing.
DUTIES : Perform Quantity survey activities on buildings, structures or facilities.
Coordinate professional teams on all aspects regarding Quantity Survey.
Ensure adherence to Quantity Survey determination standards. Provide
quantity survey advice and technical support in the evaluation of costs. Ensure
administration and budget planning. Manage resources, prepare and
consolidate inputs for the facilitation of resource utilization. Ensure adherence
to regulations and procedures for procurement of SCM and personnel. Report
on delivery expenditure and service. Research and development. Continuous
professional development according to council guidelines. Research/literature
studies on quantity surveys to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on quantity survey related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Can be directed to Ms S. Zazini Tel No: (040) 602 4236 / Mr L Maliti Tel No:
(040) 602 4272
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to youth, African females.
POST 31/106 : CONTROL WORKS INSPECTOR: ELECTRICAL REF NO: DPWI 05/08/2025
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Queenstown
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate, National Diploma Electrical (T/N/S streams) or
equivalent, or A N3 and passed trade test in the built environment, or
Registration as an Engineering Technician, and, A valid driver’s license, 3
years’ experience at supervisory level Knowledge And Skills: Buildings
Regulations, Quality Control of all buildings works, Management of people,
risk, change and promotion of teamwork, Management, OHS, Good verbal,
writing and communication skills, Conflict Management skills, Computer
literacy, Client orientation and customer focus skills, Report writing skills, Self
– Management Competencies: Model high standards of performance for self
and team, Customer services, Customer Focus, People Management and
Empowerment, Problem Analysis and Solving, Self – Management, Manages
challenges and opportunities, Computer application, Engineering
Management.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate quality control of new works and maintenance projects,
Manage and monitor compliance with the National Building Regulations in
inspection of properties, manage contracts and in-house, construction by
providing technical advice and guidance in respect of compliance to
regulations, legislation and processes, attend meetings and submit reports,
Immovable Assets. Monitor SMMES with respect to quality control,
Recommend the appointment of clerk of works for each project where SMMEs
78
are appointed, Coordinate resources such that the frequency of inspections is
increased on sites where SMMEs are involved, Monitor effectiveness of
contractors and SMMEs in all the projects, Manage assistance of EPWP in
development of SMMEs, Manage resources, Identify skills development needs
and recommend training and development opportunities, Ensure quality control
and effective and efficient work flow by Works Inspectors and report on all work
allocated, Monitor proper utilization of stores, equipment and expenditure,
Administer performance and development system.
ENQUIRIES : Can be directed to Ms. N. Ndawo/Ms S. Nenene Tel No: (045) 807 6600. e-
recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to youth, Coloured females.
POST 31/107 : CONTROL WORKS INSPECTOR: FIRE SAFETY AND PREVENTION REF
NO: DPWI 06/08/2025
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Queenstown
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate, National Diploma in (T/N/S streams) or
equivalent, or A N3 and passed trade test in the building environment, or
Registration as an Engineering Technician, and A valid driver’s license. 3 years
at supervisory level Knowledge And Skills: Fire Safety Regulations, Quality
Control of all Fire Safety Works, Management of people, risk, change and
promotion of teamwork Management, Good verbal, writing and communication
skills, Conflict Management skills, Computer literacy, Client orientation and
customer focus skills, Report writing skills, Self – Management Competencies:
Model high standards of performance for self and team, Customer services,
Customer Focus, People Management and Empowerment, Problem Analysis
and Solving, Self – Management, Manages challenges and opportunities,
Computer application, Fire Safety Engineering Management.
DUTIES : Manage implementation of fire prevention legislations and standards, Manage
and monitor compliance with the National Building Regulations in inspection of
properties, Manage servicing of fire safety equipment, Manage and identify
corrective actions necessary to bring properties into compliance with applicable
fire codes, regulations and standards, Manage the activities of contractors and
provide professional advice and guidance in respect of compliance to
regulations, legislation and processes, Attend meetings and submit reports.
Manage fire protection services, manage inspections and testing of newly
installed fire protection systems in line with approved designs, conduct fire
code compliance, manage rendering of fire education, Conduct awareness on
fire safety and handling of fire equipment, manage assistance of EPWP in
development of SMMEs, Manage resources, Identify skills development needs
and recommend training and development opportunities, Ensure quality control
and effective and efficient work flow by Works Inspectors and report on all work
allocated, Monitor proper utilization of stores, equipment and expenditure,
Administer performance and development system
ENQUIRIES : Can be directed to Ms. N. Ndawo/Ms S. Nenene Tel No: (045) 807 6600. e-
recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to youth Indian females
POST 31/108 : CHIEF ARTISAN: GRADE A MAINTENANCE (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R480 261per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : East London:
Ref No: DPWI 07/08/2025, (Preference will be given to Indian females)
Ref No: DPWI 08/08/2025, (Preference will be given youth, White females)
Ref No: DPWI 09/08/2025, (Preference will be given to Coloured females)
Ref No: DPWI 10/08/2025, (Preference will be given youth, Coloured females
with disability)
Ref No: DPWI 11/08/2025, (Preference will be given to youth, Indian females
with disability)
Mthatha: Ref No: DPWI 12/08/2025, (Preference will be given to Coloured
females)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate within the built environment with ten (10)
years post qualification experience required as an Artisan/Artisan Foreman. A
valid driver’s licence. Knowledge And Skills: Public Service Regulations, Public
Service Act. Project Coordination, Technical Design and Analysis Knowledge,
Research and development Competencies: Technical design skills, Analytical
79
skills, interpersonal skills, communication skills. problem solving, decision
making, Planning & Organizing, Driving skills.
DUTIES : Manage technical services. Lead and guide the rendering of technical services
in field and workshops. Facilitate and monitor promotion of safety in line with
statutory and regulatory requirements. Provide quality assurance services in
line with specifications. Manage maintenance of technical services. Manage
servicing of all makes of technical equipment and facilities. Maintain the
technical infrastructure. Manage and monitor undertaking of daily preventative
and maintenance work. Manage administrative and related functions. Provide
inputs into the budgeting process. Compile and submit reports as required.
Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical operational plan. Manage
updating of database. Manage human and physical resources. Coach and
mentor subordinates. Compile job profiles. Develop work plans. Conduct
performance reviews. Identify training needs. Control and monitor expenditure
trends.
ENQUIRIES : Can be directed to Ms. L. Magama Tel No: (043) 711 5853/ Ms T. Vooi Tel No:
(043) 711 5763
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
POST 31/109 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BUDGET CONTROL AND EXPENDITURE REF
NO: DPWI 13/08/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mount Ayliff
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA) in Financial
Management, Internal Auditing, Cost and Management Accounting, Financial
Accounting, Financial Information Systems, Management Accounting,
Taxation, Accounting & Business Management coupled with a minimum of
three (3) years’ experience in Budget and Expenditure at Supervisory level
7/8.Certificate in Basic Accounting System (Bas General principles), LOGIS
Literacy. Valid driver’s license. LOGIS: Payment certificate and Bas: Sundry
payment will be an added advantage. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of the
PFMA, Treasury Regulations etc. Knowledge of BAS and LOGIS. Knowledge
of Financial Administration, Budget Examination and Analysis. SCOA. Planning
and Organizing, Good inter-personal relation skills, Presentation skills,
Computer Literacy, Problem Solving skills, Understanding and application of
the following prescripts: Public Finance Management Act, National Treasury
Regulations, GRAP, Public Service Regulations, Annual Financial Statement,
National Treasury, Practice Notes, Provincial MTEF guidelines, Budget
Circulars and Departmental Budget Policies, Microsoft Excel, Word and
PowerPoint, Financial and management accounting.
DUTIES : Monitor compliance with PFMA from programmes. Monitor, identify and advise
programmes on over/under expenditure. Supervise the preparation working
paper for implementation of adjustments. Monitor the implementation of
virements and shifting’s. Monitor and give technical advice on the availability
of funds. Compile the consolidation of budget inputs from various Programmes.
Prepare the budget in line with the database. Monitor preparation of working
paper and workbook before loading. Monitor and ensure payment of suppliers
within 30 days. Draw invoice detailed reports. Pre- authorization /final
authorization of payments on LOGIS system. Update invoice tracking register
(Reapatala). Draw disbursement reports and payments stubs. Facilitate
creditor’s reconciliation. Compile a risk management profile for the section.
Supervise the allocated resources by Maintain high standards ensuring that
the team / section produces excellent work in terms of quality / quantity and
timeliness. Resolve problems of motivation and control with minimum guidance
from manager. Delegate functions to staff based on individual potential provide
the necessary guidance and support and afford staff adequate training and
development opportunities. Ensure timeously development of job description
and implementation of Work Plans and Personal Development Plans (PDP’s)
for all employees in the sub-directorate. Manage daily employee performance
and ensure timely Performance Assessments of all subordinates. Ensure
management, maintenance and safekeeping of assets practice, and to develop
appropriate skills.
ENQUIRIES : Can be directed to Ms O. Mailula Tel No: (039) 254 6795 / Ms N. Gcabi Tel No:
(039) 254 6942
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to youth, African females.
80
POST 31/110 : CHIEF WORKS INSPECTOR: FIRE SAFETY AND PREVENTION REF NO:
14/08/2025
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma NQF level 6 in fire safety/ fire
technology (T/N/S streams) or equivalent, N3 and a passed Trade Test in Fire
Safety and Prevention with three (3) years’ experience as a Works Inspector.
A valid driver’s license Knowledge and Skills: Fire Safety Regulations, Quality
Control of all Fire Safety Works, Management of people, risk, change and
promotion of teamwork, good verbal, writing and communication skills, Conflict
Management skills, Computer literacy Client orientation and customer focus
skills, Report writing skills, Self- Management.
DUTIES : Implement fire prevention regulations and standards. Implement and monitor
compliance with the National Building Regulations in inspection of properties.
Implement servicing of fire safety equipment. Implement corrective actions
necessary to bring properties into compliance with applicable fire codes,
regulations and standards. Implement the activities of contractors and provide
professional advice and guidance in respect of compliance to regulations,
legislation and processes. Implement fire protection Conduct inspections and
testing of newly installed fire. Protection systems in line with approved designs.
Conduct fire code compliance. Render fire education. Render awareness on
fire safety and handling of fire equipment. Assist EPWP in the development of
SMMEs. Supervise resources. Identify skills development needs and
recommend training and development opportunities. Ensure quality control and
effective and efficient workflow by Work Inspectors and report on all work
allocated. Monitor proper utilization of stores, equipment and expenditure.
Administer performance and development system.
ENQUIRIES : for Mthatha posts: contact Ms. V Potelwa Tel No: (047) 505 2835/ Mr M. Bonde
Tel No: (047) 505 2767
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to youth, coloured females.
POST 31/111 : CHIEF WORKS INSPECTOR: MECHANICAL REF NO: DPWI 15/08/2025
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mount Ayliff
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (T/N/S streams) or equivalent, or
A N3 and passed trade test in the building environment, or Registration as an
Engineering Technician, and A valid driver’s license. 3 years’ experience as a
Works Inspector. Knowledge and Skills: Buildings Regulations, Quality Control
of all buildings works, Management of people, risk, change and promotion of
teamwork, Management, OHS, Good verbal, writing and communication skills,
Conflict Management skills, Computer literacy, Client orientation and customer
focus skills, Report writing skills, Self – Management. Competencies: Model
high standards of performance for self and team, Customer service, Customer
Focus, People Management and Empowerment, Problem Analysis and
Solving, Self – Management, Manages challenges and opportunities,
Computer application, Engineering Management.
DUTIES : Conduct and supervise quality control of new works and maintenance projects,
Supervise and monitor compliance with the National Building Regulations in
inspection of properties, Supervise and monitor contracts and in-house
construction by providing technical advice and guidance in respect of
compliance to regulations, legislation and processes. Attend meetings and
submit reports, Conduct condition assessment on government used facilities,
Conduct and supervise inspections on DPW used buildings, coordinate
condition assessment report with a view of effecting maintenance, Conduct and
supervise inspections on client used/leased buildings, coordinate condition
assessment report with a view to advise Immovable Assets. Monitor SMMES
with respect to quality control, Recommend the appointment of clerk of works
for each project where SMMEs are appointed, Coordinate resources such that
the frequency of inspections is increased on sites where SMMEs are involved,
Monitor effectiveness of contractors and SMMEs in all the projects, Provide
assistance to EPWP in development of SMMEs, Supervise resources, Identify
skills development needs and recommend training and development
opportunities, Ensure quality control and effective and efficient workflow by
81
Works Inspectors and report on all work allocated, monitor proper utilization of
stores, equipment and expenditure, Administer performance and development
system.
ENQUIRIES : Can be directed to Ms O. Mailula Tel No: (039) 254 6795 / Ms N. Gcabi Tel No:
(039) 254 6942/ Mr M. Tshwaku Tel No: (051) 611 9800
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to youth, African females
POST 31/112 : ARTISAN FOREMAN: GRADE A: MAINTENANCE (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R382 047 per annum, (OSD)
CETRE : Queenstown: Ref No: DPWI 16/08/2025 (X2 Posts), (Preference will be given
to Coloured Females and White Males)
Umtata: Ref No: 17/08/2025, (Preference will be given to Indian females with
disability)
REQUIREMENTS : Trade Test Certificate in any Built environment with five (5) years’ post
qualification experience required as an Artisan. A valid driver’s license.
Knowledge And Skills: Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act. Project
Coordination, Technical Design and Analysis Knowledge, Research and
development. Competencies: Technical report writing, Analytical skills,
interpersonal skills, communication skills, problem solving, Teamwork,
Planning & Organizing, Conflict management. Decision Making.
DUTIES : Supervise and produce designs according to client specifications and within
limits of production capability. Conduct quality assurance of produced objects,
Inspect equipment and / or facilities for technical faults. Repair equipment and
facilities according to standards. Test repair equipment and / or facilities against
specification. Quality assured serviced and maintained equipment. Update
register of maintained and repaired faults. Compile and submit reports, Ensure
adherence to safety standards, requirements and regulations. Provide input
into operational plans. Supervise and mentor staff. Conduct performance
reviews and Identity training needs.
ENQUIRIES : Can be directed to Ms. N. Ndawo Tel No: (045) 807 6676 / Ms. S. Nenene Tel
No: (045) 807 6677/ Ms V Potelwa Tel No: (047) 505 2835/ Mr M. Bonde Tel
No: (047)505 2767
e-recruitment Technical Enquires: erecruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
POST 31/113 : CHIEF SECURITY OFFICER: FACILITIES AND SECURITY REF NO: DPWI
18/08/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
SALARY : Nelson Mandela Bay
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma NQF Level 6 in Security
Management/ Security Risk Management/ Policing with 1–2 years’ experience
in security management. Registration with PSIRA at Grade: B. A valid driver’s
license. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of the access control procedures,
Knowledge of measures of control and movement of equipment & stores,
Prescribes security procedures e.g MIS, NISA, Protection of Information Act,
Emergency Procedures. Computer Skills. Communication skills, Read and
write.
DUTIES : Manage and monitor access control to the buildings: Define services that the
visitors require, Ensure that visitors are referred to the relevant service delivery
point, Check completeness of the admission control registers , Provide
admission control documents/cards as required, Ensure that visitors are
escorted to relevant employees/venues where required, Ensure that
unauthorized persons and dangerous objects do not enter the
building/premises, Report breaches and follow-up on incidence. Travel long
distances and even beyond normal working hours to ensure compliance by
security service providers contracted to the Department. Manage undertaking
of building/premises patrols: Ensure that all entrances are locked and
unlocked, check water leaks and that taps are closed, Identify and check fire
hazards, exposed electrical contacts and other fire hazards, Check lights,
switch on and off as required, Check and report suspicious objects and
packages, Monitor application of emergency procedures. Ensure maintenance
and safe keeping of equipment, documents and stores of the Department:
Check completeness of registers to control the movement of equipment, stores
and documents, Confirm that no equipment, stores and assets of the
department leave the building/premises unauthorized, Inspect vehicles
82
entering and leaving the premises, Analyze gathered information or reports on
missing and stolen equipment and stores, Manage handling of documents at
points of entry according to classification and the prescript. Ensure
maintenance and safe record keeping of registers: Check and verify all
recorded incidences in the occurrence book/register, Check and verify all
submitted weekly, monthly registers. Facilitation of procurement for security
services: Prepare documentation for procurement of service providers. Check
and verify accuracy of works orders, time sheets and invoices. Prepare
documentation for payment of service providers.
ENQUIRIES : Can be directed to Ms C. Bermoskie Tel No: (041) 390 9026 / Ms A. Meyer Tel
No: (041) 390 9032
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to youth, white males with disability.
POST 31/114 : SCM OFFICER: FLEET MANAGEMENT REF NO: DPWI 19/08/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : East London
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma NQF Level 6 in Fleet
Management/ Financial Management/ Cost and Management Accounting/
Public Management with 1-2 years’ experience in Fleet Management Unit. A
valid driver’s license. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of clerical duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting
statistics. Computer Literacy Skills, Planning and organisation, Language,
Good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Monitor and evaluate compliance of transport and fleet management
legislations: Monitor compliance with transport / fleet legislation and procedure,
Monitor regular maintenance and licensing of GG vehicles, Complete of trip
authorities is line prescribe policies, Facilitate availability of infrastructure for
safe, keeping GG vehicles, Provide required information on transport misuse,
Investigation, Ensure proper completion and regular scrutiny of all transport
and fleet management records: Development of vehicle inspection tool, Ensure
inspection identified defects attended, Ensure of the optimal use of all FML–
vehicles, Ensure and adhere to subsidies vehicle policies and Procedures
Assist with the implementation of transport legislations: Rendering of transport
advice to functionaries regarding transport procedures and policies, Assist with
the coordination of the implementation of policy directives for Transport and
Fleet Management in the regions, Identification of guidelines and policy gaps
and invite inputs from stakeholders, Provide inputs in the development of
Provincial Policies, Assist in the development of proactive strategies to prevent
transport malpractice’s in the department, Perform administrative and related
functions: Ensure that reports are done and submitted timeously, Ensure that
filing of records is maintained in line with relevant standards Supervise the
allocated resources: Maintain high standards by ensuring that the team /
section produces excellent work in terms of quality / quantity and timeliness,
Resolve problems of motivation and control with minimum guidance from
manager, Delegate functions to staff based on individual potential provide the
necessary guidance and support and afford staff adequate training and
development opportunities, Ensure timeously development of job description
and implementation of Work Plans and Personal Development Plans (PDP’s)
for all employees in the sub-directorate, Manage daily employee performance
and ensure timely Performance Assessments of all subordinates, Ensure
management, maintenance and safekeeping of assets practice, and to develop
appropriate skills.
ENQUIRIES : Can be directed to Ms. L. Magama Tel No: (043) 711 5853/ Ms T. Vooi Tel No:
(043) 711 5763
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : (preference will be given to youth, white males)
POST 31/115 : SCM OFFICER: DEMAND MANAGEMENT REF NO: DPWI 20/08/2024
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma NQF Level 6 in Supply Chain
Management/Public Management/Public Administration/Logistics/Cost &
Management Accounting with 1-2 years’ relevant experience. A valid Driver’s
license. Knowledge And Skills: National Treasury prescripts and circulars,
83
Provincial Treasury Prescripts and Circulars, SCM Delegations, Policies and
Prescripts, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations of 2016, Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA), Applicable Legislation and Prescripts,
CIBD, BBBEE, PPPFA, Policies and Procedures People Management, Report
Writing, Computer Literacy, Negotiation, Communication, Information
Management, Presentation Analytical, Budget and Financial Management,
Motivational, Conflict Resolution / Problem Solving, KPA’S Render demand
management services: Verify correctness and completeness of documents
submitted, select service providers on CSD (threshold below R30 000), Verify
specifications.
DUTIES : Compile Tender Documents; Check compliance on submitted documents and
issue SCMU number, Review tender documents, Place adverts for tenders,
maintain tender register and compile monthly reports on bids advertised,
Render secretariat duties, receive requests from programs and draft an
agenda, inform members for bid specification committee sitting, Review
corrections and advertise on relevant media, Attend briefing sessions where
applicable and record minutes. Render administrative functions; Open file for
each project approved, copy all documents per checklist, Record and submit
to Acquisitions, Record requests; Verify supporting documents, Records all
request in the incoming register and submit to Acquisitions.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms S. Zazini Tel No: (040) 602 4236 / Mr L Maliti Tel No:
(040) 602 4272
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Youth White Males.
POST 31/116 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: SALARIES (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
Mount Ayliff: Ref No: DPWI 21/08/2025, (Preference will be given to Youth,
Coloured Females)
Aliwal North: Ref No: DPWI 22/08/2025, (Preference will be given to Youth,
Coloured Males with Disability)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma NQF level 6 in Financial
Management/ Internal Auditing/ Cost and Management Accounting/ Financial
Accounting/ Financial Information Systems/ Management Accounting/
Taxation/ Accounting and Financial Planning with 1 - 2 years’ experience in
salaries. Valid driver’s license Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of the PFMA,
Treasury Regulations etc. Knowledge of PERSAL and BAS. Knowledge of
Financial Administration, Knowledge of SCOA. Planning and Organizing, Good
interpersonal relation skills, Presentation skills, Computer Literacy, Problem
Solving skills, Understanding and application of the following prescripts: Public
Finance Management Act, National Treasury Regulations, Public Service
Regulations, National Treasury, Practice Notes, PERSAL & BAS notices
PSCBC Regulations. Provincial MTEF guidelines, Budget Circulars and
Departmental Budget Policies, Microsoft Excel, Word and PowerPoint,
Financial and management accounting.
DUTIES : Coordinate and facilitate payroll management. Collect and distribute payrolls
to pay points Managers. Print from EDD and distribute salary advice to the
employees that have no access to emails. Coordinate register of delayed
payrolls. Make follow ups on comments made by pay point managers. Print
from EDD and Issue IRP 5s to employees who have no access to emails.
Coordinate appointment of pay point managers. Perform salary administration
support services. Capture salaries, bonuses, salary adjustments and
deductions. Capture & approve salary-related payments. File all documents.
Clear salary accounts. Clear and reconcile salary related suspense accounts
on monthly basis. Clear all PERSAL exceptions on monthly basis before BAS
system closure and that PERSAL & BAS expenditure is reconciled and
submitted. Reverse and recover all overpayments. Render general
administration support services. Report on salary related processes. Assist in
compilation of monthly, quarterly and annual reports.
ENQUIRIES : Can be directed to Ms O. Mailula Tel No: (039) 254 6795 / Ms N. Gcabi Tel No:
(039) 254 6942/ Mr M. Tshwaku Tel No: (051) 611 9800
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
84
POST 31/117 : CHIEF REGISTRY CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DPWI 23/08/2025
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mount Ayliff
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma NQF Level 6 in Records
Management/ Public Management/ Human Resource Management with 1-2
years’ experience in records management/ HR registry environment. A valid
driver’s license. Knowledge And Skills: Customer service. Relevant
Government policies and Directives. Public Service Regularity Framework.
Report writing. Negotiation. Interpersonal relations. Communication.
Facilitation. Computer literacy. Attention to detail. Presentation. Working in a
team. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to work as a team and alone. Ability
to handle confidential correspondence. Good communication skills (verbal and
written). Competencies: Professional Ethics. Information management. Time
management. Programme and project management. Ability to work with limited
supervision. Taking initiative. Contribute positively to the core values and ethics
of the department.
DUTIES : Maintain efficient and effective record keeping and file management.
Implement and maintain the electronic records management system. Ensure
that the file plan is up to date in line with changes of the department. Keep
control over filing to prevent unnecessary duplicates or bulky items from being
placed on files. Custody and safe keeping of register of files opened.
Destruction register and register authorities. Responsible for closure of records
and tracing of records. Dispatching of outgoing items/ correspondence. Direct
supervision and in-service training of registry personnel. Ensure proper
archiving documents. Ensure that all files comply with NIMR Requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Can be directed to Ms O. Mailula Tel No: (039) 254 6795 / Ms N. Gcabi Tel No:
(039) 254 6942
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : (preference will be given to youth, African males with disability)
POST 31/118 : WORKS INSPECTOR: TECHNICAL SERVICES: GENERAL BUILDINGS (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : East London: Ref No: DPWI 29/08/2025, (Preference will be given to African
females)
Mount Ayliff: Ref No: DPWI 30/08/2025, (Preference will be given to youth,
African females)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma NQF Level 6 in Building, with 1-
2 years’ experience, or N3 and passed Trade Test in Buildings. Computer
literacy and a valid driver’s license are compulsory. Knowledge and Skills:
Project Coordination, Technical Design and Analysis Knowledge, Research
and development.
DUTIES : Render a basic inspection service of work done on minor and existing
structures on a project basis. Maintain electronic record system of work done
and work that was finalized. Analyse and compile relevant documents for work
to be done on minor or existing structures. Oversee work of contractors.
ENQUIRIES : Can be directed to Ms. L. Magama Tel No: (043) 711 5853/ Ms T. Vooi Tel No:
(043) 7115763
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
POST 31/119 : WORKS INSPECTOR: TECHNICAL SERVICES: ELECTRICAL REF NO:
DPWI 31/08/2025
SALARY : R269 499 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : East London
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma NQF Level 6 in Electrical
Engineering with 1- 2 years’ experience, or N3 and passed Trade Test in
Electrical. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge And Skills: Buildings Regulations
Quality Control of all buildings works. Management of people, risk, change and
promotion of teamwork. Management. OHS. Good verbal, writing and
communication skills. Conflict Management skills. Computer literacy. Client
orientation and customer focus skills.
DUTIES : Conduct quality control of new works and maintenance projects. Monitor
compliance with the National Building Regulations in inspection of properties.
85
Monitor contracts and in-house construction by providing technical advice and
guidance in respect of compliance to regulations, legislation and processes.
Attend meetings and submit reports. Conduct condition assessment on
government used facilities. Conduct inspections on DPW used buildings,
compile condition assessment report with a view of effecting maintenance.
Conduct inspections on client used/leased buildings, compile condition
assessment report. Attend meetings and submit reports. Monitor SMMES with
respect to quality control. Conduct increased inspections, as required, on sites
where SMMEs are involved. Monitor effectiveness of contractors and SMMEs
in all the projects. Provide assistance to EPWP in development of SMMEs.
Render administrative functions. Filing and proper maintenance of contracts,
minutes and reports. Write and submit reports with all relevant information.
ENQUIRIES : Can be directed to Ms. L. Magama Tel No: (043) 711 5853/ Ms T. Vooi Tel No:
(043) 711 5763 e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-
bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to African females.
POST 31/120 : LEGAL ADMIN OFFICER REF NO: DPWI 24/08/2025
SALARY : R252 855 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, LLB (or as otherwise determined by the Minister of
Justice and Constitutional Development). No previous post graduate legal
experience is required but will be an added advantage. Knowledge And Skills:
Knowledge of the Constitution, PFMA, Civil Procedure, PAJA, PAIA, POPIA,
computer literacy, analytical thinking, legal drafting, dispute resolution,
negotiation skills, legal research, good verbal and written communication skills,
willingness to learn, take initiative and contribute to unit’s objectives.
DUTIES : Provide legal advice/opinion. Litigation Management including drafting of legal
correspondence and general file management. Preparation of instructions to
the State Attorneys. Draft, vet and scrutinize various types of agreements/legal
instruments such as service level agreements, memoranda of understanding,
memoranda of agreement, leases, departmental policies, etc. Display an
understanding of drafting legal documents that provide clear motivation/
justification for a particular position pertaining to a case, also proposing the
approach to be followed to ensure success on the matter. Conduct thorough
legal research using established principles to inform case strategies and
compliance with legislation, regulations and policy. Display knowledge of
interviewing principles for the purposes of determining client’s goals and
objectives. Suggest possible courses of action during the consultation process,
in relation to legal entitlements and client’s instruction, and discuss these with
the supervisor. Accurately document an consultation and all advice given.
Achieve excellence in delivering planned customer service outcomes (i.e
service level and standards) for the department and monitoring the unit’s
service delivery in order to achieve the service delivery targets and to ensure
the highest level of customer care and satisfaction. Measure and improve or
upgrade work methods, procedures and systems and decrease costs in order
to improve the quality and cost efficiency of services rendered to clients. Adapt
to diverse cultural practices, customs, values and norms to individuals and
groups to meet equity requirements, contribute to the transformation of work
unit and department. Assist with administrative and reporting tasks and
operations of the legal unit. Collect data and information, analyse and translate
information into knowledge for planning, decision making or management
reporting and communicate and distribute to different audiences, using a
variety of information and ICT communication technologies (i.e, intranet, e-
mail, video conferencing, etc.) in order to provide and communicate information
effectively. Conduct awareness on root causes leading to litigation and possible
mitigation measures. Submit monthly and quarterly reports to the Senior Legal
Administration Officer.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms S. Zazini Tel No: (040) 602 4236 / Mr L Maliti Tel No:
(040) 602 4272
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to youth, Indian males with disability.
POST 31/121 : ARTISAN CARPENTRY: GRADE A: MAINTENANCE (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R243 597 per annum, (OSD)
86
CENTRE : East London: Ref No: DPWI 25/08/2025, (Preference will be given to African
Mount Ayliff: Ref No: DPWI 26/08/2025, (Preference will be given to youth,
coloured females)
Queenstown: Ref No: DPWI 27/08/2025, (Preference will be given to youth,
African females)
Mthatha: Ref No: DPWI 28/08/20205, (Preference will be given to coloured
females)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate (Carpentry). A valid driver’s license.
Experience required as an Apprentice/Learner. Knowledge And Skills: Public
Service Regulations, Public Service Act. Project Coordination, Technical
Design and Analysis Knowledge, Research and development Competencies:
Technical report writing, Analytical skills, interpersonal skills, communication
skills. problem solving, Teamwork, Planning & Organizing, Conflict
management. Decision making.
DUTIES : Produce designs according to client specification and within limits of production
capability. Produce objects with material and equipment according to job
specification and recognized standards. Quality assurance of produced
objects. Inspect equipment and/ or facilities for technical faults. Repair
equipment and facilities according to standards. Test repair equipment and/or
facilities against specification. Quality assures serviced and maintained
equipment. Update register of maintained and repaired faults. Compile and
submit reports. Keep and maintain job record. Provide inputs into operational
plans. Supervise and mentor staff. Maintain continuous individual development
to keep up with new technologies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Can be directed to Ms. L. Magama Tel No: (043) 711 5853/ Ms T. Vooi Tel No:
(043)711 5763/ Ms. S. Nenene Tel No: (045) 807 6677
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
POST 31/122 : ARTISAN BRICKLAYING: GRADE A MAINTENANCE REF NO: DPWI
32/08/2025
SALARY : R243 597 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Queenstown
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate (Bricklaying). A valid driver’s license.
Experience required as an Apprentice/Learner. Knowledge And Skills: Public
Service Regulations, Public Service Act, Technical and analysis skills, Self-
management, communication skills, problem solving, decision making,
Planning & Organizing, Driving skills.
DUTIES : Build and repair structures, Build walls, partition, extensions in buildings Install,
repair paving works, Pour surface beds, Pour aprons, channels Pour concrete
footings, Back-filling, Do topping, Do screeding, Do floating, Do skimming, Do
reveals, Do soffits, Inspect facilities for technical faults, Repair facilities
according to standards, Compile and submit reports, Provide inputs to the
operational plan, Test work done in the facilities against specifications, Service
facilities according to schedule, Undertake daily maintenance work, Inspect
and monitor quality of the technical work, Keep and maintain job
record/register, Supervise and mentor staff.
ENQUIRES : Can be directed to Ms. N. Ndawo Tel No: (045) 807 6676 / Ms. S. Nenene Tel
No: (045) 807 6677 / Ms. S. Gongqa Tel No: (045) 087 6706 e-recruitment
Technical Enquires: erecruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to youth, coloured males with disability.
POST 31/123 : REGISTRY CLERK: CONDITIONS OF SERVICE REF NO: DPWI 32/08/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. No Experience required. Knowledge &
Skills: National Archives Act and Record Management Act, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act. Batho Pele Principles. Legislative Requirement: Public
Service Act and Regulations. Skills: Client Orientation & customer care, Verbal
and written Communication. Interpersonal relation Problem solving. Organizing
skills.
DUTIES : Safe keeping of records; Opening and closing of HR files; Filing of
correspondence; Number of folios. Circulate correspondence. Record
documents for circulation. Maintain file index (NMIR). Open files according to
file index; Regular checking files in terms of file index. Control movement of
files: Issue to relevant HR staff; Diarize return of files.
87
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms S. Zazini Tel No: (040) 602 4236 / Mr L Maliti Tel No:
(040) 602 4272
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to youth Indian males.
POST 31/124 : HR CLERK: RECRUITMENT & SELECTION: CORPORATE SERVICES (X4
POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE Bhisho Ref No: DPWI 33/08/2025, (X2 Posts), (Preference will be given to
youth, coloured males with disability and youth-coloured males)
Mount Ayliff: Ref No: DPWI 34/08/2025, (Preference will be given to youth,
African males)
Mthatha: Ref No: DPWI 35/08/2025, (Preference will be given to youth, African
females with disability)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no experience required. Knowledge & Skills:
Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Batho Pele Principles, Interpersonal
skills, Problem Solving and Organizing skills. Decision Making and Conflict
Resolution skills; Written and Oral Communication skills; Demonstrate the
ability to use the following IT Software: MS Office Package (MS Word, MS
Excel, MS Outlook and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Human Resource Provisioning Services. Process advertising of positions,
recruitment, selection and filling of positions. Process validation of
qualifications. Process assumption of duties. Process issuing of letters of
appointment contracts. Process confirmation of probation appointments.
Process personnel utilization through transfers, translations in rank,
promotions and secondments.
ENQUIRIES : Can be directed to Ms S. Zazini Tel No: (040) 602 4236 / Ms O. Mailula Tel No:
(039) 254 6795 / Ms V Potelwa Tel No: (047) 505 2835/ e-recruitment Technical
Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
POST 31/125 : SENIOR SECURITY OFFICER: FACILITIES & OPERATIONS
MANAGEMENT (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE Nelson Mandela Bay: Ref No: DPWI 36/08/2025, (Preference will be given to
Youth, Coloured Females)
Mthatha: Ref No: DPWI 37/08/2025, (Preference will be given to Youth,
Coloured Females)
Mount Ayliff: Ref No: DPWI 38/08/2025, (Preference will be given to Youth,
Coloured Females with Disability)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior certificate, no experience required. Security Certificate, Grade
B PSIRA certificate is compulsory. knowledge and skills: Knowledge of the
access control procedures, Knowledge of measures of control and movement
of equipment & stores, Prescribes security procedures e.g MIS, NISA,
Protection of Information Act, Emergency Procedures. Stakeholders
Engagement; Financial Management, Policy Implementation, People
Management, Process implementation, customer and quality management,
problem solving skills, strategic capability and leadership, self-leadership,
communication skills, computer skills, planning and organisation skills,
programme and project management, negotiation and presentation skills.
DUTIES : Perform access control functions: Determine appointments/ or services that
visitors require, Contact relevant employee to confirm appointment, or refer
visitor to the relevant service delivery point, Complete or ensure that the
admission control register is completed, Issue admission control
documents/cards as required, Escort /visitors to relevant employees/venues
where required, Lock and unlock entrances, Ensure that unauthorized persons
and dangerous objects do not enter the building/premises, Follow-up on
incidence. Undertake building/premises patrols: Identify and check doors are
locked or unlocked as required Check water leaks and that taps are closed,
Identify and check fire hazards, exposed electrical contacts and other fire
hazards, Check lights, switch on and off as required, Check suspicious objects
and packages and report, Apply emergency procedures. Ensure safe keeping
of equipment, documents and stores of the Department: Complete registers to
control the movement of equipment, stores and documents, Confirm that no
equipment, stores and assets of the department leave the building/premises
unauthorized, Inspect vehicles entering and leaving the premises, Gather
88
information and report on missing and stolen equipment and stores, Handle
documents at points of entry according to classification and the prescript.
Maintenance and safe record keeping of registers: Record all incidents in the
occurrence book/register, Submit registers weekly, monthly to the relevant
person. Ensure monitoring of security guards: Conduct site inspections to
monitor posting, compliance to security procedures and protocols. Travel long
distances and even beyond normal working hours. Receive time sheets in line
with posting from service providers. Submit time sheets to Chief Security
Officer for payments.
ENQUIRIES : Can be directed to Ms C. Bermoskie Tel No: (041) 390 9026 / Ms A. Meyer at
Tel No: (041) 390 9032/ Ms. V Potelwa Tel No: (047) 505 2835/ Mr M. Bonde
Tel No: (047) 505 2767 e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-
bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
POST 31/126 : REGISTRY CLERK: OFFICE SERVICES: CORPORATE SERVICES REF
NO: DPWI 39/08/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mount Ayliff
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. No Experience required. Knowledge &
Skills: National Archives guide and Record Service, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act. Batho Pele Principles. Department Policy occupational health
and safety. Public Finance Management Act. Legislative Requirement: COIDA.
Public Service Act. PFMA and National Treasury Regulations. Public Service
Act. Public Service Regulations. Skills: Verbal and written Communication.
Interpersonal relation Problem solving. Organizing skills.
DUTIES : Provide registry counter services: Attend to clients. Handle telephonic and
other enquiries received. Receive and register hand delivered mail / files.
Handle incoming and outgoing correspondence: Receive all mail. Sort, register
and dispatch mail. Distribute notices on registry issues. Render an effective
filing and record management services: Opening and close files according to
record classification system. Filing / storage, tracing (electronically/manually)
and retrieval of documents and files. Complete index cards for all files. Operate
office machines in relation to the registry function: Open and maintain franking
machine register. Frank post, record money and update register on a daily
basis. Undertake spot checks on post to ensure no private post is included.
Lock post in postbag for messengers to deliver to Post Office. Open and
maintain remittance register. Record all valuable articles as prescribed in the
remittance register. Hand delivers and signs over remittances to finance. Send
wrong remittances back to sender via registered post and record reference
number in register. Keep daily record of amount of letters franked. Process
documents for archiving and / disposal: Electronic scanning files. Sort and
packages files for archives and distribution. Compile list of all documents to be
archived and submit to the supervisor. Keep records for archived documents.
ENQUIRIES : Can be directed to Ms. L. Magama Tel No: (043) 711 5853/ Ms T. Vooi Tel No:
(043) 711 5763/ Ms O. Mailula Tel No: (039) 254 6795 / Ms N. Gcabi Tel No:
(039) 254 6942 e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-
bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : (preference will be given to youth, coloured females)
POST 31/127 : SCM CLERK: LOGISTICS (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : East London Ref No: DPWI 40/08/2025 (X3 Posts) (Preference will be given to
Youth, African Males, Youth Coloured Females, & African Females)
Mthatha Ref No: DPWI 41/08/2025 (Preference will be given to youth African
Males)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. No experience required Knowledge &
Skills: Public Service Regulations, 2001 as amended, Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Act no
108 of 1996, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA), Broad-
Based black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE), Public Administration, Public
Services Legislation, Management of diversity, Supply Chain Management
Framework. Communication, Teamwork, Reliability.
DUTIES : The utilization of LOGIS module to generate Commitment: Authorize
requisitions on selection RQAT, Teamwork on approved on Logis and provision
advise generated. Render logistical support services: Place orders for goods,
89
receive goods from supplies, Capture goods in registers databases, Receive
request for goods from end users, Maintain goods register, Update and
maintain register of suppliers. Reconciling requisition to orders: Ensure that the
requisition captured on Procurement Integration, Ensure that information is
correctly captured, Ensure that the captured allocations, is according to the
Budget (BAS report), Verify if the correct supplier is captured and the approved
quotation, Receive and return of Goods and Services: The commitments are
kept in the 0-9 file awaiting on delivery, Upon delivery, services are confirmed
to be rendered, Receipt and issuing on the Logis system are captured and
verified, Documents are recorded on a register, and forward to payments.
ENQUIRIES : Can be directed to Ms. L. Magama Tel No: (043) 711 5853/ Ms T. Vooi Tel No:
(043) 7115763/ Ms. V Potelwa Tel No: (047) 505 2835/ Mr M. Bonde Tel No:
(047) 505 2767 e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-
bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
POST 31/128 : HR CLERK: CONDITIONS OF SERVICE REF NO: DPWI 42/08/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mount Ayliff
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no experience required. Knowledge And Skills:
Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Batho Pele Principles Interpersonal,
Problem Solving and organizing skills. Decision Making and Conflict Resolution
skills; Written and Oral Communication skills; Demonstrate the ability to use
the following IT Software: MS Office Package (MS Word, MS Excel, MS
Outlook and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Execute functions relating to: Conditions of service for DPWI and Public
Service staff, e.g. Leave administration. Rendering an exit management
service. Render general administrative duties regarding service benefits.
General administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Can be directed to Ms O. Mailula Tel No: (039) 254 6795 / Ms N. Gcabi Tel No:
(039) 254 6942 e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-
bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to youth, coloured males with disability.
POST 31/129 : ADMIN CLERK: DISTRICT COORDINATION: EPWP REF NO: DPWI
43/08/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate. No experience required. Knowledge: Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA); Prescripts; DORA, PEPs, Public Service
Regulations, BBBEE Act, EPWP Policy. EPWP phase 3 guidelines National
Development Plan. Ministerial Determination. Constitution of the Republic of
South Africa, Act No.108 of 1996.Occupational Health and Safety Act.
Computer literacy skills. Diagnostic skills. Analytical skills. Problem solving
skills. Policy development skills.
DUTIES : Office Support-Organize venue for meetings, and bookings. Attend to incoming
and outgoing correspondence. Writing of minutes. Liaise with Public bodies
regarding general administrative-related issues. Provide support to the
secretariat for the functional steering committees in accordance with EPWP
norms & standards. Facilitate the Data capturing of DPW&I and Public Bodies
in the EPWPRS -Liaise and engage with Municipalities and Public Bodies
within the O.R Tambo Region. Verify information for accuracy, compliance, and
completeness. Execute the filling system for the unit. Conduct monthly
monitoring of information captured versus information in the system.
Implementation of Performance Information-Conduct site verification visits to
check compliance with EPWP guidelines and information captured in the
EPWP RS. Collections of Attendance and Payment Registers Copies,
Employment Contracts of Participants. Conduct file verification of DPWI
Projects. Check compliance of information and create a compliance template
for each project. Create individual files for each EPWP Project. Procurement
Service to EPWP Directorate- Facilitate the Shifting of funds and monitor
Budget to prevent under- and overspending. Execution of a procurement
system for accommodation, venues, stationery, process fuel claims, and other
goods and services for the programme. Control of procurement process to
ensure that all documentation and signatures are correct. Control and ensure
that Incurred Expenditure is kept up to date.
90
ENQUIRIES : for Mthatha posts: contact Ms. V Potelwa Tel No: (047) 505 2835/ Mr M. Bonde
Tel No: (047) 505 2767 e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-
bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to youth, Indian males with disability.
POST 31/130 : ADMIN CLERK: MAINTENANCE REF NO: DPWI 44/08/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Qumbu Depot
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no experience required.
DUTIES : Assist in rendering administrative support to the Depot, assist in collating and
compilation of depot reports, and ensure the effective flow of information and
documents. Assist with the leave management of the Depot to assist the
district. Liaise with the District for procurement processes. Ensure safe keeping
of all documentation in the office of the Depot.
ENQUIRIES : for Mthatha posts: contact Ms. V Potelwa Tel No: (047) 505 2835/ Mr M. Bonde
Tel No: (047) 505 2767 e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-
bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Indian Females with disability.
POST 31/131 : DRIVER HEAVY DUTY: MAINTENANCE REF NO: DPWI 44/08/2025
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Mount Frere Depot
REQUIREMENTS : Abet Level 4 or Grade 10. Grade 12 is an added advantage. Code10/ Code
14/EC drivers' license with valid PDP drivers permit. 2 years’ experience in
heavy duty vehicles. Knowledge & Skills: Basic knowledge of the legislative
framework and processes related to handling vehicles in government Ability to
handle conflict. Must be prepared to engage in intensive labour practices.
Ability to work under pressure. Ability to work independently and in a team.
Ability to communicate well with people at different levels. Ability to organize
and plan. Sound verbal and written communication skills. Ability to act with tact
and discretion. Must be self-motivated. Ability to handle tasks of
multidisciplinary nature. Good customer skills and competencies. Knowledge
of Labour Relations processes. Must be prepared to work shifts which includes,
fixed, After hours, night duty, weekends and public holidays. Knowledge of the
Batho Pele Principals. Applicants should be prepared to undergo drivers
testing and medical surveillance as an inherent job requirement.
DUTIES : Execute all authorized transportation trips of staff, records, goods/material to
relevant destinations. Check the level and condition of fuel, water, oil and tires
every time before driving a vehicle. Complete the vehicle inspection form after
checking vehicles for any problems (e.g. dents and scratches) and report dents
and scratches on vehicles. Report and complete the accident report when
involved in a motor vehicle accident immediately. Report minor and major
defects on the vehicle to the supervisor. Responsible for safekeeping of vehicle
keys, while vehicles are in use. Responsible for spare wheel, jack and all other
tools in vehicle. Ensure that the vehicle is clean and in good condition before
handing back the keys at the end of the shift. Report low fuel level to
Despatcher at the end of your trip. Always Comply with the Occupational Health
and Safety Act prescripts and procedures. Complete vehicle logbook as
prescribed by legislation. Attend to enquiries in a professional manner and give
guidance and advice. Promote the safekeeping of vehicles from damage.
Comply and implement allocated duties to yourself to be executed by your
supervisor/manager. Adhere to all legal instructions given to you written or
verbally by a senior staff member. Adhere to timelines. Attend meetings and
training as approved by the supervisor. Comply with the Performance
Management and Development System (PMDS).
ENQUIRIES : Can be directed to Ms O. Mailula Tel No: (039) 254 6795 / Ms N. Gcabi Tel No:
(039) 254 6942 e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-
bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to African Females.
91
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
It is the intention of the Department to promote fair representation through the filling of these positions.
The candidature from the designated groups, especially women and people with disabilities, will be given
preference.
OTHER POSTS
POST 31/132 : SOCIAL WORK MANAGER: SOCIAL WELFARE SERVICES GRADE 1 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R970 686 – R1 109 877 per annum, all-inclusive remuneration package, (OSD)
Alfred Nzo: District Office, Mount Ayliff Ref No: DSD 01/08/2025
Sarah Baartman: District Office, Makana Ref No: DSD 02/08/2025
CENTRE : District Office, Mount Ayliff & Sarah Baartman: District Office, Makana
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus Bachelor of Social Work. Latest proof of
registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP) as Social Worker. Minimum of 10 (ten) years appropriate/
recognizable experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker
with the SACSSP, of which 5 years should be at a Social Work Supervisor level
in the Developmental Social Welfare Services’ space dealing with Services to
Older Persons, Persons with Disabilities, HIV & AIDS and Social Relief. A valid
South African driver’s license. Competence: Strategic Capacity and
Leadership, Programme and Project management, Change Management,
Financial Management, People Management and Empowerment, Knowledge
Management, Problem Solving and analysis, Client orientation and Customer
Focus, Communication and Advanced Computer Literacy. Knowledge and
Skills: Expert skills to challenge structural sources of poverty, inequality,
oppression, discrimination and exclusion. Expert knowledge and
understanding of human behaviour and social systems and skills to intervene
at the points where people interact with their environments to promote social
well-being. The ability and competence to assist and empower individuals,
families, groups, organisations and communities to enhance their social
functioning and their problem-solving capacities, prevent and alleviate distress,
and use resources effectively in cases where expert knowledge is required.
The understanding and ability to provide complex social work services towards
protecting people who are vulnerable, at-risk and unable to protect themselves.
The ability to compile complex reports.
DUTIES : Provide a social work service of the highest, most advanced and specialised
nature within (a) defined area(s) of specialisation regarding the care, support,
protection and development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and
communities through the relevant programmes in partnership with
stakeholders. Management and support to Developmental Social Welfare
Services Programmes in line with the legislation, policies, regulatory
framework, norms and standards focusing on the following: Services to Older
Persons, Persons with Disabilities, HIV & AIDS and Social Relief. Attend to any
other matters that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form.
Facilitate the development and planning of programmes and interventions to
render a social work service through the efficient, economical and effective
utilisation of financial resources. Manage a social work unit to ensure that an
efficient and effective social work service is delivered through the efficient and
effective utilisation of human resources. Keep up to date with new
developments in the social work and management fields. Plan and ensure that
social work research and development are undertaken. Undertake complex
social work research. Perform and/or ensure that all the administrative
functions required in the unit are performed.
ENQUIRIES : Alfred Nzo: enquiries may be directed to Mr S Shweni Tel No: (039) 254 0900
Amathole: enquiries may be directed to Ms Z. Habe Tel No: (043) 711 6626
Sarah Baartman: enquiries may be directed to Mr M Sipambo Tel No: (046)
636-1484
e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE: Target: Coloured/White Male with disabilities
POST 31/133 : SOCIAL WORK MANAGER: CHILD CARE PROTECTION GRADE 1 REF
NO: DSD 03/08/2025
SALARY : R970 686 – R1 109 877 per annum, all-inclusive remuneration package, (OSD)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Bishop
92
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus Bachelor of Social Work. Latest proof of
registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP) as Social Worker (submitted only when shortlisted). Minimum of 10
(ten) years of appropriate/recognisable experience in Social Work after
registration as a Social Worker with the SACSSP, of which 5 years must be at
the Social Work Supervisory level and a South African valid driver’s license.
Competence: Strategic Capacity and Leadership, Programme and project
management, Change Management, Financial Management, People
Management and Empowerment, Knowledge Management, Problem Solving
and analysis, Client orientation and Customer Focus, Communication.
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Children’s Act 38 of 2005, White Paper
for Social Welfare Services and Social Service Professions Act, Knowledge of
Public Service Regulations, Acts, policies and procedures. Knowledge of the
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA).
DUTIES : Develop and ensure the implementation of policies, strategic plans and
operational plans. Facilitate the implementation of the Children’s Act 38 of
2005. Facilitate compliance with child protection services norms and
standards. Manage and coordinate the provision of Child Protection Services.
Manage and implement the Child Protection Register. Facilitate capacity
building of officials and stakeholders on child protection services. Facilitate the
development of Child and Youth Care Centre policies. Manage the registration
of Child and Youth Care Centres. Facilitate the development and
implementation of programmes in Child and Youth Care Centres. Facilitate
compliance of Child and Youth Care Centres with norms and standards.
Facilitate and manage intersectoral collaboration with key stakeholders.
Coordinate provision of child protection services. Facilitate monitoring of child
protection services and Child and Youth Care Centres. Manage financial,
administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Y Singqandu Tel No: (043) 605 5042/59. e-Recruitment Technical Support:
Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE: Target: Coloured/White Male with disabilities
POST 31/134 : SOCIAL WORK MANAGER: ALTERNATIVE CARE & ADOPTION GRADE 1
REF NO: DSD 04/08/2025
SALARY : R970 686 – R1 109 877 per annum, all-inclusive remuneration package, (OSD)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus Bachelor of Social Work. Latest proof of
registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP) as a Social Worker (submitted only when shortlisted). Minimum of
10 (ten) years of appropriate/recognisable experience in Social Work after
registration as a Social Worker with the SACSSP, of which 5 years must be at
the Social Work Supervisory level and a South African valid driver’s license.
Competence: Ability to plan, execute, and oversee projects and programmes
effectively. Efficient in setting goals, developing strategies, and outlining tasks
and schedules to accomplish objectives. Proficient in both verbal and written
communication, essential for policy development and stakeholder
engagement. Capability to lead, motivate, and manage a team effectively.
Expertise in analysing existing policies, developing and formulating new ones
to address emerging challenges in alternative care and adoption. Ability to
assess the performance of programmes and policies, ensuring they meet set
objectives and standards.
DUTIES : Develop, formulate, implement, and maintain policies and guidelines pertaining
to alternative care and adoption services. Monitor, interpret, and review
legislation and policies to ensure they remain relevant and comply with current
requirements. Develop proposals to amend or maintain relevant acts and
policies and develop new policies where required. Facilitate the development
and planning of programmes and interventions to render social work services
through efficient, economical, and effective utilisation of financial resources.
Coordinate sector activities on alternative care and adoption matters, including
liaising with provinces and other stakeholders. Oversee the implementation of
alternative care and adoption policies and programmes, ensuring compliance
and effectiveness at the provincial level. Research to inform policy and
Programme development, staying abreast of new developments in the social
work and management fields.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Y Singqandu Tel No: (043) 605 5042/59. e-Recruitment Technical Support:
Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
93
NOTE : EE: Target: Coloured/White Male with disabilities
POST 31/135 : SOCIAL WORK MANAGER: ALTERNATIVE CARE & ADOPTION GRADE 1
REF NO: DSD 04/08/2025
SALARY : R970 686 – R1 109 877 per annum, all-inclusive remuneration package, (OSD)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus Bachelor of Social Work. Latest proof of
registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP) as Social Worker (submitted only when shortlisted). Minimum of 10
(ten) years of appropriate/ recognizable experience in Social Work after
registration as a Social Worker with the SACSSP, of which 5 years must be at
the Social Work Supervisory level and a South African valid driver’s license.
Competencies: Ability to plan, execute, and oversee projects and programmes
effectively. Efficient in setting goals, developing strategies, and outlining tasks
and schedules to accomplish objectives. Proficient in both verbal and written
communication, essential for policy development and stakeholder
engagement. Capability to lead, motivate, and manage a team effectively.
Expertise in analysing existing policies, developing and formulating new ones
to address emerging challenges in alternative care and adoption. Ability to
assess the performance of programmes and policies, ensuring they meet set
objectives and standards.
DUTIES : Develop, formulate, implement, and maintain policies and guidelines pertaining
to alternative care and adoption services. Monitor, interpret, and review
legislation and policies to ensure they remain relevant and comply with current
requirements. Develop proposals to amend or maintain relevant acts and
policies and develop new policies where required. Facilitate the development
and planning of programmes and interventions to render social work services
through efficient, economical, and effective utilization of financial resources.
Coordinate sector activities on alternative care and adoption matters, including
liaising with provinces and other stakeholders. Oversee the implementation of
alternative care and adoption policies and programmes, ensuring compliance
and effectiveness provincially. Conduct research to inform policy and
Programme development, staying abreast of new developments in the social
work and management fields.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Y Singqandu Tel No: (043) 605 5042/59. e-Recruitment Technical Support:
Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE: Target: Coloured/White Male with disabilities
POST 31/136 : SOCIAL WORK MANAGER: FAMILIES GRADE 1 REF NO: DSD 05/08/2025
SALARY : R970 686 – R1 109 877 per annum, all-inclusive remuneration package, (OSD)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus Bachelor of Social Work. Latest proof of
registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP) as Social Worker (submitted only when shortlisted). Minimum of 10
(ten) years of appropriate/ recognizable experience in Social Work after
registration as a Social Worker with the SACSSP, of which 5 years must be at
the Social Work Supervisory level and a South African valid driver’s license.
Competence: Ability to plan, execute, and oversee projects effectively. Efficient
in setting goals, developing strategies, and outlining tasks and schedules to
accomplish objectives. Proficient in both verbal and written communication,
essential for policy development and stakeholder engagement. Capability to
lead, motivate, and manage a team effectively. Expertise in analysing existing
policies, developing and formulating new ones to address emerging challenges
in Restorative Services/ Care and Support Services. Ability to assess the
performance of programmes and policies, ensuring that they meet set
objectives and standards.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and management in the delivery of social work
services focused on the care, support, protection, and development of families.
Including overseeing programs related to family preservation, parenting
support, and interventions addressing family-related challenges. Manage and
coordinate family-focused social work programs, ensuring that they align with
national policies and effectively address community needs. Engage with
various stakeholders, including government departments, non- governmental
organizations, and community groups, to facilitate integrated service delivery.
Ensure the effective implementation of policies related to family services,
94
monitoring compliance and evaluating outcomes. Oversee the efficient
utilization of human and financial resources within the family services unit.
Develop and implement monitoring and evaluation frameworks to assess the
impact of family services programs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Y Singqandu Tel No: (043) 605 5042/59. e-Recruitment Technical Support:
Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE: Target: Coloured/White Male with disabilities
POST 31/137 : SOCIAL WORK MANAGER: CHILDREN SERVICES, GRADE 1 REF NO:
DSD 06/08/2025
SALARY : R970 686 – R1 109 877 per annum, all-inclusive remuneration package, (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo: District Office, Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus Bachelor of Social Work. Latest proof of
registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP) as a Social Worker (submitted only when shortlisted). Minimum of
10 (ten) years appropriate/ recognizable experience in Social Work after
registration as a Social Worker with the SACSSP, of which 5 years must have
been at Supervisory level in Children Services – Child services programmes.
A valid South African driver’s license. Competence: Ability to plan, execute, and
oversee projects effectively. Efficient in setting goals, developing strategies,
and outlining tasks and schedules to accomplish objectives. Proficient in both
verbal and written communication, essential for policy development and
stakeholder engagement. Capability to lead, motivate, and manage a team
effectively. Expertise in analysing existing policies and developing new ones to
address emerging challenges in Children's Services. Ability to assess the
performance of programmes and policies, ensuring they meet set objectives
and standards.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate child-focused social work programs, ensuring they
align with national policies and effectively address community needs. Engage
with various stakeholders, including government departments, non-
governmental organisations, and community groups, to facilitate integrated
service delivery. Ensure the effective implementation of policies related to child
services, monitoring compliance and evaluating outcomes. Oversee the
efficient utilisation of human and financial resources within the child services
unit. Develop and implement monitoring and evaluation frameworks to assess
the impact of child services programs.
ENQUIRIES : Or Tambo enquiries may be directed to Ms Z Dlanjwa Tel No: (047) 531 2504.
e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE: Target: Coloured/White Male with disabilities
POST 31/138 : SOCIAL WORK MANAGER: NPO GRADE 1 REF NO: DSD 07/08/2025
SALARY : R970 686 – R1 109 877 per annum, all-inclusive remuneration package, (OSD)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman: District Office, Makanda
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus Bachelor of Social Work. Latest proof of
registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP) as a Social Worker (submitted only when shortlisted). Minimum of
10 (ten) years of appropriate/ recognizable experience in Social Work after
registration as a Social Worker with the SACSSP, of which 5 years must be at
the Social Work Supervisory level. Extensive experience working within NPO
Management. Computer literacy. A valid South African driver’s license.
Competence: Comprehensive understanding of service delivery programmes
(core) of the department. Comprehensive understanding of the NPO Sector
and legislations; NPO Act, PFA, PFMA and other relevant legislations. Ability
to interact with the sector in all service delivery areas of the department.
Understanding of the Transfer Management process in line with the related
Policy and Core Service programs. Efficient in setting goals, developing
strategies, and outlining tasks and schedules to accomplish objectives.
Proficient in both verbal and written communication, essential for policy
development and stakeholder engagement.
DUTIES : To ensure that social work services delivered by NPOs are effectively
managed, monitored, and aligned with national policies and standards. This
includes overseeing the registration, funding, and compliance of NPOs to
promote social development and well-being. Manage the registration and
compliance processes of NPOs, ensuring adherence to relevant legislation and
policies. Oversee the allocation and monitoring of funds to NPOs, ensuring
95
effective utilization and accountability. Implement and monitor policies related
to NPO operations, ensuring they align with national social development goals.
Collaborate with various stakeholders, including government departments,
NPOs, and community groups, to facilitate integrated service delivery. Develop
and implement frameworks to assess the performance and impact of NPOs in
delivering social services. Manage the Audit process linked to the Transfer
Management process and follow up on Audit conclusions. Support the districts
in the disbursement processes.
ENQUIRIES : Sarah Baartman: enquiries may be directed to Mr M Sipambo Tel No: (046)
636-1484. e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE: Target: Coloured/White Male with disabilities
POST 31/139 : SOCIAL WORK POLICY MANAGER: SOCIAL RELIEF OF DISTRESS
SERVICES GRADE 1 REF NO: DSD 08/08/2025
SALARY : R970 686 – R1 109 877 per annum, all-inclusive remuneration package, (OSD)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Bisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus Bachelor of Social Work. Latest proof of
registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP) as Social Worker. Minimum of 10 (ten) years of appropriate/
recognizable experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker
with the SACSSP, of which 5 years must be at the Social Work Supervisory
level and a South African valid driver’s license. Competence: Ability to plan,
execute, and oversee projects effectively. Efficient in setting goals, developing
strategies, and outlining tasks and schedules to accomplish objectives.
Proficient in both verbal and written communication, essential for policy
development and stakeholder engagement. Capability to lead, motivate, and
manage a team effectively. Expertise in analysing existing policies and
developing new ones to address emerging challenges in Communities. Ability
to assess the performance of programmes and policies, ensuring they meet
set objectives and standards.
DUTIES : To ensure that policies for rendering social work services, particularly those
related to social relief of distress, are developed, implemented, and
maintained. This includes managing a social work policy unit to ensure that the
required legislative policies and procedures are developed through the efficient
and effective utilization of human resources. Develop, implement, and maintain
social work policies related to social relief. Monitor, interpret, and review
legislation, policies, and procedures to determine their relevance and
compliance with current requirements. Engage in general consultation with
stakeholders and advise subordinates regarding the social work policy to be
implemented. Manage a Social Relief of Distress unit, ensuring personnel are
recruited and retained within budgetary constraints, and that sound
employment relations are maintained. Manage the performance and conduct
of subordinates within the Social Relief of Distress Unit. Ensure that
subordinates are trained and developed to deliver work of the required
standard, including providing mentorship and guidance. Establish, implement,
and maintain efficient and effective communication arrangements in the unit.
Ensure that subordinates maintain their professional registration as required.
develop and manage the business plan of the unit and report on progress as
required. Manage the general performance of the unit, including effective and
efficient utilisation of the budget allocated for the provision of Social Relief of
Distress Services. Keep up to date with new developments in the social work
and management fields by studying professional journals and publications.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Y Singqandu Tel No: (043) 605 5042/59 e-Recruitment Technical Support:
Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE: Target: Coloured/White Male with disabilities
POST 31/140 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT MANAGER: SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOODS
GRADE 1 REF NO: DSD 09/08/2025
SALARY : R970 686 – R1 109 877 per annum, all-inclusive remuneration package, (OSD)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Bisho
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three-year tertiary qualification in Community
Development/Social Science/Developmental Studies or a related field. A
minimum of 10 years of recognizable experience in Community Development
after obtaining the required qualification, of which 5 years must have been at a
Supervisory level in Community Development. A valid South African driver's
96
license is required. Competence: Extensive understanding of theories and
systems in community development, sustainable livelihoods approaches, and
relevant legislation and policies. Strong leadership, communication, and
organizational skills. Ability to manage resources effectively, conduct complex
research, and work collaboratively with various stakeholders.
DUTIES : To lead and manage the identification, planning, and implementation of
integrated community development programs that promote sustainable
livelihoods. This involves collaborating with stakeholders to empower
communities through initiatives that enhance economic opportunities and
social well-being. Design and oversee community development programs
aimed at fostering sustainable livelihoods, ensuring alignment with national
policies and community needs. Collaborate with government departments,
non-governmental organizations, and community groups to facilitate integrated
service delivery and resource mobilization. Ensure the effective application of
policies related to sustainable livelihoods, monitoring compliance and
evaluating outcomes. Oversee the efficient utilization of human and financial
resources within the sustainable livelihood unit. Develop and implement
frameworks to assess the impact of sustainable livelihoods programs, making
data-driven adjustments as necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Y Singqandu Tel No: (043) 605 5042/59. e-Recruitment Technical Support:
Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE: Target: Coloured/White Male with disabilities
POST 31/141 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT MANAGER: WOMEN DEVELOPMENT
GRADE 1 REF NO: DSD 10/08/2025
SALARY : R970 686 – R1 109 877 per annum, all-inclusive remuneration package, (OSD)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Bisho
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three-year tertiary qualification in Community
Development/Social Science/Developmental Studies or a related field. A
minimum of 10 years of recognizable experience in Community Development
after obtaining the required qualification, of which 5 years must have been at a
Supervisory level in Community Development. A valid South African driver's
license is required. Competence: Extensive understanding of legislation and
policies governing women's development, including gender equality
frameworks. strong leadership, communication, and organizational skills.
Ability to manage resources effectively and work collaboratively with various
stakeholders.
DUTIES : To manage the identification, planning, and implementation of integrated and
transformative social development programs aimed at empowering women.
This includes facilitating partnerships with key stakeholders to promote gender
equality and sustainable livelihoods. Oversee the delivery of women-focused
community development programs, ensuring alignment with national policies
and effective community impact. Engage with various stakeholders, including
government departments, non-governmental organizations, and community
groups, to facilitate integrated service delivery. Ensure the effective
implementation of policies related to women's development, monitoring
compliance and evaluating outcomes. Oversee the efficient utilization of
human and financial resources within the women's development unit. Develop
and implement monitoring and evaluation frameworks to assess the impact of
women's development programs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Y Singqandu Tel No: (043) 605 5042/59. e-Recruitment Technical Support:
Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE: Target: Coloured/White Male with disabilities
POST 31/142 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT MANAGER GRADE 1 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R970 686 – R1 109 877 per annum, (OSD), all-inclusive remuneration package
OR Tambo: District Office, Mthatha Ref No: DSD 11/08/2025
Alfred Nzo: District Office, Mount Ayliff Ref No: DSD 12/08/2025
CENTRE : OR Tambo: District Office, Mthatha & Alfred Nzo: District Office, Mount Ayliff
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three-year tertiary qualification in Community
Development/Social Science/Developmental Studies or a related field. A
minimum of 10 years of recognizable experience in Community Development
after obtaining the required qualification, of which 5 years must have been at a
Supervisory level in Community Development. A valid South African driver's
license is required. Competence: Extensive understanding of theories and
97
systems in community development, including knowledge of individual and
group behaviour, community dynamics, and current legislation. Strong
leadership, communication, and organizational skills. Ability to manage
resources effectively and work collaboratively with various stakeholders.
DUTIES : To manage the identification, planning, and implementation of integrated and
transformative social development programs delivered by the unit or sub-
directorate in partnership with key stakeholders. The aim is to empower human
and social capital through a community development approach towards
sustainable livelihoods. Oversee the delivery of community development
programs, ensuring they align with national policies and effectively address
community needs. Engage with various stakeholders, including government
departments, non-governmental organizations, and community groups, to
facilitate integrated service delivery. Ensure the effective implementation of
policies related to community development, monitoring compliance and
evaluating outcomes. Oversee the efficient utilization of human and financial
resources within the community development unit. Develop and implement
monitoring and evaluation frameworks to assess the impact of community
development programs.
ENQUIRIES : OR Tambo: enquiries may be directed to Ms Z Dlanjwa, Tel No: (047) 531 2504
Alfred Nzo: enquiries may be directed to Mr S Shweni Tel No: (039) 254 0900
e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE: Target: Coloured/White Male with disabilities
POST 31/143 : PSYCHOLOGIST GRADE 1 REF NO: DSD 13/08/2025
SALARY : R872 709 – R957 300 per annum, all-inclusive remuneration package, (OSD)
CENTRE : NMM: Ernest Malgas Treatment Centre, New Brighton
REQUIREMENTS : Master’s degree in psychology (Clinical) recognised by SAQA. Registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Psychologist
in the relevant category. Current Annual Practicing Certificate with the HPCSA.
Competence: Knowledge of legislation and policies relevant to the practice of
Psychology in the public sector (Mental Health Care Act 17 of 2002, Prevention
and Treatment of Substance Abuse Act 70 of 2008, Children’s Act 38 of 2005
and relevant Amendments, etc.). Expertise in clinical psychology intervention.
Understanding of multi-disciplinary approaches to service delivery. Knowledge
of psychometric assessments and therapeutic interventions. Excellent report-
writing, case management, and counselling skills. Ability to work with
vulnerable groups. Strong communication and interpersonal skills. Computer
literacy.
DUTIES : Conduct psychological assessments, diagnostics, and interventions for clients
of the Department (children, families, adults). Provide therapeutic services
(individual, group, family therapy) for clients referred. Undertaking
psychometric testing where required.
ENQUIRIES : NMM: Enquiries may be directed to Ms L. Thompson Tel No: (041) 406-5899
e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE: Target: Coloured /White Male with disabilities
POST 31/144 : CHIEF PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 REF NO: DSD 14/08/2025
SALARY : R549 192 – R629 121 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : BCM: Silver Crown Old Age Home, East London
REQUIREMENTS : Basic qualification accredited with the South African Nursing Council (SANC)
in terms of Government Notice 425 (i.e., diploma/degree in Nursing —
equivalent to NQF Level 6/7). A minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC.
Current annual registration with SANC. Competence: Knowledge of nursing
care processes and procedures, nursing statutes, and other relevant legal
frameworks. Good knowledge of public service policies, clinical guidelines, and
quality assurance practices. Ability to develop and implement nursing care
standards. Excellent understanding of infection prevention and control,
occupational health, and patient safety. Good communication and
interpersonal skills. Supervisory and leadership skills. Computer literacy is an
advantage.
DUTIES : Provide comprehensive, quality, and specialized nursing care in accordance
with the scope of practice and nursing standards. Implement nursing care
interventions based on the assessed needs of individuals, groups, and
communities. Ensure adherence to clinical protocols, infection prevention, and
98
patient safety guidelines. Ensure compliance with National Core Standards,
Batho Pele Principles, and Quality Assurance standards. Monitor and evaluate
the implementation of quality improvement initiatives. Participate in clinical
audits and manage identified gaps. Maintain accurate nursing records and
ensure proper reporting and documentation. Monitor and manage the
utilization of human, financial, and physical resources in the unit. Participate in
budget planning and ensure optimal use of allocated resources.
ENQUIRIES : BCM: enquiries may be directed to Ms P. Gqabantshi Tel No: (043) 705-5675.
e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE: Target: Indian/White Male with disabilities
POST 31/145 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR GRADE 1 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R477 564 – R561 378 annum, (OSD)
Sarah Baartman: Steytlerville Service Delivery Centre Ref No: DSD
15/08/2025
Chris Hani: Enoch Mgijima, Queenstown Ref No: DSD 16/08/2025
Chris Hani: Intsika Yethu, Cofimvaba Ref No: DSD 17/08/2025
BCM: Bisho CYCC Ref No: DSD 18/08/2025
BCM: King Williams Town LSO Ref No: DSD 19/08/2025
Alfred Nzo: Ntabankulu Ref No: DSD 20/08/2025
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus Bachelor of Social Work. Latest proof of
registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP) as Social Worker. Minimum of 7 (seven) years of appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the
SACSSP. A valid South African driver’s license. Competence: Communication:
Must demonstrate effective communication at all levels, be able to adapt
content according to the recipient and compile complex reports. Teamwork and
collaboration: Must be able to manage and work effectively within teams,
including social work teams, multi-disciplinary teams and multi- sectoral teams.
Valuing Diversity: Must be able to manage and work effectively at a supervisory
level with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences.
Planning and organizing: Must be able to plan, organize and prioritize own work
and work of the work unit/ group and to ensure proper social services.
Computer literacy: Must demonstrate basic computer literacy as a support tool
to enhance service delivery. Understanding social work values and principles:
Must demonstrate social work values and the principles of human rights and
social justice. Trustworthiness: Must be able to build a positive relationship of
trust with all stakeholders. Problem solving: Must be able to solve problems
and apply critical thinking.
DUTIES : Understanding social dynamics: Must ensure that supervisees challenge
structural sources of poverty, inequality, oppression, discrimination and
exclusion. Understanding human behaviour and social systems: Must have
knowledge and understanding of more complex and advanced human
behaviour and social systems. Social work Intervention: Must ensure that
supervisees intervene efficiently and effectively at points where people interact
with their environments in order to promote social well-being. Social
empowerment: Must ensure that supervisees assist, advocate and empower
individuals, families, groups, organizations and communities to enhance their
social functioning and their problem-solving capacities, prevent and alleviate
problems.
ENQUIRIES : Sarah Baartman: enquiries may be directed to Mr M Sipambo Tel No: (046)
636-1484
OR Tambo: Enquiries may be directed to Ms Z Dlanjwa Tel No: (047) 531 2504
Chris Hani: enquiries may be directed to Ms Mzinjana Tel No: (045) 8083709
BCM: enquiries may be directed to Ms P. Gqabantshi Tel No: (043) 705-5675
Joe Gqabi: Enquiries may be directed to Ms N. Duba Tel No: (051) 633-1616
Alfred Nzo: Enquiries may be directed to Mr S Shweni Tel No: (039) 254 0900
e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE: Target: Coloured/White Male with disabilities
POST 31/146 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SUPERVISOR GRADE 1 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R453 201 – R514 470 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE BCM: Zwelitsha LSO Ref No: DSD 21/08/2025
Amathole: Mbashe LSO, Dutywa Ref No: DSD 22/08/2025
99
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus an appropriate three-year tertiary qualification
in Community Development, Development Studies, Social Work, Sociology,
Public Administration or equivalent qualification recognised by SAQA. A
minimum of 7 years’ recognizable experience in Community Development after
obtaining the required qualification. A valid South African driver’s license.
Competence: Financial management: Must be able to make inputs on the
budget of the work unit. Communication: Must demonstrate effective
communication with various stakeholders and be able to write clear
documentation, including reports. Problem solving: Must be able to analyses
situations and solve problems. Computer literacy: Must demonstrate basic
computer literacy. Planning and organizing: Must be able to plan and organize
own work and the work of others. Conflict management: Must be able to handle
conflict situations and help others to work through conflicts and find solutions.
Trustworthiness: Must have ethical and moral conduct. Developing others:
Must be able to mentor, coach and provide continuous support, be able to build
a positive relationship of trust with the community and colleagues. Ethics: Must
be able to display good guidance and advice to community development
practitioners. People management: Must be able to manage the performance
and conduct of others. Understanding principles: Must understand and be able
to apply the principles applied in community work. Project management: Must
be able to plan and manage projects to deliver on time, within cost and at the
required quality level. Continuous improvement: Must keep up to date with new
developments in the community development field to enhance service delivery.
Computer literacy will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Understanding community development programs: Must be able to supervise
the identification, facilitation and implementation of integrated community
development interventions in partnership with the community and other
relevant stakeholders. Knowledge of human behaviour and social systems:
Must have knowledge and understanding of human behaviour and social
systems. Understanding community dynamics: Must have knowledge and
understanding of the inter-relations within community structures, dynamics of
the community and current legislation to enable interventions. Networking and
establishing partnerships: Must ensure that there is communication and
coordination with all relevant role players, internal and external (e.g. in
departments/provinces, NGOs, local community structures. Community
development research: Must be able to conduct research relating to community
development work. Managing community projects: Must be able to manage
and coordinate community development projects. Understanding community
development legislation: Must be able to implement policies and legislation
related to community development.
ENQUIRIES : Sarah Baartman enquiries may be directed to Mr M Sipambo Tel No: (046)
636-1484
BCM: enquiries may be directed to Ms P. Kula Tel No: (043) 705-5675
Amathole Enquiries may be directed to Ms Z. Habe Tel No: (043) 711 6626
e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE: Target: Coloured/White Male with disabilities
POST 31/147 : SOCIAL WORKER GRADE 1 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 200 – R382 374 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE Amathole, Peddie LSO Ref No: DSD 23/07/2025
NMM: Walmer LSO Ref No: DSD 24/08/2025
NMM: Uitenhage Ref No: DSD 25/08/2025
OR Tambo: Flagstaff SDP Ref No: DSD 26/08/2025
OR Tambo: Tsolo SDP Ref No: DSD 27/08/2025
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus Bachelor of Social Work. Latest proof of
registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP) as Social Worker must be submitted on the interview day. A valid
driver’s license is a prerequisite; however, successful candidates who are not
in possession of a driver’s license will be required to submit proof within six (6)
months from the date of assumption of duty. Competence: Communication:
Must be able to exchange information in a clear and concise manner with
clients and supervisors, including report writing. Teamwork and collaboration:
Must be able to work effectively within teams, including social work teams and
multidisciplinary teams. Valuing diversity: Must be able to work effectively,
cooperatively, and amicably with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial
or religious differences. Planning and organizing: Must be able to plan and
100
organize own work. Computer literacy: Must demonstrate basic computer
literacy as a support tool to enhance service delivery. Trustworthiness: Must be
able to build a positive relationship of trust with colleagues and clients.
Empathy: Must demonstrate compassion, be able to respect and build positive
relationships with clients. Understanding social work values and principles:
Must demonstrate social work values and the principles of human rights and
social justice. Developing others: Must be able to develop, coach and foster
long-term learning of others.
DUTIES : Understanding social dynamics: Must be able to challenge structural sources
of poverty, inequality, oppression, discrimination and exclusion. Understanding
human behaviour and social systems: Must have knowledge and
understanding of human behaviour and social systems Social Work
Intervention: Must be able to intervene at the points where people interact with
their environment in order to promote social wellbeing. Social empowerment:
Must be able to assist and empower individuals, families, groups, organizations
and communities to enhance their social functioning and their problem-solving
capabilities. Social support: Must be able to promote, restore, maintain and
enhance the functioning of individuals, families, groups and communities by
enabling them to accomplish tasks, prevent and alleviate distress and use
resources effectively. Protecting vulnerable individuals: Must understand and
be able to provide social work services towards protecting people who are
vulnerable, at risk and unable to protect themselves. Understanding social
work legislation: Must demonstrate an understanding of social work policies,
legislation and related legal and ethical social work practices.
ENQUIRIES : Amathole Enquiries may be directed to Ms Z. Habe Tel No: (043) 711 6626
OR Tambo Enquiries may be directed to Ms Z Dlanjwa Tel No: (047) 531 2504
NMM Enquiries may be directed to Ms L. Thompson Tel No: (041) 406-5899 or
Ms P Tsuputse Tel No: (051) 633-1609
e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE: Target: Coloured/White Male with disabilities
POST 31/148 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R278 169 – R324 960 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : NMM: Motherwell Service Office Ref No: DSD 28/08/2025
Alfred Nzo: Mbizana LSO Ref No: DSD 29/08/2025
Alfred Nzo: Matatiele- (Maluti SO) Ref No: DSD 30/08/2025
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a three-year tertiary qualification in community
development or any appropriate three-year tertiary qualification. Competence:
Impact and influence: Must be able to influence individuals and groups to
participate in their self-empowerment ventures. Planning and organizing: Must
be able to plan and organize own work effectively. Presentation skills: Must be
able to conduct presentations to various community development structures.
Communication: Must demonstrate effective communication with various
stakeholders and be able to write clear documentation. Computer literacy: Must
demonstrate basic computer literacy. Empathy: Must be able to respect and
build positive relationships with the community. Trustworthiness: Must be able
to build a positive relationship of trust with the community. Honesty: Must be
principled and true to oneself and others. Teamwork and collaboration: Must
be able to work cooperatively with others, be part of a team. Understanding
principles: Must understand the principles applied in community work.
DUTIES : Apply knowledge of human behavior and social systems to guide community
development work. Utilize legislation to design and support interventions where
people interact with their environments, promoting self-empowerment. Provide
basic counseling services and empower communities to address social
challenges. Conduct research relating to community development practices to
inform evidence-based interventions. Facilitate, identify, plan, and implement
community development programs and interventions. Manage and coordinate
community development projects to ensure efficiency and impact. Analyse and
interpret the inter-relations within community structures and community
dynamics to guide action. Liaise and interact with various community
development structures to strengthen collaboration and establish sustainable
partnerships. Implement policies and legislation related to community
development to ensure compliance and effectiveness.
ENQUIRIES : NMM enquiries may be directed to Ms L. Thompson Tel No: (041) 406-5899,
Alfred Nzo enquiries may be directed to Mr S Shweni Tel No: (039) 254 0900,
e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
101
DEPARTMENT OF SPORT, RECREATION, ARTS & CULTURE
APPLICATIONS : Submit applications via one of the options below: Via the provincial e-
recruitment system which is available on https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za. The
e-recruitment system closes at 23: 59 on the closing date. Applications
received after closing date will not be considered. No faxed applications will be
accepted. To report technical glitches, for assistance regarding the system,
and/or for activation of your profile, send an email with your ID Number, your
profile email address, details of the issue to erecruitment@ecsrac.gov.za (NB:
Not CVs). Technical support is limited to working hours: (08:00-16:30 Mon-
Thursday and 08:00-16:00 on Fridays). Should you submit your
applications/CVs to erecruitment@ecsrac.gov.za and not as specified – your
application will be regarded as lost and will not be considered. Note: Applicant
must register on the e-recruitment system, complete and submit required
information and apply for position as advertised following this URL:
http://www.ecprov.gov.za. OR submit via one of the following options: directing
to a specific relevant centre:
Head Office: Qonce: Enquiries – Mr. Y. Dlamkile Tel No: (043) 492 1386 / Mrs.
R. E. Swartbooi / Mr. M. Cezula Tel No: (043) 492 0949 / 1400 / Hand deliver
to: No. 5 Eales Street, Wilton Zimasile Mkwayi Building, Qonce, 5605
Amathole Museum: Qonce: Enquiries. S. Cakata Tel No: (043) 642 4506 –
Amathole Museum (Qonce) Hand deliver to Corner of Alexandra & Albert Road,
Qonce
Amathole District: Enquiries Mr. B. Mbangatha / Mr. Mboniswa Tel No: (043)
492 1838/1839 Hand deliver to: No 16 Commissioner Street, Old Elco Building,
East London, 5201
Alfred Nzo District: Attention Mr M.B. Gugwana Tel No: (039) 492 0297 Hand
deliver to: No 67 Church Street Mt Ayliff.
Sarah Baartman District: Attention Ms. S. Mpafa Tel No: (046) 492 0223 Hand
deliver to: Registry, 1st floor, Corner African and Milner Street, Makanda.
Chris Hani District: Attention Mr. X. Kwanini / Mr. T. Thomas Tel No: (045) 492
0030 / 0054 Hand deliver to: Bathandwa Ndondo Building, Komani Hospital.
Nelson Mandela District: Attention Mr S. Javu Tel No: (041) 492 1231 / 1230
/ 1234 Hand delivers to 2nd Floor- 66 Corporate Place, Ring Road,
Greenacres, Newton Park, Gqeberha
Applicants are encouraged to Use E-Recruitment System. People with
disabilities who meet the requirements will be given preference.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
NOTE : Directions To Applicants: Applications must be submitted on a duly complete
New Z83 form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents until further notice, but
must submit a fully completed signed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae
– NB: Z83 in the e-recruitment system is currently not downloadable and
therefore not signable; so, applicants who submitted applications via the e-
recruitment system will therefore not be disqualified for an unsigned Z83
instead will be requested to sign on interview day. Shortlisted candidates will
be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, and other relevant
documents to HR on or before the day of the interview: should you be in
possession of a foreign qualification; it must be accompanied by an evaluation
certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) when
submitted. Failure to submit all the requested documents will disqualify your
application. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If
you have not been contacted within six (6) months after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Selected
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, financial/asset record check, qualification/study
verification and previous employment verification). Successful candidates will
also be subjected to security clearance processes. Where applicable,
candidates will be subjected to a skills/knowledge test. Misrepresentation in
the application documents will result in automatic disqualification and
disciplinary action in the event the candidate has already been appointed. The
Department reserves the right not to make appointment(s) to the advertised
post(s). Persons with disability and people from previously disadvantaged
groups are encouraged to apply. Employment equity targets of the department
will be adhered to.
102
OTHER POSTS
POST 31/149 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RESEARCH & POLICY DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
DSRAC 01/08/2025
Re-advertisement, Candidates who have applied previously are encouraged to
re-apply
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration).
The package includes a basic salary (70% of package), and flexible portion
that may be structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management
Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Head Office - Qonce
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma NQF 6 / Bachelor’s
degree NQF Level 7 as recognized by SAQA in Social
Sciences/Developmental studies or Public Administration (Master’s Degree will
be an added advantage) coupled with 3 years’ experience in the field of
developing, monitoring implementation of policies; conducting research and
evaluation; and developing and implementing Innovation and knowledge
Management Strategy, of which 3 years must be at an Assistant Manager level.
Knowledge of monitoring, evaluation and interpretation of government policies.
Experience in analysing various types of information and identifying
operational direction. Policy development and implementation. Experience of
managing a team. Experience of testing and prototyping. Distinguished record
of creativity and innovation. A valid driving license. Key Competencies:
Extensive high-level knowledge of Research and Policy Development,
Innovation and Knowledge Management, as well as the interpretation of
policies. Analytical and Innovative Thinker, Events/Project Management and
Financial Management.
DUTIES : Conduct varying internal and external quantitative and qualitative research and
ensure accurate interpretation. Undertake and oversee qualitative research to
benefit DSRAC’s policy development. Oversee research interpretation and
disseminate information to leadership and appropriate stakeholders. Facilitate
intensive consultation with relevant stakeholders. Facilitate collaboration with
provincial government counterparts and tertiary institutions in aspects of the
delivery of the annual surveys including participating in various research
projects and or committees. Oversee and collaborate in the development,
administration, delivery of interpretation and analysis of external and internal
surveys to inform DSRAC operational and strategy development outcomes.
Lead the development of DSRAC’s annual research plan. Stay abreast of
market and industry trends in research and public policy as it relates to DSRAC.
Developing and monitoring implementation of Policy Development and
Management Framework in line with provincial and/or national policy
frameworks. Developing, monitoring and implementation of departmental
Innovation and Knowledge Management Strategy. Identifying policy issues in
collaboration with operational areas/business units and horizontal policy
coordination working groups; Providing policy advice and recommending policy
priorities to senior management and operational areas, where appropriate.
Managing, overseeing, coordinating and monitoring policy development,
including the initial determination of the type of policy to be developed (strategic
and or operational); Providing tools and guidance, including an inventory, for
policy development; Ensuring alignment and validating conformity of policy
instruments with DSRAC policy requirements and architecture; Convening and
coordinating policy review processes; Communicating policy culture and policy
management to DSRAC staff; Making editorial and/or administrative changes
to policy instruments, as required; Conduct feasibility studies as may be
required by the department and report progress to senior management.
Manage and submit monthly, quarterly and reports. Manage human and
financial resources. Manage EPMDS and staff development training needs.
Manage attendance register and leave records. This post is earmarked for
persons with disabilities.
ENQUIRIES : R Swartbooi Tel No: (043) 492 0949 Head Office (Qonce) e-Recruitment
Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
103
POST 31/150 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ADMIN SUPPORT & COORDINATION REF NO:
DSRAC 02/08/2025
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration)
CENTRE : Head Office – (Qonce)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma Level 6/7 Preferable
appropriate B Degree NQF Level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Office
Administration/Public Administration or equivalent relevant qualification
coupled with at least 3 years at Assistant Director /Jnr Management Level in
related administrative support and coordination field. Good command of written
and oral English and any other official language. Knowledge of strategic
coordination/ planning and professional report writing. Knowledge of formats
and routes of documentation throughout the department. Quality control of
documents. Knowledge and understanding of hierarchy and management
structure of the Executive Authority office. Policies, legislation, and procedures;
Public Service and Departmental procedures and prescripts. In possession of
the following skills: Organizing skills; Facilitation skills; Communication skills;
Computer literacy and technical writing skills. Ability to communicate with
ministries, senior management, officials, and the public in a professional
manner. Ability to work individually and in a team. Good interpersonal relations.
Ability to work with difficult persons and to resolve conflict. Sense of
responsibility and loyalty; Objectiveness; Integrity; Service orientated; Self
supervision; Highly developed sense of honesty and protect the confidentiality
of documents.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support services in the office of the EA. Perform
administrative responsibilities to ensure the smooth running of the MEC’s
office. Manage physical and financial resources of the MECs Office. Goods
and services successfully procured for the Office of the MEC. Ensure that office
report is fully compiled. Ensure that the office of the MEC is successfully
managed and functional. Organise and facilitate sessions for portfolio
questions. Provide registry support services in the office of the EA. Provide
registry counter service. Handle incoming and outgoing correspondence.
Render an effective filling and record management services. Ensure the
safekeeping of all documents for archiving and disposal. Develop and
implement records management policies. Provide logistical support for
meetings. Setting standards in effective cost control. Cost Control: generate
cost control analysis of the office activities quarterly and suggest adjustments
to the Chief of Staff. Monitor travel arrangements and accommodation for the
Office of the MEC. Make sure that the newspapers are delivered on daily basis.
Management of strategic support. Give input in the development of strategic,
Business/Operational and procurement plans. Analyse, Identify and Compile
monthly and quarterly Reports. Manage administration support. Facilitate
management of EPMDS and provide support to all staff. Manage human
resources (attendance register & leave records). Monitor financial resources
(budget, cash flow projections & in-year monitoring). Ensure performance
development and training needs analysis of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Y Dlamkile Tel No: (043) 492 1386 Head Office (Qonce) e- Recruitment
Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 31/151 : SCIENTIST PRODUCTION REF NO: DSRAC 06/08/2025
SALARY : R761 157 – R816 852 per annum, (OSD), (an all-inclusive remuneration)
CENTRE : Amathole Museum (Qonce)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a NQF Level 8 in Zoology or relevant natural
science qualification with a minimum of three (3) years relevant experience in
a museum natural science environment. A member of South African Council of
Natural Scientific Professionals will be considered as an added advantage.
Compulsory registration with SACNASP as a professional Natural Scientist.
Knowledge of public service regulations, legislations/ policies/ prescripts and
procedures. Occupational Health and Safety prescripts. Knowledge of Eastern
Cape Museum Act. National Environmental management: Biodiversity Act,
Operational standards for natural science museum, South African National
Standards for Museums. Knowledge of Research and dissection microscopes
and collection management standards, ability to recognise diagnostic
characteristics on which classification system are based. Computer
knowledge, laboratory protocol, database and word computer packages,
104
Natural science, financial management. Programme and project management.
Communication skills, Report writing skills, People management skills,
Customer or client orientated approach. A valid driving licence.
DUTIES : Develop and implement methodologies, policies, systems and procedures.
Identify and consolidate needs for methodologies, policies, systems and
procedures. Identify gaps and develop appropriate interventions. Monitor and
evaluate programme performance. Perform scientific functions that require
interpretation in the absence of an established framework. Provide scientific
support and advice. Develop working relations with client base. Create public
awareness of the science system. Provide scientific data, information and
advice as requested. Review scientific publications. To perform scientific
analysis and regulatory functions. Conduct analysis of scientific data. Gather
and interpret data, evaluate results and disseminate information. Apply
appropriate scientific models to generate information and knowledge.
Formulate proposals and compile reports. Develop and customize models and
techniques. Conduct research and development. Continuous professional
development to keep up with new technologies and procedures. Conduct basic
and applied research. Research/literature studies to improve expertise. Public
and present research findings. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on science-
related matters. Management of human capital development Mentor, train and
develop candidate scientists and others to promote skills/knowledge transfer
and adherence to sound scientific principles and code of practice. Supervise
scientific work processes. Manage the performance and development of staff.
ENQUIRIES : S Cakata Tel No: (043) 642 4506 Amathole Museum (Qonce) e- Recruitment
Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 31/152 : CHIEF LANGUAGE PRACTITIONER REF NO: DSRAC 03/08/2025
Re-advertisement, previous applicants are encouraged to re-apply.
SALARY : R582 444 – R686 091 per annum (Level 10), (an all-inclusive remuneration)
CENTRE : Head Office (Qonce)
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma NQF 6 / Preferably
bachelor’s degree NQF Level 7 as recognized by SAQA in Linguistic / Socio-
linguistic / Journalism / Communication with a minimum 3-year relevant work
experience at supervisory level 7 / 8 in the relevant field. A valid driving licence.
DUTIES : Assist in developing language legislation and policy. Formulate language
legislation and policy. Facilitate implementation of language policy. Promote
the principle of multilingualism in the province. Facilitate establishment of
language units in the government departments. Coordinate strategic
engagements with the Eastern Cape Language Forum. Facilitate translation
and interpreting services. Coordinate development of term lists in all official
languages of the province. Conduct research on all difficult terms/words on the
term list. Terminology development services. Develop terms in conjunction with
language role players. Research on difficult terms. Facilitate authentication /
verification of difficult terms. Facilitate approval of terms of difficult nature by
national term bank. Provide administrative support for the component.
Facilitate the development of Literature. Coordinate engagements with
Literature bodies in the province. Facilitate Literature Development programs.
Coordinate both literature and language projects. Assist in the development of
strategic, operational and procurement, business and projection plans.
Manage financial resources. Manage human resources. Compile monthly and
quarterly reports. Allocation of resources for staff. Manage EPMDS and provide
staff development training needs.
ENQUIRES : R Swartbooi Tel No: (043) 492 0949- Head Office (Qonce) e- Recruitment
Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 31/153 : CULTURAL OFFICER REF NO: DSRAC 04/08/2025
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07), (an all-inclusive remuneration)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District (Performing Arts)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Arts and
Culture or any relevant qualification with 1 to 2 years relevant experience at
production level. Extensive high-level knowledge of arts and culture and
interpretation of policies. Excellent knowledge about museums and heritage.
Programs. Financial management. People management and empowerment.
105
Financial and knowledge management. Client orientation. Further knowledge
of Local authorities, Departmental management and officials, General public /
community, Academic institutions and learners, Private Sectors, Executing
authority (Political Bearers), Municipalities (local and districts), Parks and
tourism board. Cultural and Creative Industries Master Plan. The candidate
must possess good interpersonal relations and ability to work as a team. Must
have written and verbal communication skills. Candidate must be able to work
independently, under pressure, and after hours. Be willing to drive to various
districts for stakeholder engagement. A valid driving licence.
DUTIES : Coordinate Arts & Culture Provincial Programmes. Organise logistics and
attend meetings. Responsible for groups and performing artists. Organise
festival equipment for artists. Facilitate and implement art centre programs.
Craft rooster for activities. Organise arts centre structures. Consult with
relevant stakeholders. Identify beneficiaries. Coordinate approval of
submissions. Facilitate access of the art centre. Market the institution to the
communities. Monitor day to day operations of the art centre. Responsible for
art centre material. Develop database for artists. Provide institutional support.
Maintain working relations with the stakeholders. Give support to developing
artists. Monitor progress of artists. Provide administrative support. Draft art
centre business plan. Consolidate and compile quarterly and annual reports.
Monitor budget expenditure and revenue collection. Coordinate procurement
submission. Organise and monitor visitor’s register.
ENQUIRIES : N Qumza Tel No: (046) 492 0223/0227- Sarah Baartman District e-
Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 31/154 : CULTURAL OFFICER REF NO: DSRAC 05/08/2025
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07), (an all-inclusive remuneration)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District (Mount Ayliff Arts Centre)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Arts and
Culture or any relevant qualification with 1 to 2 years relevant experience at
production level. Extensive high-level knowledge of arts and culture and
interpretation of policies. Excellent knowledge about museums and heritage.
Programs. Financial management. People management and empowerment.
Financial and knowledge management. Client orientation. Further knowledge
of Local authorities, Departmental management and officials, General public /
community, Academic institutions and learners, Private Sectors, Executing
authority (Political Bearers), Municipalities (local and districts), Parks and
tourism board. South African museums association. The candidate must
possess good interpersonal relations and ability to work as a team. Must have
written and verbal communication skills. Candidate must be able to work
independently, under pressure, and after hours. Be willing to drive to various
districts for stakeholder engagement. A valid driving licence.
DUTIES : Coordinate Arts & Culture Provincial Programmes. Organise logistics and
attend meetings. Responsible for groups and designer artists. Organise festival
equipment for artists. Facilitate and implement art centre programs. Craft
rooster for activities. Organise arts centre structures. Consult with relevant
stakeholders. Identify beneficiaries. Coordinate approval of submissions.
Facilitate access of the art centre. Market the institution to the communities.
Monitor day to day operations of the art centre. Responsible for art centre
material. Develop database for artists. Provide institutional support. Maintain
working relations with the stakeholders. Give support to developing artists.
Monitor progress of artists. Provide administrative support. Draft art centre
business plan. Consolidate and compile quarterly and annual reports. Monitor
budget expenditure and revenue collection. Coordinate procurement
submission. Organise and monitor visitor’s register.
ENQUIRIES : M Gugwana Tel No: (039) 492 0297/0287 e- Recruitment Technical Enquiries
– recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 31/155 : SPORT PROMOTION OFFICER: SPORT DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DSRAC
08/08/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07), (an all-inclusive remuneration)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District (Komani)
106
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification. A minimum of three-year
Degree/Diploma (NQF level 6) as recognised by SAQA in Sport Management
/ Sport Administration / Human Movement studies, or any relevant qualification
coupled with 1 to 2 years’ relevant experience in Sport and Recreation
environment. Competencies: Good communication and organising skills.
Knowledge of relevant pre-scrips in sport and recreation. Ability to work under
pressure. Knowledge of understanding the departmental policies and
procedures. Coaching and mentoring skills. Project and event management
skills. Basic computer skills. Basic knowledge of Financial Administration.
Report writing skills, Presentation skills will be an added advantage.
Knowledge of relevant prescripts. Exposure in several codes or federations. A
valid driving license is required.
DUTIES : Coordinate the establishment and provide support to sport and recreation
structures in schools, wards and local areas, in conjunction with the
stakeholder. Establish and maintain sport and recreation structures and clubs
in schools, wards and local areas. Provide support services to federations,
clubs and school sport structures. Render support to provincial sport academy
and satellites. Implement programmes to increase and improve relations
between sport and recreation stakeholders. Establish good governance
structures of sport and recreation as dictated by relevant legislation. Facilitate
sustainable capacity development programmes in sport within schools, wards,
local areas and districts. Facilitate capacity-building programmes. Create an
enabling environment for talent identification. Administer coach education in
terms of different sporting codes. Monitor and evaluate progress of education
and training activities. Promote sports and skills management. Implement sport
and recreation programmes in the schools, wards, local areas for the
development of sport and recreation. Perform events
management/coordination activities. Liaise with hubs, sport federations, sport
councils and academy to increase the number of participants in sports and
recreation activities. Implement programmes to increase and improve relations
between sports and recreation stakeholders. Plan, develop and implement
school and community sports, school and community mass participation and
high-performance programmes. Formulate and administer league-related
sports programmes. Promote health and fitness in communities. Provide an
oversight role in the implementation of sports academy and recreation council
programmes. Encourage all levels of communities to participate in different
codes of sport and recreation activities. Coordinate flagship programmes
through sport and recreation activities. Monitor and evaluate the compliance
with sport and recreation transformational policies. Monitor the implementation
of all transformation policies and programmes. Promote gender mainstream in
sport and recreation. Promote integrated programmes of all sector
departments and relevant stakeholders. Promote awareness and participation
to all ages, gender and capability categories. Render administrative functions
in relation to programmes that are implemented. Collect, analyze, compile and
update data in all sport and recreational activities. Provide administrative and
technical support with regard to sports and recreation facilities and
infrastructure. Administer the system for storage, maintenance issue and return
of sport and physical recreation equipment. Examine, compile and monitor
transfer payments of funded projects.
ENQUIRIES : T Thomas Tel No: (045) 492 0030/0054 Chris Hani District (Komani) e-
Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 31/156 : HR OFFICER REF NO: DSRAC 09/08/2025
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05), (an all-inclusive remuneration)
CENTRE : Amathole District – East London
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no work experience required. A
Diploma/Degree (NQF level 6/7) in Human Resource Management or any
relevant qualification will be an added advantage. Knowledge of PERSAL and
Pension Case Management (PCM) will be an added advantage. Sound
knowledge of Conditions of Service and other HR-related prescripts. Good
written and verbal communication. Computer literacy. Ability to ensure
maximum level of confidentiality. A valid driving license will be an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Monitor leave management in districts and at administration. Control leave
books and leave registers. Assist with the implementation of Recruitment and
107
Selection. Assist on confirmation of probationary appointment. Assist to
implement services termination and process the benefits. Capture
appointments and promotion of employees on PERSAL. Assist in the
implementation of HR policies. Assist in implementation of service benefits
(Housing and personnel provisioning. Must be able to capture personnel
information on PERSAL and on PCM. Provide good administration. Ensure that
personnel files meet the required standard. Monitor leaves in the office and at
institutions (i.e. libraries and museums). Control leave books and leave
registers. Reconcile and capture all leaves.
ENQUIRIES : B Mbanghata Tel No: (043) 492 1838/1839 Amathole District (East London) e-
Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : This post is earmarked for persons with disabilities.
POST 31/157 : SCHOOL SPORT COORDINATOR (X2 POSTS)
(Conditional Grant contract as date of assumption to 31 March 2028)
Re-advertisement, previous applicants are encouraged to apply again.
SALARY : R142 701 – R168 093 per annum (Level 5/8), (an all-inclusive remuneration),
(37% in lieu of benefits)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District (Komani) Ref No: DSRAC 10/08/2025 (X1 Post)
Sarah Baartman District (Makanda) Ref No: DSRAC 11/08/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, (NQF Level 4) with no work experience required.
Degree / Diploma in Sport Management or Human Movement Science or any
relevant qualification and an understanding of the MPP Conditional Grant
framework will be an added advantage. 1 – 2 years’ work experience within a
sport and recreation environment will be an added advantage. Good
presentation, verbal and writing skills. Willingness to work under pressure.
Computer skills. A valid code 08 driver’s licence will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Assist in the organising and coordination of school sport. Liaise between
DSRAC and DoE. Compile reports register learners and schools participating
in school sport events. Compiles need analysis and capture data.
ENQUIRIES : A Ngcebetsha Tel No: (043) 492 0211 Districts & Head Office (Qonce) e-
Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
POST 31/158 : GENERAL ASSISTANT – ARCHIVES REF NO: DSRAC 07/08/2025
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02), (an all-inclusive remuneration)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela District (Gqeberha)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 8 certificate or ABET level 4 or NQF leve1 - 3 with no experience.
Performing General Assistant duties will be an added advantage. Must be able
to write and read. Good interpersonal skills. Good Verbal and written
communication skills. Self – motivated. A valid driving licence will be an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Ensure prompt delivery and safe keeping of information. Delivery of documents
within and other departments. Photocopying and faxing documents. Render
transport services for provincial archives staff. Ferry officials and stakeholders
to departmental events. Report all defects in the strongroom to the relevant
official. Perform general assistant work. Collection and delivery of items and
correspondence. Collect and deliver mail to various offices. Load and offload
transfer records, furniture, equipment, and any other goods to relevant
destinations. Assist in making photocopies. Paste notices on notice board.
Provide cleaning services in the strongrooms and the reading room. Clean
offices, boardroom, and walkways. Clean relevant workstations (workshops
and exhibition rooms). Clean general kitchen. Clean restrooms (check toilet
paper). Keep and maintain cleaning materials and equipment. Report broken
cleaning machines and equipment. Clean machines (microwaves, vacuum)
and equipment after use. Request cleaning material. Prepare venue for
functions and meetings. Prepare and wash all utensils to be used (kettle, cups,
saucers, glasses, and jugs). Assist during functions. Perform any other duties
related to general assistant work that may arise or tasked by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : S Java/T Bosman Tel No: (041) 492 1230/1234/1232 Nelson Mandela District
(Gqeberha) e- Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
108
ANNEXURE J
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
OFFICE OF THE PREMIER
Free State Department of the Premier is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer. It is our
intention to promote representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Department through the filling of
positions and candidates whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote representivity; will receive
preference.
APPLICATIONS : Submit by hand to: Room 7, Ground floor, O.R Tambo House, Bloemfontein.
Attention: Thabo Tsotetsi or Leanne Terblanche, or e-mail to
recruitment@fspremier.gov.za .(Please include the reference number in the
subject line)
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025 @ 16:00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted using the newly implemented Z83 form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or the DPSA website, under
public service vacancy circulars and should be accompanied by a
comprehensive CV only (with full particulars of the applicants’ training,
qualifications, competencies, knowledge, duties & experience). All required
information on the Z83 application form must be provided. Communication from
the HR of the Department regarding the submission of certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents will be limited to shortlisted
candidates. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Applications
that do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements will not be
considered. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability
checks/security clearance. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. Applicants are respectfully informed that if no response is
received within 4 months of the closing date, they must accept that their
application was unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill
these positions. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply and
preference will be given to the EE Targets. No late or faxed applications will be
considered.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 31/159 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
REF NO: 01/2025
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (an all-inclusive salary package). The
remuneration package includes a basic salary, State’s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion; and
may include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner’s allowance and
medical aid assistance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A NQF Level 7 qualification as recognised by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). 5 years appropriate experience at a senior managerial level.
Potential applicants for posts in the Senior Management Service as well as
existing SMS members who wish to progress to higher levels within the SMS
are expected to successfully complete the compulsory pre-entry Certificate for
entry into the SMS which took effect on 1 April 2020 (Full details can be sourced
by following the link: http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/. Individual applicants are expected to pay for the course and the
duration of the course is 120 hours). No applicant will be appointed in the
absence of the certificate. Special knowledge of relevant frameworks
applicable to Major Government Programmes that must be implemented.
Special knowledge on the co-ordination and implementation of substantial
programmes/projects. Strategic thinking, project management, financial
management and organizing skills.
DUTIES : Administer the Provincial Bursary function within the FSPG, including: Manage,
coordinate, guide and support all local and international bursaries; and Manage
and coordinate stakeholder management for full-time bursaries for the FSPG.
Coordinate and monitor the implementation of provincial skills development
programmes within the FSPG, including: Facilitate and coordinate the
implementation of provincial skills development; Facilitate and coordinate the
implementation of provincial sector skills development initiatives; Render
109
effective and efficient administrative support services to the Provincial Skills
Development Coordination component; and Render secretariat services for
Human Resource Fora and Career Guidance. Administer proficient and
professional training and development services for the FSPG, including:
Manage generic and operational training for salary levels 1 to 12 within the
FSPG; Manage SMS strategic management development programmes from
salary level 13 and higher within the FSPG; Manage Impact Assessment and
Training evaluation within the FSPG; Manage Public Service skills
development coordination within the FSPG; and Manage logistical and
administrative arrangements for the Free State Academy. Manage resources
of the Chief Directorate, including: Provide strategic direction in terms of
provincial HRD; Manage the budget as a Responsibility Manager; Manage
human resources in line with applicable legislation and policy frameworks; and
Manage equipment and assets in line with prescriptions and policy guidelines.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. Molefinyana Phera, DDG: Corporate Administration and Coordination,
molefinyana.phera@fspremier.gov.za
NOTE : The successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance
Agreement within 3 months after assumption of duty and will be required to
disclose his/her financial interests in accordance with the prescribed
regulations. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a
technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job,
the logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. Following the
interview and technical exercise, the Selection Panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment. The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools.
POST 31/160 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CORPORATE REFORM REF NO: 02/2025
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (an all-inclusive salary package). The
remuneration package includes a basic salary, State’s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion; and
may include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner’s allowance and
medical aid assistance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognized by SAQA preferable in Public
Administration. 5 years appropriate experience at a senior managerial level.
Potential applicants for posts in the Senior Management Service as well as
existing SMS members who wish to progress to higher levels within the SMS
are expected to successfully complete the compulsory pre-entry Certificate for
entry into the SMS which took effect on 1 April 2020 (Full details can be sourced
by following the link: http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/. Individual applicants are expected to pay for the course and the
duration of the course is 120 hours). No applicant will be appointed in the
absence of the certificate. Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies
applicable to transverse corporate reform issues. Knowledge of corporate
reform issues in the public sector. Strategic thinking, Planning & Organising,
Analytical and Problem solving skills.
DUTIES : To co-ordinate Human Resource Matters within the FSPG; including:
Strategically advise on human resource matters within the FSPG; Maintain well
informed and coordinated Human Resource departments; Oversee the
development of transverse Human Resource policies for the FSPG; Provide
strategic direction on transverse labour relations issues to provincial
departments; Provide strategic direction to all provincial departments with
regard to Employee Programme and Occupational Health and Safety; Monitor
and report on the implementation of transverse corporate policies/strategies;
Oversee the outcome of research and analysis of information that will impact
on the future policy direction of FSPG; and Liaise and benchmark with
provincial, national and international stakeholders in order to obtain information
on the latest developments. To manage Organizational Development & related
services & support rendered to the FSPG, including: Ensure that job evaluation
systems is facilitated and coordinated in the FSPG; Ensure that a Performance
Development and Management System is facilitated and coordinated in the
FSPG; Strategically oversee the development of transverse policies/strategies
with regard to Organisational development directorate; Render business
process improvement services to the FSPG; Monitor and report on the
110
implementation of transverse corporate policies/strategies; Oversee the
outcome of research and analysis of information that will impact on the future
policy direction of FSPG; and Liaise and benchmark with provincial, national
and international stakeholders in order to obtain information on the latest
developments. To manage the implementation of Information Communication
Technology with the FSPG, including: Ensure optimum utilization of ICT
resources within the FSPG; Strategically oversee the development of
transverse policies/strategies with regard to ICT; Ensure that ICT is
continuously updated to international standards and is deployed in a uniform
and organized manner; Monitor and report on the implementation of
transverse corporate policies/strategies; Oversee the outcome of research and
analysis of information that will impact on the future policy direction of FSPG;
and Liaise and benchmark with provincial, national and international
stakeholders in order to obtain information on the latest developments. The
management of resources to ensure the effective and efficient attainment of
objectives, including: Management of the budget of Corporate Reform;
Management of all personnel within Corporate Reform; Facilitate changes of
Job Descriptions within the unit; Manage and monitor the performance of
personnel within the unit; Identify and facilitate training needs; and Give
strategic direction & advice to personnel within the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. Molefinyana Phera, DDG: Corporate Administration and Coordination,
molefinyana.phera@fspremier.gov.za
NOTE : The successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance
Agreement within 3 months after assumption of duty and will be required to
disclose his/her financial interests in accordance with the prescribed
regulations. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a
technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job,
the logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. Following the
interview and technical exercise, the Selection Panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment. The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools.
POST 31/161 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: GOVERNMENT COMMUNICATION SERVICES REF
NO: 03/2025
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum. (Level 14), (an all-inclusive salary package). The
remuneration package includes a basic salary, State’s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion; and
may include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner’s allowance and
medical aid assistance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A NQF Level 7 qualification as recognised by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) preferable in the Media/Communication field. 5 years
appropriate experience at a senior managerial level in a similar environment.
Extensive experience with regard to implementing turn-around strategies.
Potential applicants for posts in the Senior Management Service as well as
existing SMS members who wish to progress to higher levels within the SMS
are expected to successfully complete the compulsory pre-entry Certificate for
entry into the SMS which took effect on 1 April 2020 (Full details can be sourced
by following the link: http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/. Individual applicants are expected to pay for the course and the
duration of the course is 120 hours). No applicant will be appointed in the
absence of the certificate. Special knowledge of relevant legislation and
policies applicable to transverse corporate reform issues. Knowledge of
corporate communication and media liaison issues in the Free State and South
Africa. Strategic thinking, analytical and problem solving skills.
DUTIES : Provide strategic direction regarding transverse Government communication
issues to promote an environment conducive to the positive image of the Free
State Provincial Government (FSPG), including: Develop and implement
Provincial Government Communication strategy and ensure alignment with the
3 GNU Priorities, MTDP and FSGDP; Develop operational plans for all the
business units, ensure alignment to the Provincial Communications Strategy;
Continuous monitoring and evaluation of business units’ achievements against
operational plans and strategic objectives; Report quarterly on Annual
Performance Plans; Coordinate and manage the Provincial Communicator’s
111
fora; Provide strategic interventions for corporate communications training
needs of the province. Strategically oversee the development of transverse
policies/strategies with regard to corporate communication and media liaison
that will contribute to the positive image of the FSPG. Event and campaigns
management and ensure successful project management and implementation
to uphold image and reputation of the FSPG, including: Develop and implement
policies governing communication management across various government
departments and agencies; Manage the procurement of media monitoring and
analysis tool for the FSPG and ensure daily, weekly and monthly media
monitoring analysis reports are submitted to departments, executive authority
(EXCO) and forum of heads of departments (FOHOD); Develop and manage
implementation of media strategies and plans; Manage effective participation
of Provincial MLOs and HoCs in the weekly media rapid response platforms
coordinated by GCIS Head Office, to ensure prompt crisis media
communication response; Develop strategic and solid media relationships,
Nationally, Provincially and Locally, and intentionally building media networking
sessions with all media houses; Manage the production and distribution of all
publications; Monitor and manage relevant transversal accounts for
advertising, events and media marketing service providers and measure
performance against the agreed upon SLAs; and Manage the coordination and
development of project plans for all events and marketing campaigns
programmes. Provide Strategic direction in the development of the Provincial
Digital Content Footprint, Digital Hub for all created content across social
media platforms. Manage Website look & feel, content upload and updates.
Develop footage archiving and stock piling plan for all produced video and
photographic content. Develop Branding and Marketing strategy. Establish
standards operating procedures and guidelines for all government
communications to ensure consistency in messaging, branding, graphic
designs and digital footprint of the FSPG. Manage the conceptualization and
execution of Provincial social media strategy and implementation plan across
all social media platforms of the Provincial Government. Manage the
establishment of social media influencer databases and oversee accurate
deployment to enhance government social media messaging across all social
media platforms. Manage the development and production of all brand
marketing collateral and oversee safe upkeep of all branding material. Manage
the development of a digital content hub of all produced footage and stockpiles
(videography and photography). Manage the FSPG website, content uploads,
look & feel and its functionality as part of the province’s external corporate
communications tool. Attend Provincial and National Fora regarding transverse
corporate communications and media networking, to enhance our
strategies/policies for effective communication and report on progress. Liaise
with provincial, national and international stakeholders in order to obtain
information on the latest developments with regard to corporate communication
and media liaison. Participate in all Provincial strategic fora i.e, EXCO, PCF,
FOHOD, SMS group, PCF (Provincial Communicators Forum) LGCF (Local
Government Communicators Forum). Identify strategic partnerships and
pursue collaborations with public and private sector stakeholders to enhance
government programmes. Participate in offered training programmes for
corporate comms, media relations, digital and brand marketing, to keep
abreast with developments in the sector. Advocate for public policies and
government initiatives by engaging with stakeholders, influencers, and opinion
leaders. Manage the government’s image and reputation through proactive
public relations efforts, including community outreach and events. Design and
execute public information campaigns to raise awareness about government
policies, programs, and services. Budget & Financial Management, including:
Develop and manage budget of the unit by ensuring financial efficiency and
compliance; Ensure that budget is costed to support the implementation of the
communication strategy; Maximize revenue and reduce expenditure through
effective cost containment measures; Monitor financial control, spending
patterns through monthly reports and ensure compliance of procurement
processes with all applicable legislation i.e. PFMA, BBBEE; and Ensure audit
compliance and attend to audit queries. Overall management of the
Component to ensure the effective and efficient utilization of resources
including the management of the performance of the personnel falling under
this component; Provide strategic direction and management of all personnel
in Government Communication Service; Facilitate changes of Job Descriptions
within the unit; Manage and monitor the performance of personnel within the
112
unit; Conduct skills audits and identify and facilitate training needs for
development; Drive implementation of talent acquisition, succession planning
and retention of skilled personnel; Create a high-performance culture, ethical
and professional conduct within the unit; Ensure the working environment
contributes to improving employee engagement, recognition and increased
productivity; and Ensure the management of poor performance and disciplinary
matters in line with public service regulations and applicable prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. Molefinyana Phera, DDG: Corporate Administration and Coordination,
molefinyana.phera@fspremier.gov.za
NOTE : The successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance
Agreement within 3 months after assumption of duty and will be required to
disclose his/her financial interests in accordance with the prescribed
regulations. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a
technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job,
the logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. Following the
interview and technical exercise, the Selection Panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment. The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools.
POST 31/162 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL INTERVENTION REF NO: 04/2025
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (an all-inclusive salary package). The
remuneration package includes a basic salary, State’s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion; and
may include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner’s allowance and
medical aid assistance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A NQF Level 7 qualification as recognised by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) in the Social Science field. 5 years appropriate experience
at a senior managerial level in a similar environment. Extensive experience in
developing & implementing turn-around strategies. Experience in budgeting
and financial management. Potential applicants for posts in the Senior
Management Service as well as existing SMS members who wish to progress
to higher levels within the SMS are expected to successfully complete the
compulsory pre-entry Certificate for entry into the SMS which took effect on 1
April 2020 (Full details can be sourced by following the link:
http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.
Individual applicants are expected to pay for the course and the duration of the
course is 120 hours). No applicant will be appointed in the absence of the
certificate. Special knowledge of relevant legislation and policies applicable to
transverse corporate reform issues. Strategic thinking, analytical and problem
solving skills.
DUTIES : Manage Premier’s Intervention Services, including: Ensure the rendering of
Community Contact Services; Ensure research and technical support services
in terms of interventions; Manage Provincial Intervention Services; and
Manage Local Intervention Services. Manage Premier’s Public and Community
Contact Centre, including: Coordinate and render the Presidents Hot Line
services in the FSPG; and Coordinate and render Provincial Contact Centre
Service in the FSPG. Manage CDW Coordination and Thusong Services within
the FSPG, including: Manage CDW Services within the FSPG; and Manage
Thusong Service Centres within the FSPG. The management of resources to
ensure the effective and efficient attainment of objectives, including:
Management of the budget of the component as Sub Programme Manager;
Management of all personnel within the component; Co-ordination of the
development of Job Descriptions within the component; Co-ordination of the
evaluation of performance of personnel within the component; Facilitate
training interventions; and Provide strategic direction & advice to officials within
the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N. Tyali, Acting DDG: Provincial Monitoring and Evaluation at 072 408
7322
NOTE : The successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance
Agreement within 3 months after assumption of duty and will be required to
disclose his/her financial interests in accordance with the prescribed
regulations. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a
technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job,
113
the logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. Following the
interview and technical exercise, the Selection Panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment. The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools.
POST 31/163 : DIRECTOR: ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO: 05/2025
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive salary package). The
remuneration package includes a basic salary, State’s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion; and
may include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner’s allowance and
medical aid assistance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A NQF Level 7 qualification as recognised by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). Training in Job Evaluation & Performance Management. 5
years of experience at a middle/senior managerial level in an Organisational
Development environment. Potential applicants for posts in the Senior
Management Service as well as existing SMS members who wish to progress
to higher levels within the SMS are expected to successfully complete the
compulsory pre-entry Certificate for entry into the SMS which took effect on 1
April 2020 (Full details can be sourced by following the link:
http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.
Individual applicants are expected to pay for the course and the duration of the
course is 120 hours). No applicant will be appointed in the absence of the
certificate. Knowledge of Public Service Act & Regulations, Policy analysis &
development, Job Analysis and Job Evaluation principles. Knowledge of
Organisational and Structural Design and Performance Management
principles. Strategic Thinking, Inter-personal, Facilitation training &
presentation skills.
DUTIES : The effective & efficient management of the Job Evaluation System for the
public service in the Free State, including: Determine the strategic direction on
job evaluation matters for the public service in the Free State; Advise Provincial
Departments on job evaluation implementation including the interpretation
thereof (including FOHOD, G & A Cluster & EXCO); Advise the Provincial Job
Evaluation Panel on job evaluation matters; Manage job evaluation data base
(the Equate System); Co-ordinate training initiatives on job evaluation; Co-
ordinate Job Evaluation Quality Assurance forum; Co-ordinate the compilation
of the annual job evaluation report for the FSPG; Co-ordinate and part-take in
Inter-Provincial Job Evaluation forums; and Co-ordinate research on job
evaluation and job evaluation systems. The management of Performance and
Development System towards improved service delivery & productivity within
the Free State Provincial Government, including: Determine the strategic
direction on performance management matters within the Free State Provincial
Government; Advise on the management of performance and the
implementation of relevant systems (including FOHOD, G & A Cluster &
EXCO); Co-ordinate research on Performance and Development and
Performance Management Systems; Co-ordinate Inter-Departmental Task
Team meetings; and Co-ordinate reporting mechanisms on performance
management (to EXCO, DPSA and PS Commission). The effective
management of Business Process Improvement for the Public Service in the
Free State, including: Give strategic Direction on business process
improvement, productivity enhancement and transformation for the public
service in the Free State; Manage the data bases of the approved
organisational and establishment structures for all Provincial Departments
within the FSPG; Assist Provincial Departments regarding consultation with the
MPSA on organisational & establishment matters; Co-ordinate research and
benchmarks on business process improvement practices; Co-ordinate
investigations on business process improvement matters within FSPG
Provincial Departments; and Facilitation of the development of organisational
structure design and other change & transformational matters within FSPG
Provincial Departments. The effective management of Customer Care and
Service Delivery Improvement Strategy for the Public Service in the Free State,
including: Give strategic direction on Service Delivery Improvement Planning,
Batho Pele and Customer Care initiatives; Advice on the implementation of
Service Delivery Improvement Planning, Batho Pele and Customer Care
114
initiatives; Co-ordinate Inter-Departmental Task Team meetings; and Co-
ordinate reporting mechanisms on Service Delivery Improvement Planning,
Batho Pele and Customer Care initiatives. (to EXCO, DPSA and DPME).
Facilitate and coordinate the implementation of knowledge management within
the Free State Provincial Government, including: Implement knowledge
management within the Office of the Premier; and Facilitate and coordinate
knowledge management within the Free State Provincial Government. The
management of resources to ensure that the overall objectives of the
Organisational Development Directorate are achieved, including: Management
of the budget of the Organisational Development Directorate; Management of
all staff within the Organisational Development Directorate; Co-ordination of
the development of Job Descriptions within the unit; Co-ordination of the
management of performance of staff within the unit; Facilitation of training
interventions for staff; and Give strategic direction and advice to staff within the
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. Molefinyana Phera, DDG: Corporate Administration and Coordination,
molefinyana.phera@fspremier.gov.za
NOTE : The successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance
Agreement within 3 months after assumption of duty and will be required to
disclose his/her financial interests in accordance with the prescribed
regulations. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a
technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job,
the logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. Following the
interview and technical exercise, the Selection Panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment. The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools.
POST 31/164 : DIRECTOR: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY REF NO: 06/2025
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum. (Level 13), (an all-inclusive salary package). The
remuneration package includes a basic salary, State’s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion; and
may include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, homeowner’s allowance and
medical aid assistance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A NQF Level 7 qualification as recognised by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) in Information Technology and Information Management. 5
years appropriate experience at a middle/senior managerial level. Potential
applicants for posts in the Senior Management Service as well as existing SMS
members who wish to progress to higher levels within the SMS are expected
to successfully complete the compulsory pre-entry Certificate for entry into the
SMS which took effect on 1 April 2020 (Full details can be sourced by following
the link: http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.
Individual applicants are expected to pay for the course and the duration of the
course is 120 hours). No applicant will be appointed in the absence of the
certificate. Knowledge of Public Service Legislation, ICT Policy and Strategies,
ICT Tenders and ICT Acquisition and Deployment. Knowledge of Business
Agreements and Service Level Agreements. ICT Research, formal
presentation, organizing and negotiation skills.
DUTIES : To ensure that Information Communication Technology (ICT) is deployed in a
uniform and organised manner within the national policy framework, including:
Oversee the establishment of an information plan, information technology plan
and operational plans to give effect to the strategic direction and management
plans of provincial departments; Align the FSPG's information management
(information management systems included) and information technology (as
enabler) strategy with the strategic direction, management plans and the
business processes of the Province, with due consideration of the strategic
direction of the Government; Develop departmental supporting information
management and information technology enabler policies and strategies,
regulations, standards, norms, guidelines, best practices and procedures,
derived from the national information management and information technology
policy and strategy, standards and norms developed by the GITO Council and
DPSA, but focused on the specific requirements of the department; Facilitate
the implementation of and adherence to the policies and strategies as
contained in the different plans, policies, etc.; Manage the SITA relationship:
115
This entails control of the Business Agreement (BA) and Service Level
Agreements (SLA’s) with SITA and/or other suppliers of information
management and information technology goods and services. Represent the
relevant department at the GITO Council, including: Participate as a member
on the National Government Information Technology Officer’s Council
(GITOC). To ensure the optimum utilisation of ICT resources within the Office
of the Premier, including: Promote effective management of information and
information technology as enabler as a strategic resource; Create an enabling
environment for other managers to perform their functions more effectively and
efficiently; Close communication as part of the top management team of the
department with the top echelon of the department to promote the utilisation of
information; Raising the level of awareness of top management to the potential
of the delivery of information services through enabling technologies; Change
the culture of the department to embrace an enterprise-wide information
management and information technology approach. This requires the visible,
strong and continuous support of senior managers; and take a leadership role
in knowledge management. To provide support to other provincial departments,
including: Apply an enterprise wide approach to the use of information
management, (information technology systems and infrastructure included) in
supporting the business units and business processes, bridging diverse
systems to establish a client-focused service strategy, eliminating unnecessary
duplication, increase overall co-ordination and control, and rapidly introduce
new systems and technology to improve service delivery; Development
information and technology systems infrastructure architecture and conduct
investigations into the maintenance of existing technologies, availability, needs
and demand of new technologies. Rationalise unnecessary duplication and
redundancy of information and technologies in the department. Where feasible,
promote common solutions for common requirements across the department;
and promote the utilisation of technology as a key enabler for the future in
delivering information and services and promote its use in the re-
engineering/transformation of government service delivery. To manage
resources to ensure that the objectives of the component are achieved,
including: Management of staff within the component; The development and
updating of Job Descriptions for reporting staff; The performance management
of staff within the component; Facilitation of training interventions; and Give
direction, guidance and advice to staff within the component.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. Molefinyana Phera, DDG: Corporate Administration and Coordination,
molefinyana.phera@fspremier.gov.za
NOTE : The successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance
Agreement within 3 months after assumption of duty and will be required to
disclose his/her financial interests in accordance with the prescribed
regulations. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a
technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job,
the logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. Following the
interview and technical exercise, the Selection Panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment. The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools.
POST 31/165 : DIRECTOR: SPECIAL PROGRAMMES REF NO: 07 /2025
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive salary package). The
remuneration package includes a basic salary, State’s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion; and
may include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner’s allowance and
medical aid assistance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A NQF Level 7 qualification as recognised by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). 5 years of experience at a middle/senior managerial level in
a similar environment. Relevant experience in developing & implementing turn-
around strategies. Potential applicants for posts in the Senior Management
Service as well as existing SMS members who wish to progress to higher levels
within the SMS are expected to successfully complete the compulsory pre-
entry Certificate for entry into the SMS which took effect on 1 April 2020 (Full
details can be sourced by following the link: http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Individual applicants are expected to pay
116
for the course and the duration of the course is 120 hours). No applicant will
be appointed in the absence of the certificate. Relevant experience in
Budgeting, Financial Management and in Project Management. Knowledge of
legislation & policies applicable to special programmes. Coordination,
monitoring & evaluation mechanisms systems and processes. Strategic
thinking, inter-personal and organising and planning skills.
DUTIES : Develop and monitor various transverse policies/strategies with regard to
special programme, including: Establish and maintain a database of
international, national and provincial policies/strategies with regard to special
programmes; Analyse and update provincial policies/strategies; Identify the
need for new policies/strategies; Facilitate the development of new provincial
policies/strategies; Facilitate the establishment of the necessary institutional
machinery at Local Government level to deal with special programmes; Do
presentations to decision making structures within the department of the
Premier and the FSPG with regard to the proposed policies/strategies; Monitor
and report on the implementation of the Provincial Policies/Strategies; Assist
departments with the development of departmental policies/strategies; Align all
provincial policies/strategies with national priorities; Align all provincial
policies/strategies with the Free State Growth and Development Strategy; Set
up appropriate structures to enhance monitoring; and Design
frameworks/indicators on special programmes to use as monitoring tools.
Manage special projects with regard to special programmes as identified by
the Premier, including: Organize and/or co-ordinate activities for
commemoration of special days and events applicable to special programmes
or assigned to Special Programmes by the Premier. Implement Special
Programmes in the Office of the Premier, including: Customize provincial
special programmes policies for the Office of the Premier; and Monitor the
implementation of special programme policies in the Office of the Premier. The
management of resources to ensure the effective and efficient attainment of
objectives, including: Management of the budget of the Special Programmes
Directorate; Management of all personnel within the Special Programmes
Directorate; d Co-ordination of the development of Job descriptions within the
Directorate; Co-ordination of the evaluation of performance of personnel within
the Directorate; Facilitation of training intervention; and Give strategic direction
& advice to personnel within the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. MP Mokalobe, Deputy Director General: Provincial Policy Planning and
Coordination at 079 882 0300
NOTE : The successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance
Agreement within 3 months after assumption of duty and will be required to
disclose his/her financial interests in accordance with the prescribed
regulations. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a
technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job,
the logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. Following the
interview and technical exercise, the Selection Panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment. The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools.
POST 31/166 : DIRECTOR: PUBLIC & COMMUNITY LIASON CENTRE REF NO: 08/2025
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive salary package). The
remuneration package includes a basic salary, State’s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion; and
may include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner’s allowance and
medical aid assistance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A NQF Level 7 qualification as recognised by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) in the Social Science field. 5 years of experience at a
middle/senior managerial level in a similar environment. Relevant experience
in developing & implementing turn-around strategies. Potential applicants for
posts in the Senior Management Service as well as existing SMS members
who wish to progress to higher levels within the SMS are expected to
successfully complete the compulsory pre-entry Certificate for entry into the
SMS which took effect on 1 April 2020 (Full details can be sourced by following
the link: http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.
Individual applicants are expected to pay for the course and the duration of the
117
course is 120 hours). No applicant will be appointed in the absence of the
certificate. Knowledge of legislation & policies applicable to Community Liaison
services. Knowledge of policy analysis & development, coordination,
monitoring & evaluation mechanisms, systems and processes. Strategic
Thinking, Interpersonal, Organising and Planning and problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : Strategic Management of Direct Liaison Services; including: Ensure the
prevention or ending of social conflict in terms of service delivery issues:
Develop and implement proactive strategies for identifying and mitigating
potential service delivery flashpoints; Establish robust early warning systems
for emerging community grievances related to service delivery; Lead and direct
rapid response interventions to address and de-escalate social conflicts arising
from service delivery challenges; and Cultivate and maintain strong
relationships with community leaders, civil society organizations, and relevant
government departments to facilitate conflict resolution. Promote a healthy
relationship between the community and the FSPG: Design and oversee the
implementation of communication strategies that foster transparency, trust, and
mutual understanding between the FSPG and its citizens; Initiate and manage
community outreach programs to gather feedback, disseminate information,
and build goodwill; Champion citizen participation initiatives to empower
communities in shaping service delivery solutions; and Monitor and evaluate
public perception of the FSPG, implementing corrective measures where
necessary to enhance positive relationships. Support the Moral Regeneration
Movement of the FSPG: Integrate the principles of the Moral Regeneration
Movement into all direct liaison activities and community engagement
strategies; Lead initiatives that promote ethical conduct, accountability, and
good governance within the context of service delivery; and Collaborate with
relevant stakeholders to amplify messages of moral regeneration and their
practical application in community interactions. Ensure counselling services
are rendered as identified: Establish protocols and partnerships for the
provision of appropriate counselling services to individuals or communities
affected by service delivery challenges; Oversee the identification of specific
needs for counselling interventions and ensure timely and sensitive referrals;
and Monitor the effectiveness of counselling services and adapt approaches
as required to meet community needs. Strategic Management of the Provincial
Call Centre (Including Presidential and Premier's Hotlines), including:
Coordinate the complaints of the President’s Hotline with relevant
stakeholders: Develop and implement efficient systems for the rapid reception,
categorization, and routing of complaints received via the President's Hotline;
Establish and maintain high-level liaison with national government
departments and provincial departments and municipalities to ensure timely
and effective resolution of complaints; Ensure rigorous tracking and monitoring
of all Presidential Hotline complaints through to their resolution; and Prepare
comprehensive analytical reports on trends and patterns identified from
Presidential Hotline complaints for strategic decision-making at the highest
levels. Coordinate the complaints of the Premier’s Hotline with relevant
stakeholders: Oversee the seamless operation of the Premier's Hotline,
ensuring prompt and accurate capture of all complaints; Build and maintain
strong collaborative relationships with all Free State Provincial Government
departments and entities to facilitate efficient complaint resolution; Implement
robust follow-up mechanisms to ensure that complaints are addressed within
stipulated timeframes and to the satisfaction of the complainant; and Conduct
regular quality assurance checks on the handling and resolution of Premier's
Hotline complaints. Report on progress and tendencies in respect of the
complaints received: Develop and present comprehensive, data-driven reports
on the volume, nature, progress, and resolution of complaints from both
hotlines to senior management and relevant executive authorities; Identify
recurring service delivery issues and systemic challenges highlighted by the
complaints data; Provide strategic recommendations to relevant departments
and the FSPG leadership to address identified tendencies and improve service
delivery; and Utilize data analytics to forecast potential service delivery
pressure points and inform proactive interventions. Strategic Management of
Thusong Service Centres (hubs) and Integrated Mobile Services ( National
departments, Provincial departments and Municipalities), including: Increase
access to government services through the strategic oversight of Thusong
Service Centres: Provide strategic leadership for the effective operation and
expansion of Thusong Service Centres across the province; Ensure that
Thusong Service Centres are optimally resourced and equipped to provide a
118
comprehensive range of government services to communities; Foster strong
inter-departmental collaboration to maximize the service offerings and impact
of Thusong Centres; and Monitor and evaluate the accessibility, efficiency, and
effectiveness of services rendered at Thusong Centres, implementing
improvements as necessary. Strategic Management of Community Workers
Development Programme, including: Coordinate government service delivery
to the communities through the effective deployment of Community
Development Workers: Provide strategic direction and oversight to the network
of Community Development Workers (CDWs) across the province; Ensure that
CDWs are adequately trained, equipped, and supported to effectively bridge
the gap between communities and government services; Develop clear
mandates and performance indicators for CDWs, aligning their activities with
broader community development objectives; Facilitate seamless collaboration
between CDWs and relevant government departments to ensure coordinated
and responsive service delivery; and Monitor and evaluate the impact and
effectiveness of CDW interventions, identifying best practices and areas for
improvement. Determine the needs of the communities with regards to
government services: Develop and implement robust methodologies for
conducting comprehensive community needs assessments, utilizing both
qualitative and quantitative approaches; Oversee the collection, analysis, and
interpretation of data on community needs and priorities related to government
services; and Engage directly with communities through various platforms
(e.g., public meetings, focus groups, surveys) to accurately ascertain their
service delivery requirements. Strategic Resource Management and
Organisational Leadership, including: Management of the budget of the
component.: Develop, manage, and monitor the annual budget for the Public
and Community Liaison Centre, ensuring fiscal prudence and alignment with
strategic objectives; Implement robust financial controls and reporting
mechanisms to ensure accountability and transparency in expenditure; and
Identify opportunities for resource optimization and secure additional funding
where necessary to enhance service delivery capabilities. Management of all
personnel within the component: Provide visionary leadership and effective
management to all staff within the Public and Community Liaison Centre;
Foster a high-performance culture, promoting teamwork, innovation, and
continuous professional development.; Oversee talent acquisition, retention,
and succession planning within the component.; and Ensure compliance with
all human resource policies and labour relations frameworks. Co-ordination of
the development of Job Descriptions within the component. Lead and guide
the development and regular review of comprehensive and accurate job
descriptions for all positions within the Centre, ensuring alignment with
organizational goals; Co-ordination of the evaluation of performance of
personnel within the component; Establish and implement a robust
performance management system for all staff, setting clear objectives,
providing regular feedback, and conducting fair and objective performance
appraisals; and Identify training and development needs based on
performance evaluations and facilitate appropriate interventions. Facilitate
training interventions: Identify critical skills gaps within the component and
develop targeted training programs to enhance the capabilities of staff,
particularly in areas of conflict resolution, data analysis, and community
engagement; and Promote continuous learning and professional development
opportunities for all personnel. Provide strategic direction & advice to officials
within the component: Offer expert guidance, mentorship, and strategic advice
to all officials within the Public and Community Liaison Centre, empowering
them to excel in their roles; and Act as a key resource and escalation point for
complex issues, providing decisive leadership and solutions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N. Tyali, Acting DDG: Provincial Monitoring and Evaluation at 072 408
7322
NOTE : The successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance
Agreement within 3 months after assumption of duty and will be required to
disclose his/her financial interests in accordance with the prescribed
regulations. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a
technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job,
the logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. Following the
interview and technical exercise, the Selection Panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment. The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools.
119
POST 31/167 : DIRECTOR: DELIVERY INTERVENTION REF NO: 09/2025
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive salary package). The
remuneration package includes a basic salary, State’s contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and a flexible portion which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion; and
may include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner’s allowance and
medical aid assistance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A NQF Level 7 qualification as recognised by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) in Public Management, Business Management or Project
Management. A postgraduate qualification will be an added advantage. 5 years
of experience at a middle/senior managerial level with strong preference for
experience within a government or public sector environment. Extensive
experience in project management methodologies, extensive experience in
stakeholder engagement and a proven track record in successful service
delivery initiatives. Potential applicants for posts in the Senior Management
Service as well as existing SMS members who wish to progress to higher levels
within the SMS are expected to successfully complete the compulsory pre-
entry Certificate for entry into the SMS which took effect on 1 April 2020 (Full
details can be sourced by following the link: http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Individual applicants are expected to pay
for the course and the duration of the course is 120 hours). No applicant will
be appointed in the absence of the certificate. Knowledge of relevant
frameworks applicable to Major Government Programmes. Knowledge on the
co-ordination and implementation of substantial programmes/projects. High
level strategic thinking, project planning, analytical and problem solving skills.
DUTIES : Strategic Oversight and Management of Premier's Special Service Delivery
Operations, including: Develop and execute comprehensive strategies for the
effective coordination and execution of special service delivery operations
initiated by the Premier across the entirety of the Free State Province; Conduct
rigorous evaluations and provide insightful reports on the tangible impact of the
Premier's special service delivery operations within the province, highlighting
successes and areas for improvement; Represent the FSPG at both provincial
and national forums concerning special service delivery operations, actively
contributing to strategic development and providing transparent reports on
implementation progress to key stakeholders; Facilitate the prompt and
effective implementation of injunctions related to the Premier's special service
delivery operations by ensuring seamless referral to the appropriate provincial
departments; and Maintain continuous oversight and provide regular, detailed
reports on the implementation progress of all injunctions stemming from the
Premier's special service delivery operations. The rendering of stakeholder
engagement and support services within the FSPG, including: Cultivate and
sustain robust relationships with a diverse range of provincial and national
stakeholders to forge strategic partnerships that facilitate successful project
implementation; Orchestrate and facilitate service delivery task team meetings
within various municipalities, fostering a collaborative environment to
proactively address and resolve localized challenges; Proactively identify and
resolve challenges that may arise between service providers and government
entities, ensuring smooth and efficient service delivery; and Establish and
maintain clear, effective communication channels between service providers
and the FSPG, promoting seamless collaboration and mutual understanding.
The coordination of technical and professional services within the FSPG,
including: Implement targeted strategies to enhance capacity within distressed
projects, meticulously identifying critical areas requiring intervention and
improvement; Coordinate the provision of essential technical and professional
services across the FSPG to effectively address and mitigate challenges
encountered in distressed projects; and Monitor and report on the quality,
efficacy, and impact of technical and professional support rendered to
distressed projects, ensuring continuous improvement and optimal outcomes.
Resource Management and Team Leadership, including: Exercise astute
financial stewardship by efficiently managing the allocated budget for the
component, ensuring fiscal responsibility and maximizing resource utilization;
Provide comprehensive oversight and management of all personnel within the
component, fostering a highly productive, collaborative, and high-performing
work environment; Lead the coordination of the development and regular
120
review of comprehensive Job Descriptions for all roles within the component,
ensuring alignment with organizational objectives and evolving needs;
Coordinate and facilitate robust personnel performance evaluations, ensuring
alignment with individual and organizational objectives, and promoting
continuous professional development; Identify critical skill gaps and facilitate
relevant training interventions to enhance the capabilities and professional
growth of the team; and Offer strategic direction and expert guidance to officials
within the component, empowering them to achieve successful project delivery
and contribute to broader provincial goals. Strategic Oversight and
Management of Premier's Special Service Delivery Operations, including:
Develop and execute comprehensive strategies for the effective coordination
and execution of special service delivery operations initiated by the Premier
across the entirety of the Free State Province; Conduct rigorous evaluations
and provide insightful reports on the tangible impact of the Premier's special
service delivery operations within the province, highlighting successes and
areas for improvement; Represent the FSPG at both provincial and national
forums concerning special service delivery operations, actively contributing to
strategic development and providing transparent reports on implementation
progress to key stakeholders.; Facilitate the prompt and effective
implementation of injunctions related to the Premier's special service delivery
operations by ensuring seamless referral to the appropriate provincial
departments; and Maintain continuous oversight and provide regular, detailed
reports on the implementation progress of all injunctions stemming from the
Premier's special service delivery operations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N. Tyali, Acting DDG: Provincial Monitoring and Evaluation at 072 408
7322
NOTE : The successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance
Agreement within 3 months after assumption of duty and will be required to
disclose his/her financial interests in accordance with the prescribed
regulations. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a
technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job,
the logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. Following the
interview and technical exercise, the Selection Panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment. The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools.
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
APPLICATIONS : Applications For the Department of Public Works and Infrastructure to Be
Submitted To: Head: Public Works and Infrastructure, Human Resources
Management Directorate. P.O Box 7551, Bloemfontein, 9300 or Applications
that are hand delivered must be brought at the Foyer of OR Tambo House
where they must be placed in the appropriately marked box at: Security Ground
Floor, or Tambo House, St. Andrews Street, Bloemfontein or e-mail to e-
recruitmentfsdpwi@fsworks.gov.za. No applications will be accepted by staff in
offices in the building.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
NOTE : Directions to applicants Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed
Z83 application form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at http://www.info.gov.za. The Z83 should be completed in a manner
that allows the selection committee to assess the application based on the
information provided on the form. Applicants are not required to submit copies
of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit
the Z83 and detailed Curriculum Vitae. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates
for a post will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day
of the interview following communication. If the certified copies contradict the
details on the CV or Z83 form, the candidate will automatically be disqualified
and removed from the shortlist. Should an applicant possess a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Failure to submit the requested
documents will result in the application not being considered. Applicants must
indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications. Should an
applicant wish to apply for more than one post, separate applications must be
submitted i.e. all the documentation must be submitted for each post applied
for. Applications received after the closing date and those that do not comply
with these instructions will not be considered. Candidates requiring additional
121
information regarding the advertised post should direct their enquiries to the
relevant person as indicated in the advertisement. Note: Short-listed
candidates will on the day of interview undergo a security assessment. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks as deemed
appropriate and inclusive inter alia of criminal record check, citizenship
verification, financial/asset record checks, qualification/study verification and
previous employment verification. If you have not been contacted within 4
months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Faxed or late applications will not be accepted.
OTHER POSTS
POST 31/168 : CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER GRADE A REF NO: PWI 25/02 (X2
POSTS)
Project Management Unit
SALARY : R879 342 per annum, (an all-inclusive package). The remuneration package
consists of the basic salary, the Government’s Employee Pension Fund and
flexible portion, which may be structured in terms of the rule for the structuring
of the flexible portion and which may include a 13th cheque, motor car
allowance, housing allowance and medical aid assistance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate degree in the built environment with three years’ relevant
project management experience. Valid driver’s licence with exception of
persons with disabilities. Compulsory registration with the SACPCMP as a
Professional Construction Project Manager. Core And Process Competences:
Decision making. Team leadership. Analytical skills. Creativity. Self-
management. Financial management. Customer focus and responsiveness.
Communication. Computer literacy. Planning and organising. Conflict
management. Problem solving and analysis. People management. Change
management. Innovation. Programme and project management. Project
principles and methodologies. Research and development. Computer-aided
engineering applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report
writing. Creating high performance culture. Technical consulting. Professional
judgement.
DUTIES : Guide the project planning, implementation, monitoring, reporting and
evaluation in line with project management methodology. Create and execute
project work plans and revise as appropriate to meet changing needs and
requirements. Identify resources needed and assign individual responsibilities.
Manage day-to-day operational aspects of a project and scope. Effectively
apply methodology and enforce project standards to minimise risk on projects.
Report project progress to Chief Construction Project Manager. Manage
project budget and resources. Provide inputs to other professionals with tender
administration. Liaise and interact with service providers, clients and
management. Contribute to the human resources and related activities.
Maintain the project management record system. Utilise resources allocated
effectively. Keep up with new technologies and procedures. Research literature
on new developments on project management methodologies. Liaise with
relevant bodies/councils on project management. Give direction to team in
realising the Chief Directorate’s strategic objective. Develop action plans to
execute strategic initiatives. Ensure proper implementation of the budget by
monitoring, projecting and reporting expenditure. Monitor and report on the
utilisation of equipment. Coordinate memorandum of understanding, service
level agreements and expenditure review. Evaluate and monitor performance
and appraisal of employees. Ensure capacity and development of staff.
Manage discipline. Train and oversee Candidate Construction Project
Managers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Mackay Tel No: (051) 492 3718
POST 31/169 : CHIEF ARTISAN GRADE A (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate Works Construction and Maintenance
SALARY : R480 261 per annum (A basic salary), (OSD)
Regions: Mangaung/Xhariep District Office Ref No: PWI 25/03 (X1 Post)
Thabo Mofutsanya District Office Ref No: PWI 25/04 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A completed Apprenticeship and an appropriate Trade Test Certificate in terms
of the Provisions of Section 13(2)(h) of The Manpower Training Act, 1981, as
122
amended or a Certificate issued under the Provision of the Repealed section
of the same Act. Knowledge of Health and Safety. Ten-year post qualification
experi4nce required as an Artisan/Artisan Foreman. Valid driver’s license
(excluding person’s with disabilities).
DUTIES : Manage technical services and support in conjunction with
Technicians/Artisans and associates in field, workshop and technical office
activities. Ensure the promotion of safety in line with statutory and regulatory
requirements. Provide inputs into existing technical manuals, standard
drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology. Ensure quality
assurance in line with specifications. Conduct maintenance of all buildings.
Perform construction work in all civil structures. Maintain good housekeeping
and ensure machinery in the workshop/store is maintained in good condition
Preparation and compilation of material lists. Manage equipment, tools and
machinery used. Manage administrative and related functions Provide inputs
into the budgeting process. Compile and submit reports as required. Provide
and consolidate inputs to the technical operational plan. Update databases.
Manage artisans and related personnel. Supervise and evaluate subordinates.
Financial Management: Control and monitor expenditure according to budget
to ensure efficient cash flow management. Manage the commercial value add
of the discipline related activities and services. Manage the development,
motivation and utilisation of human resources for the discipline to ensure
competent knowledge base for the continued success of technical services
according to organisational needs and requirements. Manage subordinates
‘key performance areas by setting and monitoring performance standards and
taking actions to correct deviations to achieve departmental objectives.
Continuous individual development to keep up with new technologies and
procedures. Research / literature studies on technical / engineering technology
to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies / councils on technical /
engineering –related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T. Khumalo Tel No: (051) 403 7850
POST 31/170 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (CONTRACT MANAGEMENT) REF NO: PWI 25/05
(X1 POST)
Directorate Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized Bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification in
Supply Chain/Contract Management/Commercial/Economical/Financial
Services with 3 years’ experience in the Supply Chain Management field.
Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act, 1999, Treasury
Regulations and Preferential Procurement Police Framework Act (PPPFA). A
valid driver’s license (excluding person’s with disabilities).
DUTIES : Supervise monitor, analyse and determine actions to ensure proper contract
administration. Administer variations to the contracts. Evaluate applications for
price adjustments and invoke penalty clauses. Evaluate applications for
variations, amendments and cancelations and develop proposals for approval.
Undertake dispute resolution and ensure that all documentation is prepared
and available to resolve disputes. Maintain proper relationship with suppliers
with the code of ethics to ensure deliver off goods/services. Supervise, monitor
contract compliance by determining whether product/services are delivered at
the right time, of the right quantity, right products, right place, right conditions,
right quality and right price according to the contract. Supervise and monitor
supplier performance according to the contract and service level agreement.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K. Radebe, Director: Supply Chain Management Tel No: (051) 492 3902
POST 31/171 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (DEMAND MANAGEMENT) REF NO: PWI 25/06
Directorate Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized Bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification in
Supply Chain Management/Commercial/Economical/Financial Services with
relevant 3 years experience in the Supply Chain Management field. Knowledge
of the Public Finance Management Act, 1999, Treasury Regulations and
Preferential Procurement Police Framework Act (PPPFA). A valid driver’s
license (excluding persons with disabilities). Knowledge of BAS and LOGIS
123
systems. Good written and communication skills. Good managerial skills.
Computer skills (MS Word, Excel, Power Point).
DUTIES : Research the relevant identified needs. (in line with the SC strategy). Analyse
requirements, undertake research, determine and develop proposals for
implementation. Asses the results of the research on the market, interprets and
develops proposals for procurement methodology. Ensure compliance with
quality requirements. Determine whether specifications should contain any
special conditions. Coordinate review, collect and collate information for the
annual procurement plan. Collect information from the relevant role players
according to the prescribed template. Check (engage) and analyse the
information. Confirm availability of budget. Check alignment against strategic
and other objectives. Consolidate into procurement plan and table for approval
by the accounting officer. Supervise and compile tender/quotation
specifications as required. Determine whether a specification for the relevant
commodity exists. If not oversee the collection and collation of information and
the compilation of specifications/terms of reference. Compile and publish
request for proposals as required. Develop, implement and maintain the
supplier database. Perform general quality assurance of information in the
supplier database (e.g. check and verify supporting documents). Supervise
employees to ensure an effective demand management service and undertake
all administrative functions required with regard to financial and HR
administration. General supervision of employees. Allocate duties and perform
quality control on the work delivered by supervisees. Advice and lead
supervisees with regard to all aspects of the work. Manage performance,
conduct and discipline of supervisees. Ensure that all supervisees are trained
and developed to be able to deliver work of the required standard efficiently
and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K. Radebe, Director: Supply Chain Management Tel No: (051) 492 3902
POST 31/172 : ARTISAN FOREMAN (X12 POSTS)
Directorate: Works Construction and Maintenance District Offices
SALARY : R382 047 per annum, (A basic salary), (OSD)
CENTRE : Regions: Mangaung District Office (X6 Posts):
Bricklaying Re No: PWI 25/07 (X1 Post)
Carpenter Ref No: PWI 2508 (X2 Posts)
Painter Ref No: PWI 25/09 (X1 Post)
Welder Ref No: PWI 25/10 (X1 Post)
Fitter and Turner: Bloemfontein Ref No: PWI 25/11 (X1 Post)
Lejweleputswa/ Fezile Dabi District Office (X4 Posts)
Carpenter Ref No: PWI 25/12 (X1 Post)
Welding Ref No: PWI 25/13 (X1 Post)
Electrician Ref No: PWI 25/14 (X1 Post)
Bricklayer Ref No: PWI 25/15 (X1 Post)
Thabo Mofutsanyane District Office (X2 Posts):
Bricklayer Ref No: PWI 25/16 (X1 Post)
Plumbing Ref No: PWI 25/17 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A completed Apprenticeship and passed Trade Test in terms of the Provisions
of Section 13(2)(h) of the Manpower Training Act of 1981, as amended or a
Certificate issued under the Provision of the Repealed Section 27 of the same
Act. Knowledge of the Occupational Health and Safety Act, 1993 (Act No. 85
of 1993) (OHS Act).
DUTIES : Supervise and produce designs according to client specification and within
limits of production capability. Produce objects with material and equipment
according to job specification and recognized standards. Quality assurance of
produced objects. Inspect equipment and/or facilities for technical faults.
Repair equipments and facilities according to standards. Test repair equipment
and/or facilities against specifications. Service equipment and/or facilities
according to schedule. Quality assure serviced and maintained equipment
and/or facilities. Update register of maintained and repaired faults. Obtain
quotations and purchase (order) required equipment and materials. Compile
and submit reports required. Provide inputs to the operational plan. Ensure
adherence to safety standards, requirements and regulations. Supervise and
mentor staff. Planning of resources. Scheduling of works. Continuous
individual development to keep up with new technologies and procedures.
Research/literature studies on technical/engineering technology to improve
expertise.
124
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Khumalo Tel No: (051) 403 7850
POST 31/173 : SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTITIONER: VARIOUS REF NO: PWI 25/18 (X3
POSTS)
Directorate Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized National Diploma or equivalent qualification (NQF)
6) in Commercial/Economic/Financial services. 3 years’ experience in supply
chain management. Candidates with a Senior Certificate coupled with
experience in a same or similar environment may also apply. Knowledge of
Public Finance Management Act, 1999 and Treasury Regulations. Knowledge
of the government provisioning and procurement procedures (BAS and
LOGIS). Knowledge of Supply Chain Management and related prescripts and
procedures. Computer literacy. Valid Driver’s License. Planning and organizing
skills. Communication (Written and verbal) skills. Supervisory skills. Monitoring
and evaluation skills. Ability to work independently and under pressure.
Knowledge of BAS and LOGIS systems.
DUTIES : Supervise the activities of the Supply Chain Management Clerks e.g. personnel
development, performance and discipline, ensure quality of work, etc.
Supervise the implementation and maintenance of Supply Chain Management
practices (including LOGIS Transactions) concerning Logistics and Stores and
maintenance of Supply Chain management processes in the department to
contribute to the rendering of a professional Supply Chain Management
Service. Address supply chain management enquiries to ensure the correct
implementation of supply chain management practices. Inform, guide and
advice Department/personnel on supply chain management matters to
enhance to correct implementation of supply chain management practices and
policies. Approve transactions on LOGIS / BAS according to delegations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K. Radebe, Director: Supply Chain Management Tel No: (051) 492 3902
POST 31/174 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A (X14 POSTS)
Directorate: Works Construction and Maintenance District Offices
SALARY : R243 597 per annum, (A basic salary), (OSD)
CENTRE : Regions: Mangaung/Xhariep District Office (X8 Posts):
Bricklaying: Ref No: PWI 25/19 (X1 Post)
Carpenter: Ref No: PWI 25/20 (X1 Post)
Carpenter: Ref No: PWI 25/21 (X1 Post)
Painter: Ref No: PWI 25/22 (X1 Post)
Plumber: Ref No: PWI 25/23 (X2 Posts)
Refrigeration/HVAC Ref No: PWI 25/24 (X1 Post)
Lejweleputswa/ Fezile Dabi District Office (X3 Posts)
Plumbing Kroonstad Ref No: PWI 25/25 (X1 Post)
Welding Kroonstad Ref No: PWI 25/26 (X1 Post)
Welding Welkom Ref No: PWI 25/27 (X1 Post)
Thabo Mofutsanyane District Office (X3 Posts):
Painter: Ref No: PWI 25/28 (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : A completed Apprenticeship and passed Trade Test in terms of the Provisions
of Section 13(2)(h) of the Manpower Training Act of 1981, as amended or a
Certificate issued under the Provision of the Repealed Section 27 of the same
Act. Knowledge of the Occupational Health and Safety Act, 1993 (Act No. 85
of 1993) (OHS Act).
DUTIES : Produce designs according to client specification and within limits of production
capability. Produce objects with material and equipment according to job
specification and recognized standards. Quality assurance of produced
objects. Inspect equipment and/or facilities for technical faults. Repair
equipment and facilities according to standards. Test repair equipment and/or
facilities against specifications. Service equipment and/or facilities according
to schedule. Quality assure serviced and maintained equipment and/or
facilities. Compile and submit reports. Provide inputs to the operational plan.
Keep and maintain job record/register, supervise and mentor staff. Continuous
individual development to keep up with new technologies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Khumalo Tel No: (051) 403 7850
125
POST 31/175 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK REF NO: PWI 25/29 (X3 POSTS)
Directorate Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 or equivalent (NQF 4) qualification. Computer literacy. Good
interpersonal, communication and writing skills.
DUTIES : Implement and administer Supply Chain Management practices (including
LOGIS Transactions) concerning Logistics, and Stores and maintenance of
supply chain management processes in the department to contribute to the
rendering of a professional Supply Chain Management Service. Logistics
(Ordering, Payments, Transit IN, Transit OUT, Warehouse, Quotations, e.g.)
Assets (Disposals) Loss Control Demands Acquisitions, 2. Address Supply
Chain Management enquiries to ensure the correct implementation of supply
chain management practices. Keep and maintain fiscal records of equipment
and assets of the department according to the asset management plan. Ensure
that proper procedures and processes are followed in the procurement of office
equipment. Order, store, check and issue equipment and accessories including
stationery to components and individuals in need. Handling of the procurement
of standard office equipment/items (stationery). Operate computer systems
that provide logistic support.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K. Radebe, Director: Supply Chain Management Tel No: (051) 492 3864
126
ANNEXURE K
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
It is the department’s intention to promote equity through the filling of all numeric targets as contained in
the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication of race, gender and
disability status is required. The Department also urges all designated groups applying for positions to
please direct your applications to the Employment Equity Office for attention Ms M Mzamela. All
applicants are also encouraged to number the pages of their CV and the attached certified documents.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants with disabilities are encouraged to apply. To apply for the below
positions, please apply online at http://professionaljobcentre.gpg.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
NOTE : If you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date
of this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
All appointments are subject to the verification of educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting.
Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will
recommend candidates to attend generic managerial competency assessment
(where applicable). The department reserves the right to fill or not to fill the
vacant post. The successful candidates will enter into an employment contract
with the GDSD that will be reviewed based on performance expiration.
OTHER POSTS
POST 31/176 : CHIEF ENGINEER: CIVIL/STRUCTURAL REF NO: REFS/023292
SALARY : R1 266 450 - R2 388 657 per annum, (within the OSD framework)
CENTRE : Head Office (Johannesburg)
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree in Engineering with 6 years appropriate experience after qualification
has been obtained. Registration with the South African Council for Engineering
Council as a Professional Chief Engineer: Civil/Structural. Valid driver’s
licence. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Develop and maintain functional and technical norms and standards from an
engineering perspective. Manage condition assessment and credibility of
technical information. Manage adherence to environmental and occupational
health and safety aspects. Investigate proposal for innovative service delivery
mechanisms and undertake feasibility studies. Compile briefing documentation
and specifications from an engineering perspective. Prepare the User Asset
Management Plan. Make inputs to the Constriction Procurement Strategy and
the Infrastructure Programme Management Plan. Conduct post project and
post occupancy evaluations. Manage people.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Mbhense Tel No: (011) 355 7703
NOTE : NB: The selection and appointment of candidates is subject to positive vetting
and verification requirements as per government policy and procedures. The
Department reserves the right to fill or not to fill this position(s).
POST 31/177 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE NPO MONITORING REF NO:
REFS/023286
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package which includes basic salary of
70% of the package and a flexible portion that may be structured in terms of
the applicable MMS guidelines per annum).
CENTRE : Head Office (Johannesburg)
REQUIREMENTS : 3-year tertiary qualification in Built Environment with 5 years’ middle
management experience in the Public-Sector portfolio management. A valid
South African Driver’s License. Honesty, integrity, attention to detail and be
technically orientated. Knowledge of the PFMA, DoRA, Treasury regulations,
national building standards, Occupational Health and Safety Acts and
Regulations. Skills: Building, Strategic and Project management skills.
DUTIES : Assessment for accreditation and aligning of national strategy for application
in the province. Manage the development and updating of all infrastructure
policies, norms and standards in line with nationally prescribed policies. Ensure
that all maintenance projects comply with policies, norms and standards as
stated in the National Treasury Instruction. Develop maintenance priority lists
and costs. Management of procurement costs for all NPO maintenance
projects in Gauteng IDMS control framework. Management of contracts in line
127
SANS, OHS Act, Regulations and Construction Regulations. Design and
update OHS tools for monitoring of all NPO facilities. Monitoring and reporting
of monthly and quarterly reports. Maintain discipline, manage performance and
development of employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Skosana Tel No: (011) 227 0069
NOTE : NB: The selection and appointment of candidates is subject to positive vetting
and verification requirements as per government policy and procedures. The
Department reserves the right to fill or not to fill this position(s).
POST 31/178 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT AND COORDINATION
REF NO: REFS/023288
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive package), which includes basic salary of
70% of the package and a flexible portion that may be structured in terms of
the applicable MMS guidelines per annum).
CENTRE : Head Office (Johannesburg) Office of the MEC
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification in Office Administrations or equivalent
qualification in administration. 3-5 years administrative experience. Broad
knowledge and understanding of the functional areas covered by the executive
authority’s portfolio. Valid driver’s license (code B). Skills and Competencies:
Honesty and Integrity, innovative individual, through to details. Team working,
interpersonal relations, analytical, report writing, planning and co-ordinating,
workflow coordination, strategic capability & leadership, programme and
project management, financial Management, problem solving & analysis,
people management and Empowerment, Governances. A valid driver’s license
is required.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support and receptionist services in the office of the
executive authority. Provide registry support services in the office of the
executive authority. Provide messenger and driver services in the office of the
executive authority. Provide logistical support for meetings to the executive
authority.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Moloi Tel No: (011) 227 0062
NOTE : NB: The selection and appointment of candidates is subject to positive vetting
and verification requirements as per government policy and procedures. The
Department reserves the right to fill or not to fill this position(s).
POST 31/179 : TOWN AND REGIONAL PLANNER: PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO:
REFS/023287
SALARY : R761 157 - R1 144 008 per annum, (within the OSD framework)
CENTRE : Head Office (Johannesburg)
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelors’ Degree in Urban/Town and Regional Planning or relevant
qualifications. 3 years’ post qualification professional experience required. A
Valid driver’s licence. Compulsory registration with SACPLAN as a
Professional Town & Regional Planner. Knowledge: PFMA/DoRA/Treasury
Regulations, Practice Notes, Instructions, Circulars, Government Immovable
Asset Management Act of 2007, Framework for Infrastructure Delivery and
Procurement Management, Spatial Planning and Land Use Management Act
13 of 2013, Children’s Act of 2005 and the Best practice Note of 2010, Spatial
planning systems and norms of Government and Relevant Provincial Land
Administration Legislation. Skills and Competencies: decision making, team
leadership, analytical, creativity, self-management, financial management,
customer focus and responsive, communication, computer literacy, delegation
and development of others, planning, organising and execution, conflict
management.
DUTIES : Ensure the application of town and regional planning principles in land
development: Facilitate and provide technical assistance to professional teams
on all aspects regarding town and regional planning projects. Town Planning
inputs to infrastructure and related plans: Prepare inputs to Project Planning
reports from a town planner perspective, for example Business Cases,
Infrastructure Assets Management Plans, Strategic Briefs, etc. Undertake
extensive analyses to formulate and maintain an infrastructure planning
framework for the Department. Undertake spatial analysis and modelling to
support comprehensive infrastructure planning framework. Identify suitable
sites for social development infrastructure projects and undertake final
validation on suitability. Validate all aspects of town planning requirements for
planned infrastructure projects. Represent the Department at the different
128
spatial forum to promote alignment between social planning and broader
provincial planning. Interact with the Custodian, GOGTA and related planning
forums in the province to promote seamless and integrated spatial planning.
Policies, Norms, Standard and Monitoring Reports: Make inputs to the
provincial functional norms and standards in line with nationally prescribed
functional norms and standards from a town planning perspective. Contribute
from a town planning perspective to post project, post occupancy and end of
the year evaluations as well as preparation of reports. Research and
development: Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on town and regional
planning technology to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils
on town and regional planning-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Motloutsi Tel No: (011) 355 7700
NOTE : NB: The selection and appointment of candidates is subject to positive vetting
and verification requirements as per government policy and procedures. The
Department reserves the right to fill or not to fill this position(s).
POST 31/180 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER (NURSING) REF NO: REFS/023285 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R549 192 - R723 954 per annum, (within OSD framework)
CENTRE : Father Smangaliso Mkhatshwa Child and Youth Care Centre
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with South African Nursing Council with 7 years’ experience as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Submission of valid
proof of registration with the council. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge and
understanding of Legislation and Policy mandates regulating Nursing practice,
Process and procedures. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy, Project
Management, Monitoring and Evaluation, Communication and Leadership
skills.
DUTIES : Develop and manage Nursing Plan. Monitor the implementation of a
comprehensive nursing care plan and screening of Health problems and
diseases in accordance with prescribed norms and standards. Identify health
indicators, risk factors and conduct client satisfactory surveys. Manage Nursing
Practice and Health Care in accordance with regulatory. Develop and monitor
a professional and ethical practice as well as enabling environment for ethical
practice. Manage a constructive working relationship with other stakeholders.
Promote the role of nursing with multi-disciplinary health teams, organizations
and special interest group. Manage nursing staff, leave plans and attend to
staff grievance and disciplinary matters. Manage individual performance and
development. Promote nursing ethical conduct to nursing staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Mmakola Tel No: (012) 546 0640
NOTE : NB: The selection and appointment of candidates is subject to positive vetting
and verification requirements as per government policy and procedures. The
Department reserves the right to fill or not to fill this position(s).
POST 31/181 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER (NURSING) REF NO: REFS/023293 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R549 192 - R723 954 per annum, (within OSD framework)
CENTRE : Mabutho Hlatshwayo Child and Youth Care Centre
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with South African Nursing Council with 7 years’ experience as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Submission of valid
proof of registration with the council. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge and
understanding of Legislation and Policy mandates regulating Nursing practice,
Process and procedures. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy, Project
Management, Monitoring and Evaluation, Communication and Leadership
skills.
DUTIES : Develop and manage Nursing Plan. Monitor the implementation of a
comprehensive nursing care plan and screening of Health problems and
diseases in accordance with prescribed norms and standards. Identify health
indicators, risk factors and conduct client satisfactory surveys. Manage Nursing
Practice and Health Care in accordance with regulatory. Develop and monitor
a professional and ethical practice as well as enabling environment for ethical
practice. Manage a constructive working relationship with other stakeholders.
Promote the role of nursing with multi-disciplinary health teams, organizations
and special interest group. Manage nursing staff, leave plans and attend to
129
staff grievance and disciplinary matters. Manage individual performance and
development. Promote nursing ethical conduct to nursing staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Fouche Tel No: (010) 344 1280
NOTE : NB: The selection and appointment of candidates is subject to positive vetting
and verification requirements as per government policy and procedures. The
Department reserves the right to fill or not to fill this position(s).
POST 31/182 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER (NURSING) REF NO: REFS/023284 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R549 192 - R723 954 per annum, (within OSD framework)
CENTRE : Zanele Mbeki Frail Care Centre
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with South African Nursing Council with 7 years’ experience as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Submission of valid
proof of registration with the council. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge and
understanding of Legislation and Policy mandates regulating Nursing practice,
Process and procedures. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy, Project
Management, Monitoring and Evaluation, Communication and Leadership
skills.
DUTIES : Develop and manage Nursing Plan. Monitor the implementation of a
comprehensive nursing care plan and screening of Health problems and
diseases in accordance with prescribed norms and standards. Identify health
indicators, risk factors and conduct client satisfactory surveys. Manage Nursing
Practice and Health Care in accordance with regulatory. Develop and monitor
a professional and ethical practice as well as enabling environment for ethical
practice. Manage a constructive working relationship with other stakeholders.
Promote the role of nursing with multi-disciplinary health teams, organizations
and special interest group. Manage nursing staff, leave plans and attend to
staff grievance and disciplinary matters. Manage individual performance and
development. Promote nursing ethical conduct to nursing staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Nhlapo Tel No: (011) 817 7300
NOTE : NB: The selection and appointment of candidates is subject to positive vetting
and verification requirements as per government policy and procedures. The
Department reserves the right to fill or not to fill this position(s).
POST 31/183 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE SPECIALTY (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE) REF NO:
REFS/ 023289 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R476 367 - R723 954 per annum, (within OSD framework)
CENTRE : Dr Fabian & Florence Rebeiro Treatment Centre
REQUIREMENTS : A Diploma/Degree in Nursing or equivalent qualification plus qualification in
Psychiatric Nursing that allows registration with the South African Nursing
Council with 7 years’ experience as a Professional Nurse. Submission of valid
proof of registration with the council. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge and
understanding of legislative and policy mandates regulating nursing practice,
processes and procedures applicable in the Institution. Project management,
Communication, analytical, monitoring and evaluation, supervision, people
management, inter-personal as well as leadership skills. Personal attributes:
Professionalism, responsiveness, proactive, team player, caring and
supportive.
DUTIES : Develop and manage nursing plan. Implement standard practices, criteria and
indicators for quality nursing. Participate in auditing quality of nursing and
health care. Practice nursing and health care in accordance with regulatory
framework. Maintain a professional and ethical practice and implement patient
care standards, policies and procedures. Maintenance of a constructive
working relationship with other stakeholders, health teams, organisation and
special interest groups. Manage nursing staff performance, development,
leave plans and disciplinary matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Samantha Hutchinson Tel No: (012) 734 8325
NOTE : The Department reserves the right to fill or not to fill this position(s). NB: The
selection and appointment of candidates is subject to positive vetting and
verification requirements as per government policy and procedures.
POST 31/184 : CLINCAL NURSE PRACTITIONER REF NO: REFS/023283 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum, (within OSD framework)
CENTRE : Dr Fabian Florence Rebeiro Treatment Centre
130
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e., Diploma/Degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANCA as a Professional Nurse.
Post basic qualification with a duration of at least 1 year in curative Skills in
Primary Health Care accredited with the SANC. Registration with SANC as
Professional Nurse. A minimum of 4 years appropriate / recognizable nursing
experience after registration as professional nurse with the SANC in general
nursing. Knowledge and understanding of legislative and policy mandates
regulating nursing practice, processes, and procedures. Knowledge and
understanding of nursing care practice and procedures applicable in the
institution. Skills and competencies: Project Management, Analytical, report
writing monitoring and evaluation, communication, people management skills,
interpersonal skills and leadership skills. Demonstrate an understanding of
nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices within a
primary health care environment. Demonstrate a basic understanding of HR
and financial policies and practices.
DUTIES : Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined for a primary health care facility. Promote
quality of nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and
standards as determined for a primary health care facility.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Hutchinson Tel No: (012) 734 8325, Dr Fabian Florence Rebeiro
Treatment Centre
NOTE : NB: The selection and appointment of candidates is subject to positive vetting
and verification requirements as per government policy and procedures. The
Department reserves the right to fill or not to fill this position(s).
POST 31/185 : GIS TECHNOLOGIST REF NO: REFS/023282
SALARY : R397 569 - R690 237 per annum, (within the OSD framework)
CENTRE : Head Office (Johannesburg)
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of science (NQF 6/7) Geography/Geomatics or Environmental
Sciences, A Valid driver’s Licence, 3 years GISc Technologist experience,
Registration with PLATO as a GISc Technologist.
DUTIES : To provide Technical function :Collect and capture of data from various formats
and sources, Maintain GISc unit effectiveness: Ensure easy access to spatial
information at all times, Governance: Allocate, control, monitor and report on
all resources, Financial Management: Manage the operational capital project
portfolio for the operation to ensure effective resourcing according to
organization needs: GIS Implementation: Undertake system audit, requirement
analysis and cost benefit analysis: Conduct research: Research, investigate
and advice on new GIS technologies. Competencies: Skills: Strategic
management and direction, problem solving and analysis, Team leadership,
Computer skills, Planning and organising skills. Knowledge: Programme and
project management GISc legal and operational compliance, Spatial modelling
design and analysis knowledge, Research and development, Policy
Formulation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Maabane Tel No:(011) 227 0060
NOTE : NB: The selection and appointment of candidates is subject to positive vetting
and verification requirements as per government policy and procedures. The
Department reserves the right to fill or not to fill this position(s).
131
ANNEXURE L
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
OTHER POSTS
POST 31/186 MANAGER NURSING (LEVEL 3 HOSPITAL) REF NO: KDHC 01/2025
Department: Nursing Management
SALARY : R1 155 099 - R1 320 732 per annum. Other Benefits: All-inclusive salary
package per annum (70% of basic salary and 30% benefits i.e., flexible portion
that can be structured in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : King Dinuzulu Hospital Complex
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/ Grade 12. Diploma / Degree in General Nursing that allows
registration With SANC as Professional/General Nurse Diploma in Nursing
Administration or Management Current registration with the SANC 2025 as a
Professional Nurse A minimum of 10 years appropriate or recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing At least 5 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate / recognizable experience as management level (Assistant
Manager Nursing). All other documents will be submitted by shortlisted
candidates only. Computer literate Valid driver’s license Knowledge, Skills,
Competencies and Training Required: Knowledge of nursing care processes
and procedures, nursing statutes and other relevant legal framework such as:
Nursing Act, Health Act, Skills Development Act, Public Service Regulations,
Labour Relations Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act, Patients’ Rights,
Batho Pele principles etc. Mentorship & supervisory skills Leadership,
management, planning, organizing and coordinating skills Clinical
competencies and policy formulation skills Knowledge of nursing care delivery
approaches Good verbal and written communication skills Conflict
management / sound labour management skills Mentorship and supervisory
skills Computer literacy Knowledge and understanding of Human Resource
and Financial practices.
DUTIES : Provide leadership a strategic direction in the Nursing Component. Delegate,
supervise & coordinate the provision of effective and efficient patient care
through adequate nursing care. To execute duties and functions with
proficiency, in support of aims and strategic objectives of the hospital and of
the Department of Health. To contribute towards strategic planning process of
the hospital. Represent Nursing Component in the Senior Management Team.
To demonstrate hospital’s commitment to quality nursing care and ensure
compliance with National Core Standard. Advocate and ensure the promotion
of nursing ethos and professionalism. To manage and supervise the formation
and implementation of policies, procedures for nursing service. To manage and
ensure efficient utilization of allocated human resources, financial and non-
financial resources. Deal with disciplinary and grievance matters. To ensure
provision of effective and efficient infection control services in the hospital and
affiliate primary health care services. Monitoring and evaluation of patient care
delivery in the hospital Initiate and participate in health promotion to ensure
consistent communication of relevant, accurate & comprehensive information
on health care Develop/establish and maintain constructive working
relationship between nursing staff & other stakeholders (i.e. Inter-professional,
inter-sectoral & multidisciplinary teamwork) Formulation and implementation of
nursing guidelines, practices, standards & procedure.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. Z.F Dlamini Tel No: (031) 242 6242
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be forwarded to: The Acting Deputy Director: HRM: Mr. F.G
Cele, Human Resource Department, King Dinuzulu Hospital P O Dormerton,
4015 Email to: KingdinuzuluHospital.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za. Or
KGVREGISTRY@kznhealth.gov.za or Hand delivered to: The Human
Resource Department, King Dinuzulu Hospital, 75 R.D. Naidu Roads
Sydenham, 4015 NB: Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. “Applicants are
encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs” “Applicants may also visit any one of our
Designated Online. Or Application Centres (DOACS) where our friendly staff
will assist you with applying online or receiving your hardcopy application. You
132
can find the list of Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.”
NOTE : Directions to the candidates: The following documents must be submitted: The
application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83, obtainable
from any Public Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za, and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity Document, Senior
Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as a driver’s license
where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted candidates to HR on or
before the day of the interview date. NB: Proof of current and previous work
experience endorsed and stamped by Human Resource Manager (Certificate
of service and service record) must be submitted by shortlisted candidates to
HR on or before the day of the interview date. The reference number must be
indicated in the column provided on the form Z83 e.g. reference number KDHC
05/2025. NB: Failure to comply with above instructions will disqualify
applicants. The appointment is subject to positive outcome obtained from the
NIA to the following checks: (security checks, credit records, qualification,
citizenship and previous experience verifications) Please note that due to the
large number of applications anticipated, applicants will not be acknowledged,
however, they will be advised of the outcome of their applications, in due
course. If notification of an interview is not received within three (3) months
after the closing date, candidates may regard their application as unsuccessful.
The Department will not be liable where applicants use incorrect/no reference
number(s) on their applications. NB: Due to budgetary constraints, shortlisted
candidates will not be entitled to S&T payment for attending interviews. We
welcome applications from persons with disabilities (This Department is an
equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representatively in all levels of all occupational categories in the Department).
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/187 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: OBSTETRICS & GYNAECOLOGY (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 – R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 – R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 – R2 212 680 per annum
Salary package: (all-inclusive salary packages, which consists of 70% basic
salary and 30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable
rules). Other Benefits: -Commuted Overtime (conditions applies)
CENTRE : Various Hospitals:
Queen Nandi Hospital Ref No: M08/2025 (X3 Posts)
Mahatma Gandhi Hospital Ref No: M09/2025 (X1 Post)
Ladysmith Hospital Ref No: M10/2025 (X1 Post)
Newcastle Hospital Ref No: M11/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Appropriate tertiary qualification in the Health Science (MBChB)
An appropriate qualification that allows registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Obstetrics & Gynaecology. Registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Obstetrics & Gynaecology. Current HPCSA Registration. Grade
1: No experience required. Registrars who have completed their training may
also apply on condition that their appointment will be subject to them submitting
documentary evidence of registration with the Health Professions of South
Africa. Grade 2: In addition to the requirements for a grade 1 Specialist post a
minimum of 5 years relevant experience after registration with HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in Obstetrics & Gynaecology is required for appointment as
a Grade 2 Specialist. Grade 3: In addition to the requirements for a grade 1
Specialist post a minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration
with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Obstetrics & Gynaecology is required
for appointment as a Grade 3 Specialist Knowledge, Skills, Training and
Competencies: Sound knowledge and experience in Obstetrics &
Gynaecology. Knowledge of current health and public service legislation,
regulations and policies including medical ethics, epidemiology and statistics.
Good Communication, leadership, decision-making and clinical skills. Ability to
teach junior doctors and participate in continuing professional development.
DUTIES : Provide safe, ethical and high quality of care through the development of
standards and risk assessments in clinical and customer care (patient
perspective) in the respective specialty. Provide a full package of services
including after hour services. Develop, maintain and audit the correct
133
implementation of clinical protocols and guidelines. Implement and maintain an
efficient, effective and seamless service delivery process within the Institution
and referring facilities. Plan and provide continuous medical education to
multidisciplinary team members, conduct and stimulate research. Manage and
direct performance of junior staff within the area of control. Align clinical service
delivery plans with hospital plans and priorities. Provide Specialist services and
support to the Clinical Head of Unit. Ensure Compliance with Norms and
Standards as prescribed by Office of Health Standards Compliance (OHSC).
Participate in the continued medical education programme in the institution.
Manage EPMDS of junior staff. Participate in the extended management
activities. Develop, Implement and monitor quality improvement programmes.
Develop and participate in the outreach programme. Ensure a functional
referral system. Actively participate in the academic programme run by the
Department of Health for the postgraduate training of Registrars. Clinical
teaching of undergraduate and postgraduate students. Engage in academic
research culminating in the publication of papers in scientific journals or the
presentation of the results of such research at scientific congresses. The
incumbent should have, comprehensive knowledge of speciality Discipline.
Competence in the clinical evaluation of patients, Interpretation of special
investigations within the Discipline. Render efficient and cost-effective services
to patients managed by the institution. Ensure Clinical Governance within the
Discipline. Deliver an effective and efficient administration of all resources
allocated to the Discipline. Assist the Head of Clinical Unit (HCU) to ensure an
optimal delivery of Services within the Discipline. Assist HCU in the
development of management protocols/policies for Department – Discipline.
Assist with Quality Improvement imperatives including Clinical Audits
(morbidity and mortality reporting and reviewing, clinical documentation audits
etc.) and continuous professional development activities. Maintain satisfactory
clinical professional and ethical standards in the department. Engage in
research and supervise registrar research. Partake in outreach programmes of
the DOH. After hours participation in call roasters.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs RT Dube Tel No: (033) 940 2499
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. Applicants are encouraged
to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za.
Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres
(DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or
receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online
Application Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.” NB:
Applications for these posts can be dropped off at your nearest Health Facility.
All Applications Should Be Forwarded To: The Chief Director: Human Resource
Management Services, KZN Department of Health, Private Bag X9051,
Pietermaritzburg 3200 or Hand delivered to: 330 Langalibalele Street Natalia
Building, Registry, Minus 1:1 North Tower (Attention: Mrs N Radebe)
NOTE : We strive to create an environment that brings the power of diversity to life and
as such, this Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer,
whose aim is to promote inclusiveness in all occupational levels in the
Department”. Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed
Application for Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed,
initialed and dated. Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be
considered. All required information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to
complete or disclose all information will automatically disqualify the applicant.
The Z83 should be accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed
experience). Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of the interview following communication from Human
Resources. The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from
the State Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance
(vetting), criminal clearance, credit records, citizenship), verification of
Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from
Employers and verification from the Company Intellectual Property
Commission (CIPC). Applicants with foreign qualifications are requested to
have their qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such
evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that you submit your application before
the closing date as no late applications will be considered. If you apply for more
134
than 1 post, submit separate applications for each post that you apply for
quoting the relevant reference number. Should you not be contacted within 3
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/188 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: PAEDIATRICS REF NO: M12/2025 (X2 POSTS)
Complex (NB: The incumbent for these posts will be part of the complex which
includes both hospitals working together)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 – R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 – R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 – R2 212 680 per annum
Salary package: (all-inclusive salary packages, which consists of 70% basic
salary and 30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable
rules). Other Benefits: - Commuted Overtime (conditions applies)
CENTRE : Dr Pixley Ka Isaka Seme Hospital/ Mahatma Ghandi
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Appropriate tertiary qualification in the Health Science (MBChB)
An appropriate qualification that allows registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Paediatrics. Registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Paediatrics. Current HPCSA Registration. Grade 1: No experience required.
Registrars who have completed their training may also apply on condition that
their appointment will be subject to them submitting documentary evidence of
registration with the Health Professions of South Africa. Grade 2: In addition to
the requirements for a grade 1 Specialist post a minimum of 5 years relevant
experience after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Paediatrics
is required for appointment as a Grade 2 Specialist. Grade 3: In addition to the
requirements for a grade 1 Specialist post a minimum of 10 years relevant
experience after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Paediatrics
is required for appointment as a Grade 3 Specialist Knowledge, Skills, Training
and Competencies: Sound knowledge and experience in Paediatrics.
Knowledge of current health and public service legislation, regulations and
policies including medical ethics, epidemiology and statistics. Good
Communication, leadership, decision-making and clinical skills. Ability to teach
junior doctors and participate in continuing professional development.
DUTIES : Provide safe, ethical and high quality of care through the development of
standards and risk assessments in clinical and customer care (patient
perspective) in the respective specialty. Provide a full package of services
including after hour services. Develop, maintain and audit the correct
implementation of clinical protocols and guidelines. Implement and maintain an
efficient, effective and seamless service delivery process within the Institution
and referring facilities. Plan and provide continuous medical education to
multidisciplinary team members, conduct and stimulate research. Manage and
direct performance of junior staff within the area of control. Align clinical service
delivery plans with hospital plans and priorities. Provide Specialist services and
support to the Clinical Head of Unit. Ensure Compliance with Norms and
Standards as prescribed by Office of Health Standards Compliance (OHSC).
Participate in the continued medical education programme in the institution.
Manage EPMDS of junior staff. Participate in the extended management
activities. Develop, Implement and monitor quality improvement programmes.
Develop and participate in the outreach programme. Ensure a functional
referral system. Actively participate in the academic programme run by the
Department of Health for the postgraduate training of Registrars. Clinical
teaching of undergraduate and postgraduate students. Engage in academic
research culminating in the publication of papers in scientific journals or the
presentation of the results of such research at scientific congresses. The
incumbent should have, comprehensive knowledge of speciality Discipline.
Competence in the clinical evaluation of patients, Interpretation of special
investigations within the Discipline. Render efficient and cost-effective services
to patients managed by the institution. Ensure Clinical Governance within the
Discipline. Deliver an effective and efficient administration of all resources
allocated to the Discipline. Assist the Head of Clinical Unit (HCU) to ensure an
optimal delivery of Services within the Discipline. Assist HCU in the
development of management protocols/policies for Department – Discipline.
Assist with Quality Improvement imperatives including Clinical Audits
135
(morbidity and mortality reporting and reviewing, clinical documentation audits
etc.) and continuous professional development activities. Maintain satisfactory
clinical professional and ethical standards in the department. Engage in
research and supervise registrar research. Partake in outreach programmes of
the DOH. After hours participation in call roasters.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs RT Dube Tel No: (033) 940 2499
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. Applicants are encouraged
to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za.
Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres
(DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or
receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online
Application Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.” NB:
Applications for these posts can be dropped-off at your nearest Health Facility.
All applications should be forwarded to: The Chief Director: Human Resource
Management Services, KZN Department of Health Private Bag X9051,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200 OR Hand delivered to: 330 Langalibalele Street Natalia
Building, Registry, Minus 1:1 North Tower (Attention: Mrs N Radebe)
NOTE : We strive to create an environment that brings the power of diversity to life and
as such, this Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer,
whose aim is to promote inclusiveness in all occupational levels in the
Department”. Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed
Application for Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed,
initialed and dated. Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be
considered. All required information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to
complete or disclose all information will automatically disqualify the applicant.
The Z83 should be accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed
experience). Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of the interview following communication from Human
Resources. The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from
the State Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance
(vetting), criminal clearance, credit records, citizenship), verification of
Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from
Employers and verification from the Company Intellectual Property
Commission (CIPC). Applicants with foreign qualifications are requested to
have their qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such
evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that you submit your application before
the closing date as no late applications will be considered. If you apply for more
than 1 post, submit separate applications for each post that you apply for
quoting the relevant reference number. Should you not be contacted within 3
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/189 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GENERAL SURGERY (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 – R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 – R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 – R2 212 680 per annum
Salary package: (all-inclusive salary packages, which consists of 70% basic
salary and 30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable
rules). Other Benefits: -Commuted Overtime (conditions applies)
CENTRE : Various Hospitals:
Portshepstone Hospital Ref No: M13/2025 (X1 Post)
General Justice Gizenga Mpanza Hospital Ref No: M14/2025 (X1 Post)
Addington Hospital Ref No: M15/2025 (X1 Post)
Dr Pixley Ka Isaka Seme Hospital Ref No: M16/2025 (X1 Post)
Ladysmith Hospital Ref No: M17/2025 (X1 Post)
Greys Hospital Ref No: M18/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Appropriate tertiary qualification in the Health Science (MBChB)
An appropriate qualification that allows registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in General Surgery. Registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist
136
in General Surgery. Current HPCSA Registration. Grade 1: No experience
required. Registrars who have completed their training may also apply on
condition that their appointment will be subject to them submitting documentary
evidence of registration with the Health Professions of South Africa. Grade 2:
In addition to the requirements for a grade 1 Specialist post a minimum of 5
years relevant experience after registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in General Surgery is required for appointment as a Grade 2
Specialist. Grade 3: In addition to the requirements for a grade 1 Specialist
post a minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with HPCSA
as a Medical Specialist in General Surgery is required for appointment as a
Grade 3 Specialist Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies: Sound
knowledge and experience in General Surgery. Knowledge of current health
and public service legislation, regulations and policies including medical ethics,
epidemiology and statistics. Good Communication, leadership, decision-
making and clinical skills. Ability to teach junior doctors and participate in
continuing professional development.
DUITES : Provide safe, ethical, and high quality of care through the development of
standards and risk assessments in clinical and customer care (patient
perspective) in the respective specialty. Provide a full package of services
including after hour services. Develop, maintain, and audit the correct
implementation of clinical protocols and guidelines. Implement and maintain an
efficient, effective, and seamless service delivery process within the Institution
and referring facilities. Plan and provide continuous medical education to
multidisciplinary team members, conduct, and stimulate research. Manage and
direct performance of junior staff within the area of control. Align clinical service
delivery plans with hospital plans and priorities. Provide Specialist services and
support to the Clinical Head of Unit. Ensure Compliance with Norms and
Standards as prescribed by Office of Health Standards Compliance (OHSC).
Participate in the continued medical education programme in the institution.
Manage EPMDS of junior staff. Participate in the extended management
activities. Develop, Implement and monitor quality improvement programmes.
Develop and participate in the outreach programme. Ensure a functional
referral system. Actively participate in the academic programme run by the
Department of Health for the postgraduate training of Registrars. Clinical
teaching of undergraduate and postgraduate students. Engage in academic
research culminating in the publication of papers in scientific journals or the
presentation of the results of such research at scientific congresses. The
incumbent should have, comprehensive knowledge of speciality Discipline.
Competence in the clinical evaluation of patients, Interpretation of special
investigations within the Discipline. Render efficient and cost-effective services
to patients managed by the institution. Ensure Clinical Governance within the
Discipline. Deliver an effective and efficient administration of all resources
allocated to the Discipline. Assist the Head of Clinical Unit (HCU) to ensure an
optimal delivery of Services within the Discipline. Assist HCU in the
development of management protocols/policies for Department – Discipline.
Assist with Quality Improvement imperatives including Clinical Audits
(morbidity and mortality reporting and reviewing, clinical documentation audits
etc.) and continuous professional development activities. Maintain satisfactory
clinical professional and ethical standards in the department. Engage in
research and supervise registrar research. Partake in outreach programmes of
the DOH. After hours participation in call roasters.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs RT Dube Tel No: (033) 940 2499
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. Applicants are encouraged
to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za.
Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres
(DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or
receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online
Application Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.”
NB://Applications for these posts can be dropped off at your nearest Health
Facility. All applications should be forwarded to: The Chief Director: Human
Resource Management Services, KZN Department of Health, Private Bag
X9051, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or Hand delivered to: 330 Langalibalele Street
Natalia Building, Registry, Minus 1:1 North Tower (Attention: Mrs N Radebe)
137
NOTE : We strive to create an environment that brings the power of diversity to life and
as such, this Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer,
whose aim is to promote inclusiveness in all occupational levels in the
Department”. Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed
Application for Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed,
initialed and dated. Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be
considered. All required information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to
complete or disclose all information will automatically disqualify the applicant.
The Z83 should be accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed
experience). Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of the interview following communication from Human
Resources. The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from
the State Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance
(vetting), criminal clearance, credit records, citizenship), verification of
Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from
Employers and verification from the Company Intellectual Property
Commission (CIPC). Applicants with foreign qualifications are requested to
have their qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such
evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that you submit your application before
the closing date as no late applications will be considered. If you apply for more
than 1 post, submit separate applications for each post that you apply for
quoting the relevant reference number. Should you not be contacted within 3
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/190 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: ORTHOPAEDICS (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 – R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 – R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 – R2 212 680 per annum
Salary package: (all-inclusive salary packages, which consists of 70% basic
salary and 30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable
rules). Other Benefits: -Commuted Overtime (conditions applies)
CENTRE : Various Hospitals:
Portshepstone Hospital Ref No: M19/2025 (X2 Posts)
Harry Gwala Regonal Hospital Ref No. M20/2025
King Dinuzulu Hospital Ref No: M21/2025 (X1 Post)
Prince Mshiyeni Ref No. M22/2025 (X1 Post)
Ladysmith Hospital Ref No. M23/2025 (X1 Post)
Greys Hospital Ref No. M24/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Appropriate tertiary qualification in the Health Science (MBChB)
An appropriate qualification that allows registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Orthopaedics. Registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Orthopaedics. Current HPCSA Registration. Grade 1: No experience required.
Registrars who have completed their training may also apply on condition that
their appointment will be subject to them submitting documentary evidence of
registration with the Health Professions of South Africa. Grade 2: In addition to
the requirements for a grade 1 Specialist post a minimum of 5 years relevant
experience after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Orthopaedics is required for appointment as a Grade 2 Specialist. Grade 3: In
addition to the requirements for a grade 1 Specialist post a minimum of 10
years relevant experience after registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Orthopaedics is required for appointment as a Grade 3 Specialist
Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies: Sound knowledge and
experience in Orthopaedics. Knowledge of current health and public service
legislation, regulations and policies including medical ethics, epidemiology and
statistics. Good Communication, leadership, decision-making and clinical
skills. Ability to teach junior doctors and participate in continuing professional
development.
DUTIES : Provide safe, ethical and high quality of care through the development of
standards and risk assessments in clinical and customer care (patient
perspective) in the respective specialty. Provide a full package of services
including after hour services. Develop, maintain and audit the correct
138
implementation of clinical protocols and guidelines. Implement and maintain an
efficient, effective and seamless service delivery process within the Institution
and referring facilities. Plan and provide continuous medical education to
multidisciplinary team members, conduct and stimulate research. Manage and
direct performance of junior staff within the area of control. Align clinical service
delivery plans with hospital plans and priorities. Provide Specialist services and
support to the Clinical Head of Unit. Ensure Compliance with Norms and
Standards as prescribed by Office of Health Standards Compliance (OHSC).
Participate in the continued medical education programme in the institution.
Manage EPMDS of junior staff. Participate in the extended management
activities. Develop, Implement and monitor quality improvement programmes.
Develop and participate in the outreach programme. Ensure a functional
referral system. Actively participate in the academic programme run by the
Department of Health for the postgraduate training of Registrars. Clinical
teaching of undergraduate and postgraduate students. Engage in academic
research culminating in the publication of papers in scientific journals or the
presentation of the results of such research at scientific congresses. The
incumbent should have, comprehensive knowledge of speciality Discipline.
Competence in the clinical evaluation of patients, Interpretation of special
investigations within the Discipline. Render efficient and cost-effective services
to patients managed by the institution. Ensure Clinical Governance within the
Discipline. Deliver an effective and efficient administration of all resources
allocated to the Discipline. Assist the Head of Clinical Unit (HCU) to ensure an
optimal delivery of Services within the Discipline. Assist HCU in the
development of management protocols/policies for Department – Discipline.
Assist with Quality Improvement imperatives including Clinical Audits
(morbidity and mortality reporting and reviewing, clinical documentation audits
etc.) and continuous professional development activities. Maintain satisfactory
clinical professional and ethical standards in the department. Engage in
research and supervise registrar research. Partake in outreach programmes of
the DOH. After hours participation in call roasters.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs RT Dube Tel No: (033) 940 2499
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. Applicants are encouraged
to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za.
Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres
(DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or
receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online
Application Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.” NB:
Applications for these posts can be dropped-off at your nearest Health Facility.
All applications should be forwarded to: The Chief Director: Human Resource
Management Services, KZN Department of Health, Private Bag X9051,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200 OR Hand delivered to: 330 Langalibalele Street Natalia
Building, Registry, Minus 1:1 North Tower (Attention: Mrs N Radebe)
NOTE : We strive to create an environment that brings the power of diversity to life and
as such, this Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer,
whose aim is to promote inclusiveness in all occupational levels in the
Department”. Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed
Application for Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed,
initialed and dated. Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be
considered. All required information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to
complete or disclose all information will automatically disqualify the applicant.
The Z83 should be accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed
experience). Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of the interview following communication from Human
Resources. The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from
the State Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance
(vetting), criminal clearance, credit records, citizenship), verification of
Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from
Employers and verification from the Company Intellectual Property
Commission (CIPC). Applicants with foreign qualifications are requested to
have their qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such
evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that you submit your application before
the closing date as no late applications will be considered. If you apply for more
139
than 1 post, submit separate applications for each post that you apply for
quoting the relevant reference number. Should you not be contacted within 3
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/191 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: ANAETHETICS (X12 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 – R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 – R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 – R2 212 680 per annum
Salary package: (all-inclusive salary packages, which consists of 70% basic
salary and 30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable
rules). Other Benefits: -Commuted Overtime (conditions applies)
CENTRE : Various Hospitals:
Inkosi Albert Luthuli Hospital Ref No: M23/2025 (X5 Posts
Victoria Mxenge Tertiary Hospital Ref No: M24/2025 (X1 Post)
Queen Nandi Regional Hospital Ref No: M25/2025 (X1 Post)
Prince Mshiyeni Hospital Ref No: M26/2025 (X1 Post)
RK Khan Hospital Ref No: M27/2025 (X1 Post)
Harry Gwala Hospital: Ref No: M28/2025 (X1 Post)
Newcastle Hospital Ref No: M29/2025 (X1 Post)
Mahatma Gandhi Hospital Ref No: M30/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENT : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Appropriate tertiary qualification in the Health Science (MBChB)
An appropriate qualification that allows registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Anaesthetics. Registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Anaesthetics. Current HPCSA Registration. Grade 1: No experience required.
Registrars who have completed their training may also apply on condition that
their appointment will be subject to them submitting documentary evidence of
registration with the Health Professions of South Africa. Grade 2: In addition to
the requirements for a grade 1 Specialist post a minimum of 5 years relevant
experience after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Anaesthetics is required for appointment as a Grade 2 Specialist. Grade 3: In
addition to the requirements for a grade 1 Specialist post a minimum of 10
years relevant experience after registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Anaesthetics is required for appointment as a Grade 3 Specialist
Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies: Sound knowledge and
experience in Anaesthetics. Knowledge of current health and public service
legislation, regulations and policies including medical ethics, epidemiology, and
statistics. Good Communication, leadership, decision-making and clinical
skills. Ability to teach junior doctors and participate in continuing professional
development.
DUTIES : Provide safe, ethical and high quality of care through the development of
standards and risk assessments in clinical and customer care (patient
perspective) in the respective specialty. Provide a full package of services
including after hour services. Develop, maintain and audit the correct
implementation of clinical protocols and guidelines. Implement and maintain an
efficient, effective and seamless service delivery process within the Institution
and referring facilities. Plan and provide continuous medical education to
multidisciplinary team members, conduct, and stimulate research. Manage and
direct performance of junior staff within the area of control. Align clinical service
delivery plans with hospital plans and priorities. Provide Specialist services and
support to the Clinical Head of Unit. Ensure Compliance with Norms and
Standards as prescribed by Office of Health Standards Compliance (OHSC).
Participate in the continued medical education programme in the institution.
Manage EPMDS of junior staff. Participate in the extended management
activities. Develop, Implement and monitor quality improvement programmes.
Develop and participate in the outreach programme. Ensure a functional
referral system. Actively participate in the academic programme run by the
Department of Health for the postgraduate training of Registrars. Clinical
teaching of undergraduate and postgraduate students. Engage in academic
research culminating in the publication of papers in scientific journals or the
presentation of the results of such research at scientific congresses. The
incumbent should have, comprehensive knowledge of speciality Discipline.
Competence in the clinical evaluation of patients, Interpretation of special
140
investigations within the Discipline. Render efficient and cost-effective services
to patients managed by the institution. Ensure Clinical Governance within the
Discipline. Deliver an effective and efficient administration of all resources
allocated to the Discipline. Assist the Head of Clinical Unit (HCU) to ensure an
optimal delivery of Services within the Discipline. Assist HCU in the
development of management protocols/policies for Department – Discipline.
Assist with Quality Improvement imperatives including Clinical Audits
(morbidity and mortality reporting and reviewing, clinical documentation audits
etc.) and continuous professional development activities. Maintain satisfactory
clinical professional and ethical standards in the department. Engage in
research and supervise registrar research. Partake in outreach programmes of
the DOH. After hours participation in call roasters.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs RT Dube Tel No: (033) 940 2499
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. Applicants are encouraged
to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za.
Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres
(DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or
receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online
Application Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.” NB:
Applications for these posts can be dropped-off at your nearest Health Facility.
All Applications Should Be Forwarded To: The Chief Director: Human Resource
Management Services, KZN Department of Health, Private Bag X9051,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200 OR Hand delivered to: 330 Langalibalele Street Natalia
Building, Registry, Minus 1:1 North Tower (Attention: Mrs N Radebe)
NOTE : We strive to create an environment that brings the power of diversity to life and
as such, this Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer,
whose aim is to promote inclusiveness in all occupational levels in the
Department”. Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed
Application for Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed,
initialed and dated. Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be
considered. All required information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to
complete or disclose all information will automatically disqualify the applicant.
The Z83 should be accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed
experience). Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of the interview following communication from Human
Resources. The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from
the State Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance
(vetting), criminal clearance, credit records, citizenship), verification of
Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from
Employers and verification from the Company Intellectual Property
Commission (CIPC). Applicants with foreign qualifications are requested to
have their qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such
evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that you submit your application before
the closing date as no late applications will be considered. If you apply for more
than 1 post, submit separate applications for each post that you apply for
quoting the relevant reference number. Should you not be contacted within 3
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/192 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: ANAETHETICS (X12 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 – R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 – R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 – R2 212 680 per annum
Salary package: (all-inclusive salary packages, which consists of 70% basic
salary and 30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable
rules). Other Benefits: -Commuted Overtime (conditions applies)
CENTRE : Various Hospitals:
Inkosi Albert Luthuli Hospital Ref No: M23/2025 (X5 Posts)
Victoria Mxenge Tertiary Hospital Ref No: M24/2025 (X1 Post)
Queen Nandi Regional Hospital Ref No: M25/2025 (X1 Post)
Prince Mshiyeni Hospital Ref No: M26/2025 (X1 Post)
141
RK Khan Hospital Ref No: M27/2025 (X1 Post)
Harry Gwala Hospital Ref No: M28/2025 (X1 Post)
Newcastle Hospital Ref No: M29/2025 (X1 Post)
Mahatma Gandhi Hospital Ref No: M30/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Appropriate tertiary qualification in the Health Science (MBChB)
An appropriate qualification that allows registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Anaesthetics. Registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Anaesthetics. Current HPCSA Registration. Grade 1: No experience required.
Registrars who have completed their training may also apply on condition that
their appointment will be subject to them submitting documentary evidence of
registration with the Health Professions of South Africa. Grade 2: In addition to
the requirements for a grade 1 Specialist post a minimum of 5 years relevant
experience after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Anaesthetics is required for appointment as a Grade 2 Specialist. Grade 3: In
addition to the requirements for a grade 1 Specialist post a minimum of 10
years relevant experience after registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Anaesthetics is required for appointment as a Grade 3 Specialist
Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies: Sound knowledge and
experience in Anaesthetics. Knowledge of current health and public service
legislation, regulations and policies including medical ethics, epidemiology, and
statistics. Good Communication, leadership, decision-making and clinical
skills. Ability to teach junior doctors and participate in continuing professional
development.
DUTIES : Provide safe, ethical and high quality of care through the development of
standards and risk assessments in clinical and customer care (patient
perspective) in the respective specialty. Provide a full package of services
including after hour services. Develop, maintain and audit the correct
implementation of clinical protocols and guidelines. Implement and maintain an
efficient, effective and seamless service delivery process within the Institution
and referring facilities. Plan and provide continuous medical education to
multidisciplinary team members, conduct, and stimulate research. Manage and
direct performance of junior staff within the area of control. Align clinical service
delivery plans with hospital plans and priorities. Provide Specialist services and
support to the Clinical Head of Unit. Ensure Compliance with Norms and
Standards as prescribed by Office of Health Standards Compliance (OHSC).
Participate in the continued medical education programme in the institution.
Manage EPMDS of junior staff. Participate in the extended management
activities. Develop, Implement and monitor quality improvement programmes.
Develop and participate in the outreach programme. Ensure a functional
referral system. Actively participate in the academic programme run by the
Department of Health for the postgraduate training of Registrars. Clinical
teaching of undergraduate and postgraduate students. Engage in academic
research culminating in the publication of papers in scientific journals or the
presentation of the results of such research at scientific congresses. The
incumbent should have, comprehensive knowledge of speciality Discipline.
Competence in the clinical evaluation of patients, Interpretation of special
investigations within the Discipline. Render efficient and cost-effective services
to patients managed by the institution. Ensure Clinical Governance within the
Discipline. Deliver an effective and efficient administration of all resources
allocated to the Discipline. Assist the Head of Clinical Unit (HCU) to ensure an
optimal delivery of Services within the Discipline. Assist HCU in the
development of management protocols/policies for Department – Discipline.
Assist with Quality Improvement imperatives including Clinical Audits
(morbidity and mortality reporting and reviewing, clinical documentation audits
etc.) and continuous professional development activities. Maintain satisfactory
clinical professional and ethical standards in the department. Engage in
research and supervise registrar research. Partake in outreach programmes of
the DOH. After hours participation in call roasters.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs RT Dube Tel No: (033) 940 2499
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. Applicants are encouraged
to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za.
Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres
142
(DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or
receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online
Application Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.” NB:
Applications for these posts can be dropped-off at your nearest Health Facility.
All Applications Should Be Forwarded To: The Chief Director: Human Resource
Management Services, KZN Department of Health, Private Bag X9051,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200 OR Hand delivered to: 330 Langalibalele Street Natalia
Building, Registry, Minus 1:1 North Tower (Attention: Mrs N Radebe)
NOTE : We strive to create an environment that brings the power of diversity to life and
as such, this Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer,
whose aim is to promote inclusiveness in all occupational levels in the
Department”. Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed
Application for Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed,
initialed and dated. Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be
considered. All required information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to
complete or disclose all information will automatically disqualify the applicant.
The Z83 should be accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed
experience). Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of the interview following communication from Human
Resources. The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from
the State Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance
(vetting), criminal clearance, credit records, citizenship), verification of
Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from
Employers and verification from the Company Intellectual Property
Commission (CIPC). Applicants with foreign qualifications are requested to
have their qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such
evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that you submit your application before
the closing date as no late applications will be considered. If you apply for more
than 1 post, submit separate applications for each post that you apply for
quoting the relevant reference number. Should you not be contacted within 3
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/193 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: RADIOLOGY (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 – R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 – R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 – R2 212 680 per annum
Salary package: (all-inclusive salary packages, which consists of 70% basic
salary and 30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable
rules). Other Benefits: -Commuted Overtime (conditions applies)
CENTRE : Various Hospitals:
Portshepstone Hospital Ref No: M31/2025 (X1 Post)
RK Khan Hospital Ref No: M32/2025 (X1 Post)
Madadeni Hospital Ref No: M33/2025 (X1 Post)
Addington Hospital Ref No: M34/2025 (X1 Post)
General Justice Gizenga Mpanza Ref No: M35/2025 (X1 Post)
Dr Pixley Ka Isaka Seme Hospital Ref No: M36/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Appropriate tertiary qualification in the Health Science (MBChB)
An appropriate qualification that allows registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Radiology. Registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Radiology. Current HPCSA Registration Grade 1: No experience required.
Registrars who have completed their training may also apply on condition that
their appointment will be subject to them submitting documentary evidence of
registration with the Health Professions of South Africa. Grade 2: In addition to
the requirements for a grade 1 Specialist post a minimum of 5 years relevant
experience after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Radiology
is required for appointment as a Grade 2 Specialist. Grade 3: In addition to the
requirements for a grade 1 Specialist post a minimum of 10 years relevant
experience after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Radiology
is required for appointment as a Grade 3 Specialist Knowledge, Skills, Training
and Competencies: Sound knowledge and experience in Radiology.
Knowledge of current health and public service legislation, regulations and
143
policies including medical ethics, epidemiology, and statistics. Good
Communication, leadership, decision-making and clinical skills. Ability to teach
junior doctors and participate in continuing professional development.
DUTIES : Provide safe, ethical and high quality of care through the development of
standards and risk assessments in clinical and customer care (patient
perspective) in the respective specialty. Provide a full package of services
including after hour services. Develop, maintain and audit the correct
implementation of clinical protocols and guidelines. Implement and maintain an
efficient, effective and seamless service delivery process within the Institution
and referring facilities. Plan and provide continuous medical education to
multidisciplinary team members, conduct, and stimulate research. Manage and
direct performance of junior staff within the area of control. Align clinical service
delivery plans with hospital plans and priorities. Provide Specialist services and
support to the Clinical Head of Unit. Ensure Compliance with Norms and
Standards as prescribed by Office of Health Standards Compliance (OHSC).
Participate in the continued medical education programme in the institution.
Manage EPMDS of junior staff. Participate in the extended management
activities. Develop, Implement and monitor quality improvement programmes.
Develop and participate in the outreach programme. Ensure a functional
referral system. Actively participate in the academic programme run by the
Department of Health for the postgraduate training of Registrars. Clinical
teaching of undergraduate and postgraduate students. Engage in academic
research culminating in the publication of papers in scientific journals or the
presentation of the results of such research at scientific congresses. The
incumbent should have, comprehensive knowledge of speciality Discipline.
Competence in the clinical evaluation of patients, Interpretation of special
investigations within the Discipline. Render efficient and cost-effective services
to patients managed by the institution. Ensure Clinical Governance within the
Discipline. Deliver an effective and efficient administration of all resources
allocated to the Discipline. Assist the Head of Clinical Unit (HCU) to ensure an
optimal delivery of Services within the Discipline. Assist HCU in the
development of management protocols/policies for Department – Discipline.
Assist with Quality Improvement imperatives including Clinical Audits
(morbidity and mortality reporting and reviewing, clinical documentation audits
etc.) and continuous professional development activities. Maintain satisfactory
clinical professional and ethical standards in the department. Engage in
research and supervise registrar research. Partake in outreach programmes of
the DOH. After hours participation in call roasters.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs RT Dube Tel No: (033) 940 2499
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. Applicants are encouraged
to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za.
Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres
(DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or
receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online
Application Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.” NB:
Applications for these posts can be dropped-off at your nearest Health Facility.
All Applications Should Be Forwarded To: The Chief Director: Human Resource
Management Services, KZN Department of Health Private Bag X9051
Pietermaritzburg 3200 OR Hand delivered to: 330 Langalibalele Street Natalia
Building, Registry, Minus 1:1 North Tower (Attention: Mrs N Radebe)
NOTE : We strive to create an environment that brings the power of diversity to life and
as such, this Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer,
whose aim is to promote inclusiveness in all occupational levels in the
Department”. Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed
Application for Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed,
initialed and dated. Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be
considered. All required information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to
complete or disclose all information will automatically disqualify the applicant.
The Z83 should be accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed
experience). Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of the interview following communication from Human
Resources. The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from
the State Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance
144
(vetting), criminal clearance, credit records, citizenship), verification of
Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from
Employers and verification from the Company Intellectual Property
Commission (CIPC). Applicants with foreign qualifications are requested to
have their qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such
evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that you submit your application before
the closing date as no late applications will be considered. If you apply for more
than 1 post, submit separate applications for each post that you apply for
quoting the relevant reference number. Should you not be contacted within 3
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/194 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: EMERGENCY MEDICINE (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 – R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 – R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 – R2 212 680 per annum
Salary package: (All-inclusive salary packages, which consists of 70% basic
salary and 30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable
rules). Other Benefits: -Commuted Overtime (conditions applies)
CENTRE : Various Hospitals:
Addington Hospital Ref No: M37/2025 (X1 Post)
Dr Pixley Ka Isaka Seme Hospital Ref No: M38/2025 (X1 Post)
Harry Gwala Regional Hospital Ref No: M39/2025 (X1 Post)
Victoria Mxenge Tertiary Hospital Ref No: M40/2025
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Appropriate tertiary qualification in the Health Science (MBChB)
An appropriate qualification that allows registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Emergency Medicine. Registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Emergency Medicine. Current HPCSA Registration Grade 1: No
experience required. Registrars who have completed their training may also
apply on condition that their appointment will be subject to them submitting
documentary evidence of registration with the Health Professions of South
Africa. Grade 2: In addition to the requirements for a grade 1 Specialist post a
minimum of 5 years relevant experience after registration with HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in Emergency Medicine is required for appointment as a
Grade 2 Specialist Grade 3: In addition to the requirements for a grade 1
Specialist post a minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration
with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Emergency Medicine is required for
appointment as a Grade 3 Specialist Knowledge, Skills, Training and
Competencies: Sound knowledge and experience in Radiology. Knowledge of
current health and public service legislation, regulations and policies including
medical ethics, epidemiology, and statistics. Good Communication, leadership,
decision-making and clinical skills. Ability to teach junior doctors and participate
in continuing professional development.
DUTIES : Provide safe, ethical and high quality of care through the development of
standards and risk assessments in clinical and customer care (patient
perspective) in the respective specialty. Provide a full package of services
including after hour services. Develop, maintain and audit the correct
implementation of clinical protocols and guidelines. Implement and maintain an
efficient, effective and seamless service delivery process within the Institution
and referring facilities. Plan and provide continuous medical education to
multidisciplinary team members, conduct, and stimulate research. Manage and
direct performance of junior staff within the area of control. Align clinical service
delivery plans with hospital plans and priorities. Provide Specialist services and
support to the Clinical Head of Unit. Ensure Compliance with Norms and
Standards as prescribed by Office of Health Standards Compliance (OHSC).
Participate in the continued medical education programme in the institution.
Manage EPMDS of junior staff. Participate in the extended management
activities. Develop, Implement and monitor quality improvement programmes.
Develop and participate in the outreach programme. Ensure a functional
referral system. Actively participate in the academic programme run by the
Department of Health for the postgraduate training of Registrars. Clinical
teaching of undergraduate and postgraduate students. Engage in academic
research culminating in the publication of papers in scientific journals or the
145
presentation of the results of such research at scientific congresses. The
incumbent should have, comprehensive knowledge of speciality Discipline.
Competence in the clinical evaluation of patients, Interpretation of special
investigations within the Discipline. Render efficient and cost-effective services
to patients managed by the institution. Ensure Clinical Governance within the
Discipline. Deliver an effective and efficient administration of all resources
allocated to the Discipline. Assist the Head of Clinical Unit (HCU) to ensure an
optimal delivery of Services within the Discipline. Assist HCU in the
development of management protocols/policies for Department – Discipline.
Assist with Quality Improvement imperatives including Clinical Audits
(morbidity and mortality reporting and reviewing, clinical documentation audits
etc.) and continuous professional development activities. Maintain satisfactory
clinical professional and ethical standards in the department. Engage in
research and supervise registrar research. Partake in outreach programmes of
the DOH. After hours participation in call roasters.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs RT Dube Tel No: (033) 940 2499
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. Applicants are encouraged
to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za.
Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres
(DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or
receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online
Application Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.”
NB://Applications for these posts can be dropped-off at your nearest Health
Facility. All applications should be forwarded to: The Chief Director: Human
Resource Management Services, KZN Department of Health, Private Bag
X9051, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 OR Hand delivered to: 330 Langalibalele Street
Natalia Building, Registry, Minus 1:1 North Tower (Attention: Mrs N Radebe)
NOTE : We strive to create an environment that brings the power of diversity to life and
as such, this Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer,
whose aim is to promote inclusiveness in all occupational levels in the
Department”. Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed
Application for Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed,
initialed and dated. Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be
considered. All required information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to
complete or disclose all information will automatically disqualify the applicant.
The Z83 should be accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed
experience). Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of the interview following communication from Human
Resources. The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from
the State Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance
(vetting), criminal clearance, credit records, citizenship), verification of
Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from
Employers and verification from the Company Intellectual Property
Commission (CIPC). Applicants with foreign qualifications are requested to
have their qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such
evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that you submit your application before
the closing date as no late applications will be considered. If you apply for more
than 1 post, submit separate applications for each post that you apply for
quoting the relevant reference number. Should you not be contacted within 3
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/195 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: PSYCHIATRY (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 – R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 – R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 – R2 212 680 per annum
Salary package: (all-inclusive salary packages, which consists of 70% basic
salary and 30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable
rules). Other Benefits: -Commuted Overtime (conditions applies)
CENTRE : Various Hospitals:
Harry Gwala Regional Hospital Ref No: M41/2025 (X1 Post)
146
King Dinuzulu Hospital Ref No: M42/2025 (X1 Post)
Townhill Psychiatric Hospital Ref No: M43/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Appropriate tertiary qualification in the Health Science (MBChB)
An appropriate qualification that allows registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Psychiatry. Registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Psychiatry. Current HPCSA Registration Grade 1: No experience required.
Registrars who have completed their training may also apply on condition that
their appointment will be subject to them submitting documentary evidence of
registration with the Health Professions of South Africa. Grade 2: In addition to
the requirements for a grade 1 Specialist post a minimum of 5 years relevant
experience after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry
is required for appointment as a Grade 2 Specialist. Grade 3: In addition to the
requirements for a grade 1 Specialist post a minimum of 10 years relevant
experience after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry
is required for appointment as a Grade 3 Specialist Knowledge, Skills, Training
and Competencies: Sound knowledge and experience in Psychiatry.
Knowledge of current health and public service legislation, regulations and
policies including medical ethics, epidemiology, and statistics. Good
Communication, leadership, decision-making and clinical skills. Ability to teach
junior doctors and participate in continuing professional development.
DUTIES : Provide safe, ethical and high quality of care through the development of
standards and risk assessments in clinical and customer care (patient
perspective) in the respective specialty. Provide a full package of services
including after hour services. Develop, maintain and audit the correct
implementation of clinical protocols and guidelines. Implement and maintain an
efficient, effective and seamless service delivery process within the Institution
and referring facilities. Plan and provide continuous medical education to
multidisciplinary team members, conduct, and stimulate research. Manage and
direct performance of junior staff within the area of control. Align clinical service
delivery plans with hospital plans and priorities. Provide Specialist services and
support to the Clinical Head of Unit. Ensure Compliance with Norms and
Standards as prescribed by Office of Health Standards Compliance (OHSC).
Participate in the continued medical education programme in the institution.
Manage EPMDS of junior staff. Participate in the extended management
activities. Develop, Implement and monitor quality improvement programmes.
Develop and participate in the outreach programme. Ensure a functional
referral system. Actively participate in the academic programme run by the
Department of Health for the postgraduate training of Registrars. Clinical
teaching of undergraduate and postgraduate students. Engage in academic
research culminating in the publication of papers in scientific journals or the
presentation of the results of such research at scientific congresses. The
incumbent should have, comprehensive knowledge of speciality Discipline.
Competence in the clinical evaluation of patients, Interpretation of special
investigations within the Discipline. Render efficient and cost-effective services
to patients managed by the institution. Ensure Clinical Governance within the
Discipline. Deliver an effective and efficient administration of all resources
allocated to the Discipline. Assist the Head of Clinical Unit (HCU) to ensure an
optimal delivery of Services within the Discipline. Assist HCU in the
development of management protocols/policies for Department – Discipline.
Assist with Quality Improvement imperatives including Clinical Audits
(morbidity and mortality reporting and reviewing, clinical documentation audits
etc.) and continuous professional development activities. Maintain satisfactory
clinical professional and ethical standards in the department. Engage in
research and supervise registrar research. Partake in outreach programmes of
the DOH. After hours participation in call roasters.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs RT Dube Tel No: (033) 940 2499
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. Applicants are encouraged
to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za.
Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres
(DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or
receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online
Application Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.” NB:
147
Applications for these posts can be dropped-off at your nearest Health Facility.
All applications should be forwarded to: The Chief Director: Human Resource
Management Services, KZN Department of Health, Private Bag X9051,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200 OR Hand delivered to: 330 Langalibalele Street Natalia
Building, Registry, Minus 1:1 North Tower (Attention: Mrs N Radebe)
NOTE : We strive to create an environment that brings the power of diversity to life and
as such, this Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer,
whose aim is to promote inclusiveness in all occupational levels in the
Department”. Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed
Application for Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed,
initialed and dated. Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be
considered. All required information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to
complete or disclose all information will automatically disqualify the applicant.
The Z83 should be accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed
experience). Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of the interview following communication from Human
Resources. The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from
the State Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance
(vetting), criminal clearance, credit records, citizenship), verification of
Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from
Employers and verification from the Company Intellectual Property
Commission (CIPC). Applicants with foreign qualifications are requested to
have their qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such
evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that you submit your application before
the closing date as no late applications will be considered. If you apply for more
than 1 post, submit separate applications for each post that you apply for
quoting the relevant reference number. Should you not be contacted within 3
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/196 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: EAR, NOSE AND THROAT REF NO: M44/2025 (X1
X POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 – R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 – R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 – R2 212 680 per annum
Salary package: (all-inclusive salary packages, which consists of 70% basic
salary and 30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable
rules). Other Benefits: - Commuted Overtime (conditions applies)
CENTRE : Ngwelezane Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Appropriate tertiary qualification in the Health Science (MBChB)
An appropriate qualification that allows registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Ear, Nose and Throat. Registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Ear, Nose and Throat. Current HPCSA Registration Grade 1: No
experience required. Registrars who have completed their training may also
apply on condition that their appointment will be subject to them submitting
documentary evidence of registration with the Health Professions of South
Africa. Grade 2 In addition to the requirements for a grade 1 Specialist post a
minimum of 5 years relevant experience after registration with HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in Ear, Nose and Throat is required for appointment as a
Grade 2 Specialist. Grade 3 In addition to the requirements for a grade 1
Specialist post a minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration
with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Ear, Nose and Throat is required for
appointment as a Grade 3 Specialist knowledge, skills, training and
competencies: Sound knowledge and experience in Ear, Nose and Throat.
Knowledge of current health and public service legislation, regulations and
policies including medical ethics, epidemiology and statistics. Good
Communication, leadership, decision-making and clinical skills. Ability to teach
junior doctors and participate in continuing professional development.
DUTIES : Provide safe, ethical and high quality of care through the development of
standards and risk assessments in clinical and customer care (patient
perspective) in the respective specialty. Provide a full package of services
including after hour services. Develop, maintain and audit the correct
148
implementation of clinical protocols and guidelines. Implement and maintain an
efficient, effective and seamless service delivery process within the Institution
and referring facilities. Plan and provide continuous medical education to
multidisciplinary team members, conduct and stimulate research. Manage and
direct performance of junior staff within the area of control. Align clinical service
delivery plans with hospital plans and priorities. Provide Specialist services and
support to the Clinical Head of Unit. Ensure Compliance with Norms and
Standards as prescribed by Office of Health Standards Compliance (OHSC).
Participate in the continued medical education programme in the institution.
Manage EPMDS of junior staff. Participate in the extended management
activities. Develop, Implement and monitor quality improvement programmes.
Develop and participate in the outreach programme. Ensure a functional
referral system. Actively participate in the academic programme run by the
Department of Health for the postgraduate training of Registrars. Clinical
teaching of undergraduate and postgraduate students. Engage in academic
research culminating in the publication of papers in scientific journals or the
presentation of the results of such research at scientific congresses. The
incumbent should have, comprehensive knowledge of speciality Discipline.
Competence in the clinical evaluation of patients, Interpretation of special
investigations within the Discipline. Render efficient and cost-effective services
to patients managed by the institution. Ensure Clinical Governance within the
Discipline. Deliver an effective and efficient administration of all resources
allocated to the Discipline. Assist the Head of Clinical Unit (HCU) to ensure an
optimal delivery of Services within the Discipline. Assist HCU in the
development of management protocols/policies for Department – Discipline.
Assist with Quality Improvement imperatives including Clinical Audits
(morbidity and mortality reporting and reviewing, clinical documentation audits
etc.) and continuous professional development activities. Maintain satisfactory
clinical professional and ethical standards in the department. Engage in
research and supervise registrar research. Partake in outreach programmes of
the DOH. After hours participation in call roasters.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs RT Dube Tel No: (033) 940 2499
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. Applicants are encouraged
to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za.
Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres
(DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or
receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online
Application Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.” NB:
Applications for these posts can be dropped-off at your nearest Health Facility.
All applications should be forwarded to: The Chief Director: Human Resource
Management Services, KZN Department of Health, Private Bag X9051,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200 OR Hand delivered to: 330 Langalibalele Street Natalia
Building, Registry, Minus 1:1 North Tower (Attention: Mrs N Radebe)
NOTE : We strive to create an environment that brings the power of diversity to life and
as such, this Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer,
whose aim is to promote inclusiveness in all occupational levels in the
Department”. Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed
Application for Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed,
initialed and dated. Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be
considered. All required information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to
complete or disclose all information will automatically disqualify the applicant.
The Z83 should be accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed
experience). Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of the interview following communication from Human
Resources. The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from
the State Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance
(vetting), criminal clearance, credit records, citizenship), verification of
Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from
Employers and verification from the Company Intellectual Property
Commission (CIPC). Applicants with foreign qualifications are requested to
have their qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such
evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that you submit your application before
the closing date as no late applications will be considered. If you apply for more
149
than 1 post, submit separate applications for each post that you apply for
quoting the relevant reference number. Should you not be contacted within 3
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/197 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: PAEDIATRIC SURGERY REF NO: M45/2025 (X1
POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 – R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 – R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 – R2 212 680 per annum
Salary package: (all-inclusive salary packages, which consists of 70% basic
salary and 30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable
rules). other benefits: - Commuted Overtime (conditions applies)
CENTRE : Victoria Mxenge Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Appropriate tertiary qualification in the Health Science (MBChB)
An appropriate qualification that allows registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Paediatric Surgery. Registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Paediatric Surgery. Current HPCSA Registration Grade 1: No
experience required. Registrars who have completed their training may also
apply on condition that their appointment will be subject to them submitting
documentary evidence of registration with the Health Professions of South
Africa. Grade 2: In addition to the requirements for a grade 1 Specialist post a
minimum of 5 years relevant experience after registration with HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in Paediatric Surgery is required for appointment as a Grade
2 Specialist. Grade 3: In addition to the requirements for a grade 1 Specialist
post a minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with HPCSA
as a Medical Specialist in Paediatric Surgery is required for appointment as a
Grade 3 Specialist NB: Applicants in possession of a foreign qualification must
attach the evaluation certificate from the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA) to their applications Knowledge, Skills, Training And Competencies: -
Sound knowledge and experience in Paediatric Surgery. Knowledge of current
health and public service legislation, regulations and policies including medical
ethics, epidemiology and statistics. Good Communication, leadership,
decision-making and clinical skills. Ability to teach junior doctors and participate
in continuing professional development.
DUTIES : Provide safe, ethical and high quality of care through the development of
standards and risk assessments in clinical and customer care (patient
perspective) in the respective specialty. Provide a full package of services
including after hour services. Develop, maintain and audit the correct
implementation of clinical protocols and guidelines. Implement and maintain an
efficient, effective and seamless service delivery process within the Institution
and referring facilities. Plan and provide continuous medical education to
multidisciplinary team members, conduct and stimulate research. Manage and
direct performance of junior staff within the area of control. Align clinical service
delivery plans with hospital plans and priorities. Provide Specialist services and
support to the Clinical Head of Unit. Ensure Compliance with Norms and
Standards as prescribed by Office of Health Standards Compliance (OHSC).
Participate in the continued medical education programme in the institution.
Manage EPMDS of junior staff. Participate in the extended management
activities. Develop, Implement and monitor quality improvement programmes.
Develop and participate in the outreach programme. Ensure a functional
referral system. Actively participate in the academic programme run by the
Department of Health for the postgraduate training of Registrars. Clinical
teaching of undergraduate and postgraduate students. Engage in academic
research culminating in the publication of papers in scientific journals or the
presentation of the results of such research at scientific congresses. The
incumbent should have, comprehensive knowledge of speciality Discipline.
Competence in the clinical evaluation of patients, Interpretation of special
investigations within the Discipline. Render efficient and cost-effective services
to patients managed by the institution. Ensure Clinical Governance within the
Discipline. Deliver an effective and efficient administration of all resources
allocated to the Discipline. Assist the Head of Clinical Unit (HCU) to ensure an
optimal delivery of Services within the Discipline. Assist HCU in the
150
development of management protocols/policies for Department – Discipline.
Assist with Quality Improvement imperatives including Clinical Audits
(morbidity and mortality reporting and reviewing, clinical documentation audits
etc.) and continuous professional development activities. Maintain satisfactory
clinical professional and ethical standards in the department. Engage in
research and supervise registrar research. Partake in outreach programmes of
the DOH. After hours participation in call roasters.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs RT Dube Tel No: (033) 940 2499
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. Applicants are encouraged
to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za.
Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres
(DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or
receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online
Application Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.” NB:
Applications for these posts can be dropped-off at your nearest Health Facility.
All Applications Should Be Forwarded To: The Chief Director: Human Resource
Management Services KZN Department of Health Private Bag X9051
Pietermaritzburg 3200 OR Hand delivered to: 330 Langalibalele Street Natalia
Building, Registry, Minus 1:1 North Tower (Attention: Mrs N Radebe)
NOTE : We strive to create an environment that brings the power of diversity to life and
as such, this Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer,
whose aim is to promote inclusiveness in all occupational levels in the
Department”. Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed
Application for Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed,
initialed and dated. Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be
considered. All required information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to
complete or disclose all information will automatically disqualify the applicant.
The Z83 should be accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed
experience). Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of the interview following communication from Human
Resources. The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from
the State Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance
(vetting), criminal clearance, credit records, citizenship), verification of
Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from
Employers and verification from the Company Intellectual Property
Commission (CIPC). Applicants with foreign qualifications are requested to
have their qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such
evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that you submit your application before
the closing date as no late applications will be considered. If you apply for more
than 1 post, submit separate applications for each post that you apply for
quoting the relevant reference number. Should you not be contacted within 3
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/198 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: PAEDIATRIC ENDOCRINOLOGY REF NO:
M51/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 – R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 – R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 – R2 212 680 per annum
Salary Package: (all-inclusive salary packages, which consists of 70% basic
salary and 30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable
rules). Other Benefits: - Commuted Overtime (conditions applies)
CENTRE : Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Appropriate tertiary qualification in the Health Science (MBChB)
An appropriate qualification that allows registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Paediatric Endocrinology. Registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Paediatric Endocrinology. Current HPCSA Registration Grade 1:
No experience required. Registrars who have completed their training may also
apply on condition that their appointment will be subject to them submitting
151
documentary evidence of registration with the Health Professions of South
Africa. Grade 2: In addition to the requirements for a grade 1 Specialist post a
minimum of 5 years relevant experience after registration with HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in Paediatric Endocrinology is required for appointment as
a Grade 2 Specialist. Grade 3: In addition to the requirements for a grade 1
Specialist post a minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration
with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Paediatric Endocrinology is required for
appointment as a Grade 3 Specialist NB: Applicants in possession of a foreign
qualification must attach the evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) to their applications Knowledge, Skills,
Training And Competencies: - Sound knowledge and experience in Paediatric
Endocrinology. Knowledge of current health and public service legislation,
regulations and policies including medical ethics, epidemiology and statistics.
Good Communication, leadership, decision-making and clinical skills. Ability to
teach junior doctors and participate in continuing professional development.
DUTIES : Provide safe, ethical and high quality of care through the development of
standards and risk assessments in clinical and customer care (patient
perspective) in the respective specialty. Provide a full package of services
including after hour services. Develop, maintain and audit the correct
implementation of clinical protocols and guidelines. Implement and maintain an
efficient, effective and seamless service delivery process within the Institution
and referring facilities. Plan and provide continuous medical education to
multidisciplinary team members, conduct and stimulate research. Manage and
direct performance of junior staff within the area of control. Align clinical service
delivery plans with hospital plans and priorities. Provide Specialist services and
support to the Clinical Head of Unit. Ensure Compliance with Norms and
Standards as prescribed by Office of Health Standards Compliance (OHSC).
Participate in the continued medical education programme in the institution.
Manage EPMDS of junior staff. Participate in the extended management
activities. Develop, Implement and monitor quality improvement programmes.
Develop and participate in the outreach programme. Ensure a functional
referral system. Actively participate in the academic programme run by the
Department of Health for the postgraduate training of Registrars. Clinical
teaching of undergraduate and postgraduate students. Engage in academic
research culminating in the publication of papers in scientific journals or the
presentation of the results of such research at scientific congresses. The
incumbent should have, comprehensive knowledge of speciality Discipline.
Competence in the clinical evaluation of patients, Interpretation of special
investigations within the Discipline. Render efficient and cost-effective services
to patients managed by the institution. Ensure Clinical Governance within the
Discipline. Deliver an effective and efficient administration of all resources
allocated to the Discipline. Assist the Head of Clinical Unit (HCU) to ensure an
optimal delivery of Services within the Discipline. Assist HCU in the
development of management protocols/policies for Department – Discipline.
Assist with Quality Improvement imperatives including Clinical Audits
(morbidity and mortality reporting and reviewing, clinical documentation audits
etc.) and continuous professional development activities. Maintain satisfactory
clinical professional and ethical standards in the department. Engage in
research and supervise registrar research. Partake in outreach programmes of
the DOH. After hours participation in call roasters.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs RT Dube Tel No: (033) 940 2499
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. Applicants are encouraged
to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za.
Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres
(DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or
receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online
Application Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.” NB:
Applications for these posts can be dropped-off at your nearest Health Facility.
All applications should be forwarded to: The Chief Director: Human Resource
Management Services, KZN Department of Health, Private Bag X9051,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200 OR Hand delivered to: 330 Langalibalele Street Natalia
Building, Registry, Minus 1:1 North Tower (Attention: Mrs N Radebe)
NOTE : We strive to create an environment that brings the power of diversity to life and
as such, this Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer,
152
whose aim is to promote inclusiveness in all occupational levels in the
Department”. Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed
Application for Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed,
initialed and dated. Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be
considered. All required information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to
complete or disclose all information will automatically disqualify the applicant.
The Z83 should be accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed
experience). Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of the interview following communication from Human
Resources. The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from
the State Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance
(vetting), criminal clearance, credit records, citizenship), verification of
Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from
Employers and verification from the Company Intellectual Property
Commission (CIPC). Applicants with foreign qualifications are requested to
have their qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such
evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that you submit your application before
the closing date as no late applications will be considered. If you apply for more
than 1 post, submit separate applications for each post that you apply for
quoting the relevant reference number. Should you not be contacted within 3
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/199 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: PAEDIATRIC CARDIOTHORACIC SURGERY REF
NO: M52/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 – R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 – R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 – R2 212 680 per annum
Salary package: (All-inclusive salary packages, which consists of 70% basic
salary and 30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable
rules). Other Benefits: - Commuted Overtime (conditions applies)
CENTRE : Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Appropriate tertiary qualification in the Health Science (MBChB)
An appropriate qualification that allows registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Paediatric Cardiothoracic Surgery. Registration with HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in Paediatric Cardiothoracic Surgery. Current HPCSA
Registration Grade 1: No experience required. Registrars who have completed
their training may also apply on condition that their appointment will be subject
to them submitting documentary evidence of registration with the Health
Professions of South Africa. Grade 2 In addition to the requirements for a grade
1 Specialist post a minimum of 5 years relevant experience after registration
with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Paediatric Cardiothoracic Surgery is
required for appointment as a Grade 2 Specialist. Grade 3: In addition to the
requirements for a grade 1 Specialist post a minimum of 10 years relevant
experience after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Paediatric
Cardiothoracic Surgery is required for appointment as a Grade 3 Specialist
Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies: Sound knowledge and
experience in Paediatric Cardiothoracic Surgery. Knowledge of current health
and public service legislation, regulations and policies including medical ethics,
epidemiology and statistics. Good Communication, leadership, decision-
making and clinical skills. Ability to teach junior doctors and participate in
continuing professional development.
DUTIES : Provide safe, ethical and high quality of care through the development of
standards and risk assessments in clinical and customer care (patient
perspective) in the respective specialty. Provide a full package of services
including after hour services. Develop, maintain and audit the correct
implementation of clinical protocols and guidelines. Implement and maintain an
efficient, effective and seamless service delivery process within the Institution
and referring facilities. Plan and provide continuous medical education to
multidisciplinary team members, conduct and stimulate research. Manage and
direct performance of junior staff within the area of control. Align clinical service
delivery plans with hospital plans and priorities. Provide Specialist services and
153
support to the Clinical Head of Unit. Ensure Compliance with Norms and
Standards as prescribed by Office of Health Standards Compliance (OHSC).
Participate in the continued medical education programme in the institution.
Manage EPMDS of junior staff. Participate in the extended management
activities. Develop, Implement and monitor quality improvement programmes.
Develop and participate in the outreach programme. Ensure a functional
referral system. Actively participate in the academic programme run by the
Department of Health for the postgraduate training of Registrars. Clinical
teaching of undergraduate and postgraduate students. Engage in academic
research culminating in the publication of papers in scientific journals or the
presentation of the results of such research at scientific congresses. The
incumbent should have, comprehensive knowledge of speciality Discipline.
Competence in the clinical evaluation of patients, Interpretation of special
investigations within the Discipline. Render efficient and cost-effective services
to patients managed by the institution. Ensure Clinical Governance within the
Discipline. Deliver an effective and efficient administration of all resources
allocated to the Discipline. Assist the Head of Clinical Unit (HCU) to ensure an
optimal delivery of Services within the Discipline. Assist HCU in the
development of management protocols/policies for Department – Discipline.
Assist with Quality Improvement imperatives including Clinical Audits
(morbidity and mortality reporting and reviewing, clinical documentation audits
etc.) and continuous professional development activities. Maintain satisfactory
clinical professional and ethical standards in the department. Engage in
research and supervise registrar research. Partake in outreach programmes of
the DOH. After hours participation in call roasters.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs RT Dube Tel No: (033) 940 2499
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. Applicants are encouraged
to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za.
Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres
(DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or
receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online
Application Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.”
NB://Applications for these posts can be dropped-off at your nearest Health
Facility. All Applications Should Be Forwarded To: The Chief Director: Human
Resource Management Services KZN Department of Health Private Bag
X9051 Pietermaritzburg 3200 OR Hand delivered to: 330 Langalibalele Street
Natalia Building, Registry, Minus 1:1 North Tower (Attention: Mrs N Radebe)
NOTE : We strive to create an environment that brings the power of diversity to life and
as such, this Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer,
whose aim is to promote inclusiveness in all occupational levels in the
Department”. Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed
Application for Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed,
initialed and dated. Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be
considered. All required information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to
complete or disclose all information will automatically disqualify the applicant.
The Z83 should be accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed
experience). Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of the interview following communication from Human
Resources. The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from
the State Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance
(vetting), criminal clearance, credit records, citizenship), verification of
Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from
Employers and verification from the Company Intellectual Property
Commission (CIPC). Applicants with foreign qualifications are requested to
have their qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such
evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that you submit your application before
the closing date as no late applications will be considered. If you apply for more
than 1 post, submit separate applications for each post that you apply for
quoting the relevant reference number. Should you not be contacted within 3
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
154
POST 31/200 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: INTERNAL MEDICINE REF NO: M53/2025 (X1
POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 – R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 – R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 – R2 212 680 per annum
Salary package: (all-inclusive salary packages, which consists of 70% basic
salary and 30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable
rules). Other Benefits: - Commuted Overtime (conditions applies)
CENTRE : Greys Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Appropriate tertiary qualification in the Health Science (MBChB)
An appropriate qualification that allows registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Internal Medicine. Registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Internal Medicine. Current HPCSA Registration Grade 1: No
experience required. Registrars who have completed their training may also
apply on condition that their appointment will be subject to them submitting
documentary evidence of registration with the Health Professions of South
Africa. Grade 2: In addition to the requirements for a grade 1 Specialist post a
minimum of 5 years relevant experience after registration with HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine is required for appointment as a Grade
2 Specialist. Grade 3: In addition to the requirements for a grade 1 Specialist
post a minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with HPCSA
as a Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine is required for appointment as a
Grade 3 Specialist. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies: Sound
knowledge and experience in Internal Medicine. Knowledge of current health
and public service legislation, regulations and policies including medical ethics,
epidemiology and statistics. Good Communication, leadership, decision-
making and clinical skills. Ability to teach junior doctors and participate in
continuing professional development.
DUTIES : Provide safe, ethical and high quality of care through the development of
standards and risk assessments in clinical and customer care (patient
perspective) in the respective specialty. Provide a full package of services
including after hour services. Develop, maintain and audit the correct
implementation of clinical protocols and guidelines. Implement and maintain an
efficient, effective and seamless service delivery process within the Institution
and referring facilities. Plan and provide continuous medical education to
multidisciplinary team members, conduct and stimulate research. Manage and
direct performance of junior staff within the area of control. Align clinical service
delivery plans with hospital plans and priorities. Provide Specialist services and
support to the Clinical Head of Unit. Ensure Compliance with Norms and
Standards as prescribed by Office of Health Standards Compliance (OHSC).
Participate in the continued medical education programme in the institution.
Manage EPMDS of junior staff. Participate in the extended management
activities. Develop, Implement and monitor quality improvement programmes.
Develop and participate in the outreach programme. Ensure a functional
referral system. Actively participate in the academic programme run by the
Department of Health for the postgraduate training of Registrars. Clinical
teaching of undergraduate and postgraduate students. Engage in academic
research culminating in the publication of papers in scientific journals or the
presentation of the results of such research at scientific congresses. The
incumbent should have, comprehensive knowledge of speciality Discipline.
Competence in the clinical evaluation of patients, Interpretation of special
investigations within the Discipline. Render efficient and cost-effective services
to patients managed by the institution. Ensure Clinical Governance within the
Discipline. Deliver an effective and efficient administration of all resources
allocated to the Discipline. Assist the Head of Clinical Unit (HCU) to ensure an
optimal delivery of Services within the Discipline. Assist HCU in the
development of management protocols/policies for Department – Discipline.
Assist with Quality Improvement imperatives including Clinical Audits
(morbidity and mortality reporting and reviewing, clinical documentation audits
etc.) and continuous professional development activities. Maintain satisfactory
clinical professional and ethical standards in the department. Engage in
research and supervise registrar research. Partake in outreach programmes of
the DOH. After hours participation in call roasters.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs RT Dube Tel No: (033) 940 2499
155
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. Applicants are encouraged
to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za.
Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres
(DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or
receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online
Application Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.” NB:
Applications for these posts can be dropped-off at your nearest Health Facility.
All Applications Should Be Forwarded To: The Chief Director: Human Resource
Management Services KZN Department of Health Private Bag X9051,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200 OR Hand delivered to: 330 Langalibalele Street Natalia
Building, Registry, Minus 1:1 North Tower (Attention: Mrs N Radebe)
NOTE : We strive to create an environment that brings the power of diversity to life and
as such, this Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer,
whose aim is to promote inclusiveness in all occupational levels in the
Department”. Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed
Application for Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed,
initialed and dated. Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be
considered. All required information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to
complete or disclose all information will automatically disqualify the applicant.
The Z83 should be accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed
experience). Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of the interview following communication from Human
Resources. The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from
the State Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance
(vetting), criminal clearance, credit records, citizenship), verification of
Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from
Employers and verification from the Company Intellectual Property
Commission (CIPC). Applicants with foreign qualifications are requested to
have their qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such
evaluation (when shortlisted). Applicants: Please ensure that you submit your
application before the closing date as no late applications will be considered. If
you apply for more than 1 post, submit separate applications for each post that
you apply for quoting the relevant reference number. Should you not be
contacted within 3 months of the closing date of the advertisement, please
consider your application to be unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/201 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: UROLOGY REF NO: M54/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 – R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 – R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 – R2 212 680 per annum
Salary package: (all-inclusive salary packages, which consists of 70% basic
salary and 30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable
rules). Other Benefits: Commuted Overtime (conditions applies)
CENTRE : Madadeni Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENT : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Appropriate tertiary qualification in the Health Science (MBChB)
An appropriate qualification that allows registration with HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Urology. Registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Urology. Current HPCSA Registration. Grade 1: No experience required.
Registrars who have completed their training may also apply on condition that
their appointment will be subject to them submitting documentary evidence of
registration with the Health Professions of South Africa. Grade 2: In addition to
the requirements for a grade 1 Specialist post a minimum of 5 years relevant
experience after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Urology is
required for appointment as a Grade 2 Specialist. Grade 3: In addition to the
requirements for a grade 1 Specialist post a minimum of 10 years relevant
experience after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Urology is
required for appointment as a Grade 3 Specialist. Knowledge, Skills, Training
and Competencies: Sound knowledge and experience in Urology. Knowledge
of current health and public service legislation, regulations and policies
156
including medical ethics, epidemiology and statistics. Good Communication,
leadership, decision-making and clinical skills. Ability to teach junior doctors
and participate in continuing professional development.
DUTIES : Provide safe, ethical and high quality of care through the development of
standards and risk assessments in clinical and customer care (patient
perspective) in the respective specialty. Provide a full package of services
including after hour services. Develop, maintain and audit the correct
implementation of clinical protocols and guidelines. Implement and maintain an
efficient, effective and seamless service delivery process within the Institution
and referring facilities. Plan and provide continuous medical education to
multidisciplinary team members, conduct and stimulate research. Manage and
direct performance of junior staff within the area of control. Align clinical service
delivery plans with hospital plans and priorities. Provide Specialist services and
support to the Clinical Head of Unit. Ensure Compliance with Norms and
Standards as prescribed by Office of Health Standards Compliance (OHSC).
Participate in the continued medical education programme in the institution.
Manage EPMDS of junior staff. Participate in the extended management
activities. Develop, Implement and monitor quality improvement programmes.
Develop and participate in the outreach programme. Ensure a functional
referral system. Actively participate in the academic programme run by the
Department of Health for the postgraduate training of Registrars. Clinical
teaching of undergraduate and postgraduate students. Engage in academic
research culminating in the publication of papers in scientific journals or the
presentation of the results of such research at scientific congresses. The
incumbent should have, comprehensive knowledge of speciality Discipline.
Competence in the clinical evaluation of patients, Interpretation of special
investigations within the Discipline. Render efficient and cost-effective services
to patients managed by the institution. Ensure Clinical Governance within the
Discipline. Deliver an effective and efficient administration of all resources
allocated to the Discipline. Assist the Head of Clinical Unit (HCU) to ensure an
optimal delivery of Services within the Discipline. Assist HCU in the
development of management protocols/policies for Department – Discipline.
Assist with Quality Improvement imperatives including Clinical Audits
(morbidity and mortality reporting and reviewing, clinical documentation audits
etc.) and continuous professional development activities. Maintain satisfactory
clinical professional and ethical standards in the department. Engage in
research and supervise registrar research. Partake in outreach programmes of
the DOH. After hours participation in call roasters.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs RT Dube Tel No: (033) 940 2499
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. Applicants are encouraged
to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za.
Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres
(DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or
receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated Online
Application Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.” NB:
Applications for these posts can be dropped off at your nearest Health Facility.
All applications should be forwarded to: The Chief Director: Human Resource
Management Services, KZN Department of Health Private Bag X9051,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or Hand delivered to: 330 Langalibalele Street Natalia
Building, Registry, Minus 1:1 North Tower (Attention: Mrs N Radebe)
NOTE : We strive to create an environment that brings the power of diversity to life and
as such, this Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer,
whose aim is to promote inclusiveness in all occupational levels in the
Department”. Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed
Application for Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed,
initialed and dated. Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be
considered. All required information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to
complete or disclose all information will automatically disqualify the applicant.
The Z83 should be accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed
experience). Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on
or before the day of the interview following communication from Human
Resources. The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from
the State Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance
157
(vetting), criminal clearance, credit records, citizenship), verification of
Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from
Employers and verification from the Company Intellectual Property
Commission (CIPC). Applicants with foreign qualifications are requested to
have their qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such
evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that you submit your application before
the closing date as no late applications will be considered. If you apply for more
than 1 post, submit separate applications for each post that you apply for
quoting the relevant reference number. Should you not be contacted within 3
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/202 : DEPUTY MANAGER NURSING LEVEL 1&2 REF NO: DMN 01/2025
Job Purpose: To ensure that a holistic nursing care service is delivered to
patients in a cost effective, efficient, and equitable manner by the Nursing
department of the institution including the overall management of nursing
services (i.e. operational, HR and Finance of the nursing department). Ensure
compliance to professional and ethical practice.
SALARY : R1 028 091 – R1 155 099 per annum (PNA8)
CENTRE : Benedictine District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (senior certificate) or equivalent Diploma / Degree in Nursing that
allows registration with SANC as Professional Nurse/ registered nurse (R 425)
2025 receipt from South African Nursing Council (Annual subscription) plus
minimum of 9 years appropriate / recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.at least 4
years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/ recognizable
experience at management level. Valid driver’s license. Diploma/ Degree in
Nursing Administration/Management.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and direction within the Nursing Component.
Provide professional, technical and management support for the provision of
quality patient care through proper management of nursing care programmes.
Develop and monitor the implementation of policies, programmes regulations
practices, procedures and standards pertaining to nursing care. Ensure
effective and efficient management of resources under his/her control. Provide
professional and management support for the provision of quality patient care.
Advocate and ensure the promotion of nursing ethos and professionalism.
Manage and monitor health promotion programme with the hospital and PHC
services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SV Vilakazi at 067 426 6420
APPLICATIONS : all applications should be forwarded to: Assistant Director: Human Resource
management services, KZN Department of Health, Private Bag X5007,
Nongoma, 3950 or Hand delivered to: Benedictine Hospital, Vryheid Main
Road, Nongoma, Registry Department (attention Mr. MM Zulu) interested
applicants can visit the following website at www.kznoline.gov.za/kznjobs for
full posts details. “Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the
online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their
Z83 and CV directly to the following email address:
mlungisi.zulu@kznhealth.gov.za NB//The subject of your e-mail must be the
post name that you are applying for”. Applicants may also visit any one of our
Designated Online Application Centre’s (DOACS) where our friendly staff will
assist you with applying online or receiving your hardcopy application. You can
find the list of Designated Online Centre’s (DOACS) at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed application for Employment
form (Z83) which must be originally signed, initialed and dated. Applications
received on the incorrect Z83 will not be considered. All required information
on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or disclose all information
will automatically disqualify the applicant. The Z83 should be accompanied by
a comprehensive CV (with detailed experience). Persons with disabilities
should feel free to apply for the post. Only shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. The appointments are
subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State Security Agency (SSA) to
the following checks(vetting), criminal clearance, credit records, citizenship),
verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous
158
experience from Employers and verification from the Company Intellectual
Property Commission (CIPC). Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by
an evaluation report issued by SAQA. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
all foreign qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such
evaluation (only when shortlisted). Applicants: please ensure that you submit
your application before the closing date as no late applications will be
considered. If you apply for more that 1 post, submit separate applications for
each post that you apply for. Should you not be contacted within 3 of the losing
date of the advertisement, please consider your application to be unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/203 : DEPUTY MANAGER NURSING (LEVEL 1&2 HOSPITALS) REF NO: CTH
03/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 028 091 per annum, plus 12%
CENTRE : Ceza-Thulasizwe District Hospital
REQUIMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate), or Equivalent, Diploma/degree in General
Nursing that allows Registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse (R425),
Registration with South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse (2025), A minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable Experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in General
Nursing. At least 4 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience at Management level. Valid driver’s
licence. Current proof of registration with SANC for 2025. Knowledge, Skills,
Training and Competencies Required: Knowledge of Nursing care policies and
procedures, nursing statutory regulations and guidelines, and other relevant
legal framework i.e. Nursing Act, Labour Relations, etc; Health and Safety,
Patients’ Rights charter Batho Pele principles, Public Service Regulations,
Grievance and Disciplinary Procedure; Good communication, report writing,
facilitation leadership, Decision making and problem solving; Financial and
Human Resource Management; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and direction within the Nursing Component;
Provide professional, technical and management support for the provision of
quality patient care through proper management of nursing care programmes;
Develop and monitor the implementation of policies, programmes, regulations,
practices, procedures and standards pertaining to nursing care; Ensure
effective and efficient management of resources under his/her control; Provide
professional and management support for the provision of quality patient care;
Advocate and ensure the promotion of ethos and professionalism; Manage and
monitor health programme with hospital and PHC services; Provide District
Health Services.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S.N.P. Ntuli Tel No: (035) 8325 001
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be forwarded to: The Acting Chief Executive Officer, Ceza-
Thulasizwe District Hospital, Private Bag X200, Ceza, 3866 or Hand Delivered
to: HR Registry. Interested applicants Can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts
through the online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za or submit
their Z83 and CV at email address Head Office
HRJobapplication@kznhealth.gov.za. The facility e-mail Address is
nelisiwe.nkwanyana@kznhealth.gov.za
159
ANNEXURE M
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS, ROADS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
APPLICATIONS : Applicants should apply through the following website
htt://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za. The application on the eRecruitment system
should be accompanied by the new Z83 and recent comprehensive CV
(previous experience must be comprehensively detailed, i.e. positions held and
duration/dates). Failure to attach required documents will result in the
application not being considered/disqualified Applications may also be hand
delivered/posted to: Department of Public Works, Roads and Infrastructure:
Private Bag X9490, Polokwane, 0700 or hand delivered at Works Tower
Building, No. 43 Church Street, Polokwane, 0699.
For Capricorn District: Private Bag X9378, Polokwane 0700 Or hand deliver
at 15 Landros Mare street, next to Correctional Services.
For Mopani District: Private Bag X576, Giyani 0826 or hand deliver at 570
Parliamentary Building, Giyani.
For Sekhukhune District: Private Bag X02, Chuenespoort, 0745 or hand
deliver at Lebowakgomo Zone A, next to traffic department.
For Vhembe District: Private Bag X2248, Sibasa, 0970 or hand deliver at Cnr.
Traffic and Raluswielo Street, Sibasa.
For Waterberg District: Private Bag X1028, Modimolle, 0510 or hand deliver
at Cnr. Thabo Mbeki & Elias Motsoaledi Street. The application on
eRecruitment system should be accompanied by recent comprehensive CV
(previous experience must be comprehensively detailed, i.e. positions held and
duration/dates) as well as copies of all qualifications, Identity Document and
valid driver’s license Only. Failure to attach copies and required documents will
result in the application not being considered/disqualification.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025 at 16h30
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly completed prescribed Z83 application
for employment form (2021 version) obtainable from any public service
department or can be downloaded from www.dpsa.gov.za. Applications must
be accompanied by a detailed CV. Applicants are not required to submit copies
of qualifications and other relevant documents on application except when
applying through the erecruitment system. All fields in Part A, Part C and Part
D of the Z83 form should be completed. In Part B, all fields should be completed
in full. Part E, F & G applicants often indicate “refer to CV or see attached”, this
is acceptable as long as the CV has been attached and provides the required
information. Applicants with foreign qualifications remain responsible for
ensuring that their qualifications are evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Successful incumbent will be expected to sign
a performance agreement within one month after assumption of duty. The
successful candidate will also be required to disclose his or her financial
interests in accordance with the prescribed regulations. Shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a competency–based assessment and a
technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job,
the logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. All shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a security clearance and verification of
qualifications. A pre-entry certificate obtained from National School of
Government (NSG) is required for all SMS posts. Proof of the completion of
the SMS pre-entry programme (Nyukela) must be submitted prior appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the
link:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme/. The
recommended candidate for appointment will be subjected to Personnel
Suitability Check for security reasons. Failure to comply with the above
requirements will result in the disqualification of the application. The
Department reserve the right not to make any appointment(s) to the posts
advertised. The employment decision shall be informed by the Employment
Equity Plan of the Department. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within three (3) months after the
closing date, please consider your application as being unsuccessful.
However, should there be any dissatisfaction, applicants are advised to seek
reasons for the above administration action in terms of Promotion of
Administrative Justice Act (PAJA), Act No. 3 of 2000. The department will not
carry any related costs (transport, accommodation or meals) for candidates
160
attending interviews. The Department of Public Works, Roads and
Infrastructure is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. Women
and people living with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 31/204 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: PROPERTY AND FACILITIES MANAGEMENT REF NO:
S. 4/3/3/36
Component: Property and Facilities Management
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (to be structured according to Individual
needs)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised
by SAQA in Property Management / Real Estate / Property Law /Property
Valuation /Bachelor of Science in Property Studies. Five (5) years of
experience at senior managerial level. Valid driver’s license with the exception
of persons with disabilities. Core And Process Competencies: Strategic,
Capability and Leadership, Programme and Project Management, Financial
Management, Change Management, Knowledge Management, Service
Delivery Innovation (SDI), Problem Solving and Analysis, People Management
and Empowerment, Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication
Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : Manage the provision and implementation of acquisition and disposal
management services: Manage policies for leases-in and leases-out for offices,
shared offices and residential needs of the province which are applicable to all
Provincial Departments. Manage uniform norms and standards for leases-in
and leases-out applicable to all Provincial Departments. Manage the strategies
for leases-in and leases-out to optimally benefit the Province. Manage
strategies to generate revenue from Government Immovable Assets in terms
of rental payment. (residential, office and private entities accommodation).
Manage the identification and scoping of projects to generate revenue from
Government Immovable Assets, e.g. Public Private Partnerships. Manage and
provide strategies pertaining to arrear rental recovery. Manage the negotiation,
procurement and conclusion of all lease agreements supported by Provincial
Supply Chain Management based on needs submitted by the other Chief
Directorates in the Branch. Monitor that Districts comply with the norms and
standards in terms of the management of lease contracts in Districts. Manage
policies for acquisitions and disposals [excluding leases]. Manage the
Department Disposal Committee responsible for Provincial Disposals of
immovable assets. Manage the implementation of proclamations and inherent
legislation applicable to acquisitions of immovable assets. Manage the
coordination of the completion of vesting through the different Chief
Directorates in the Branch. Manage the coordination of the zoning, subdivision
and re-consolidation of land as requested by the different Chief Directorates in
the Branch. Manage the provision of operations management services:
Manage the provision of credible data and information in terms of land,
services, and utilisation of immovable assets. Participate in the development
and updating of the Limpopo Master Infrastructure Plan. Participate in the
review and updating of the Limpopo Infrastructure Delivery Management
System based on institutional changes and areas identified for improvements.
Manage the Immovable Asset Register System for the Province. Manage
system support for the updating of the Immovable Asset Register. Manage the
provision of geographical information services and produce maps to all
functional units in the Department. Manage the development of a consolidated
Provincial Asset Management Plan. Manage the payment of municipal rates
and taxes. Manage the provincial landscape designs and projects.
Management of the delivery of prestige accommodation. [legislature and
official accommodation for political office bearers]: Manage policies, norms and
standards for prestige accommodation in line with National Guidelines and
Handbooks. Manage norms and standards for the maintenance of prestige
accommodation. Manage norms and standards for the provision of facility
management services [e.g. security, landscaping] being provided for prestige
accommodation in line with National Guidelines and Handbooks. Manage
implementation of and reporting on prestige accommodation. Manage the
rendering of maintenance work at prestige accommodation through internal
staff and outsourced services. Manage the rendering of facility services at
161
prestige accommodation through internal staff and outsourced services.
Manage the setting of norms and standards for technical condition
assessments for prestige accommodation. Provide inventory of prestige
accommodation. Manage and utilize resources (human, financial & physical)
in accordance with relevant directives and legislation: Give direction to team in
realising the Directorate’s strategic objectives: Develop action plans to execute
strategic initiatives: Ensure proper implementation of the budget by monitoring,
projecting & reporting expenditure. Monitor and report on the utilisation of
equipment’s. Co-ordinate memorandum of understanding, service level
agreements and expenditure review. Ensure that the division is adequately
staffed. Evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal of employees.
Ensure capacity and development of staff. Manage discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/7627,7262.
OTHER POSTS
POST 31/205 : CHIEF ENGINEER GRADE A REF NO: S.4/3/15/3
Component: Provincial Maintenance Hub
SALARY : Grade A: R1 266 449 per annum, (OSD), (to be structured according to
individual needs)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF Level 7 as recognize
by SAQA in B Engineering or B Sc in Engineering. Six years’ post qualification
experience required as a registered Professional Engineer. Compulsory
registration with the ECSA as a Professional Engineer. Valid driver’s license
with the exception of persons with disabilities. Generic Competencies:
Strategic capability and leadership. Problem solving and analysis. Decision
Making. Team Leadership. Creativity. Financial Management. Customer focus
and responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills. People management.
Planning and organizing. Conflict Management. Negotiation skills. Change
management. Technical Competencies: Programme and project management.
Engineering, legal and operational compliance. Engineering operational
communication. Process knowledge and skills. Maintenance skills and
knowledge. Mobile equipment and analysis knowledge. Engineering design
and analysis knowledge. Research and development. Computer- aided
engineering applications. Creating high performance culture. Technical
consulting. Engineering and professional judgement.
DUTIES : Engineering design and analysis effectiveness: Perform final review and
approvals or audits on new engineering designs according to design principles
or theory. Coordinate design efforts and integration across disciplines to ensure
seamless integration with current technology. Pioneering of new engineering
services and management methods. Maintain engineering operational
effectiveness. Manage the execution of management strategy through the
provision of appropriate structures, systems and resources. Set engineering
maintenance standards, specifications and service levels according to
organisational objectives to ensure optimum operational availability. Monitor
management efficiencies according to organisational goals to direct or redirect
engineering services for the attainment of organizational objectives. Financial
management: Ensure the availability and management of funds to meet the
MTEF objectives within the engineering environment/services. Manage the
operational capital project portfolio for the operation to ensure effective
resourcing according to organizational needs and objectives. Manage the
commercial value add of the discipline-related programmes and projects.
Facilitate the compilation of innovation proposals to ensure validity and
adherence to organisational principles. Allocate, control and monitor
expenditure according to budget to ensure efficient cash flow management.
Governance: Allocate, control, monitor and report on all resources. Compile
risk log and manages significant risk according to sound risk management
practice and organizational requirements. Provide technical consulting
services for the operation of engineering related matters to minimize possible
engineering risks. Manage and implement knowledge sharing initiatives e.g.
short-term assignments and secondments within and across operations, in
support of individual development plans, operational requirements and return
on investment. Continuously monitor the exchange and protection of
information between operations and individuals to ensure effective knowledge
162
management according to departmental objectives. People management:
Manage the development, motivation and utilisation of human resources for
the discipline to ensure competent knowledge base for the continued success
of engineering services according to organizational needs and requirements.
Manage subordinates’ key performance areas by setting and monitoring
performance standards and taking actions to correct deviations to achieve
departmental objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ and Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/7627,7262
POST 31/206 : CHIEF ARCHITECT GRADE A REF NO: S.4/3/12/4
Component: Education Infrastructure delivery
SALARY : Grade A: R1 099 488 per annum, (OSD), (to be structured according to
Individual needs)
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF Level 7 as recognized
by SAQA in Architecture. Six years’ architectural post qualification experience
required. Compulsory registration with the SACAP as a Professional Architect.
Valid driver’s license with the exception of persons with disabilities. Skills:
Strategic capability and leadership. Problem solving and analysis. Decision
making. Team leadership. Creativity. Financial management. Customer focus
and responsiveness. Communication. Computer Literacy. People
Management. Planning and organizing. Conflict Management. Negotiation
skills. Change management. Knowledge of: Programme and project
management. Architectural legal and operational compliance. Architectural
operational communication. Process knowledge and skills. Maintenance skills
and knowledge. Mobile equipment operating skills. Architectural principles.
Research and development. Computer-aided engineering and project
applications. Creating high performance culture. Technical consulting.
Professional judgement.
DUTIES : Architect design and analysis effectiveness: Perform final review and approvals
or audits on architectural designs according to design principles and theory. Co
– ordinate design efforts and integration across disciplines to ensure seamless
integration with current technology. Maintain architectural operational
effectiveness: Manage the execution of architectural strategy through the
provision of appropriate structures, systems and resources. Set architectural
standards, specifications and service levels according to organisational
objectives to ensure optimum operational availability. Monitor and maintain
efficiencies according to organisational goals to direct or redirect architectural
services for the attainment of organisational objectives. Financial
Management: Ensure availability and management of funds to meet the MTEF
objectives within the architectural environment/ services. Manage the
operational capital project portfolio for the operation to ensure effective
resourcing according to organisational needs and objectives. Manage the
commercial added value of the discipline-related programmes and projects.
Facilitate the compilation of innovation proposals to ensure validity and
adherence to organisational principles. Allocate, monitor and control
expenditure according to budget to ensure efficient cash flow management.
Governance: Allocate, monitor and control resources. Compiles risk logs and
manages significant risk according to sound risk management practice and
organisational requirements. Provide technical consulting services for the
operation of architectural related matters to minimise possible project risks.
Manage and implement knowledge sharing initiatives e.g. short – term
assignments and secondments within and across operations, in support of
individual development plans, operational requirements and return on
investment. Continuously monitor the exchange and protection of information
between operations and individuals to ensure effective knowledge
management according to departmental objectives. People management:
Direct the development motivation and utilization of human resources for the
discipline to ensure competent knowledge base for the continued success of
architectural services according to organisational needs and requirements.
Manage subordinates’ key performance areas by setting and monitoring
performance standards and taking actions to correct deviations to achieve
departmental objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ and Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/7627,7262
163
POST 31/207 : CHIEF QUANTITY SURVEYOR GRADE A REF NO: S.4/3/12/5
Component: Education Infrastructure delivery
SALARY : Grade A: R1 099 488 per annum, (OSD), (to be structured according to
individual needs)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF Level 7 as recognized
by SAQA in Quantity Survey. Six years’ Quantity Survey post qualification
experience required. Compulsory registration with SACQSP as a Professional
Quantity Surveyor. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with
disabilities. Skills: Strategic capability and leadership. Problem solving and
analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity. Financial
management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
Computer skills. People management. Planning and organizing. Conflict
management. Negotiation skills. Change management. Knowledge Of:
Programme and project management. Quantity Survey legal and operational
compliance. Quantity Survey operational communication. Process knowledge
and skills. Maintenance skills and knowledge. Mobile equipment operating
skills. Research and development. Computer-aided engineering applications.
Creating high performance culture. Technical consulting. Professional
judgement.
DUTIES : Quantity Survey analysis effectiveness: Perform final review and approvals or
audits on quantity survey procedures. Co-ordinate quantity survey efforts and
integration across disciplines to ensure seamless integration with current
technology. Maintain quantity survey operational effectiveness. Manage the
execution of quantity survey strategy through the provision of appropriate
structures, systems and resources. Set quantity survey standards,
specifications and service levels according to organizational objectives to
ensure optimum operational availability. Monitor quantity survey efficiencies
according to organizational goals to direct or redirect quantity survey services
for the attainment of organizational objectives. Financial Management: Ensure
the availability and management of funds to meet the MTEF objectives within
the quantity survey environment/services. Manage the operational capital
project portfolio for the operation to ensure effective resourcing according to
organizational needs and objectives. Manage the commercial added value of
the discipline-related programmes and projects. Facilitate the compilation of
innovation proposals to ensure validity and adherence to organizational
principles. Allocate, monitor, control expenditure according to budget to ensure
efficient cash flow management. Governance: Allocate, monitor and control
resources. Compile risk logs (database) and manage significant risk according
to sound risk management practice and organizational requirements. Provide
technical specialist services for the operation of quantity survey related matters
to minimize possible risks. Manage and implement knowledge sharing
initiatives in support of individual development plans, operational requirements
and return on investment. Continuously monitor the exchange and protection
of information between operations and individuals to ensure effective
knowledge management according to departmental objectives. People
management: Manage the development, motivation and utilisation of human
resources for the discipline to ensure competent knowledge base for the
continued success of quantity survey services according to organizational
needs and requirements. Manage subordinates’ key performance areas by
setting and monitoring performance standards and taking actions to correct
deviations to achieve departmental objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/7627,7262.
POST 31/208 : SENIOR PROJECT MANAGER MAINTENANCE REF NO: S.4/3/10/77
Component: Roads Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (to be structured according to Individual
needs)
CENTRE : Capricorn District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF Level 06 as recognize
by SAQA in Civil Engineering. Five (5) years relevant experience in Roads
Infrastructure Maintenance environment with at least 3 years in Junior
management position. Core And Process Competencies: People Management
164
and Empowerment; Programme and Project Management; Change
Management; Knowledge Management; Service Delivery Innovation; Problem
solving and analysis; Client Orientation and Customer focus; Communication.
Skills And Knowledge: Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts, regulations
and frameworks. Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis,
development and interpretation. PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Strategic
capability and leadership. Facilitation skills. Problem solving and analysis.
Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills. People management.
Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Manage the regravelling of roads and construction of drainage structures: Plan
and program roads regravelling and construction of drainage structures
Manage and coordinate the Identification, approval and the usage of the
borrow pits Manage and ensure the availability of resources (e.g. road
regravelling material) Coordinate the execution of road regravelling activities.
Monitor correct application and adherence to road regravelling and
construction of drainage structure standards. Manage the District Roads
Maintenance operations. Manage the implementation of road maintenance
manual. Manage and control the utilization of heavy roads construction and
maintenance plant and equipment’s meanly the shifting of plant from one
maintenance center to another Manage adherence to Occupational Health and
Safety by: Provide specifications for camp resources (sanitation resources etc.)
Provide specifications for protective clothing and equipment’s Manage roads
maintenance production and provide budget. Manage the provision of roads
construction and maintenance inspection operations: Manage the process of
conducting visual assessments on roads network and road works activities
Monitor the execution of roads construction and maintenance activities.
Coordinate the implementation of road projects. Manage the provision of
mechanical services. Manage the acquisition and disposal of district plant and
equipment Manage the district repairs and scheduled maintenance of plant and
equipment Manage the mechanical maintenance systems Manage roads
maintenance plant and equipment Manage the registration and renewal of
licensing for plant and equipment. Manage the implementation of roads
maintenance Expanded Public Works Programme Manage the district
Expanded Public Works Programme need analysis and projects. Monitor and
report on completion of small projects. Manage payment of NYS. Compile the
district reports. Manage and utilise resources (human, financial, & physical) in
accordance with relevant directives and legislation. Report on the utilisation of
equipment’s. Evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal of subordinates
Provide capacity development of subordinates. Enhance and maintain
subordinates’ motivation and cultivate a culture of performance management.
Provide job description to subordinates. Manage leave matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/7627,7262.
POST 31/209 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EPWP MONITORING AND REPORTING REF NO:
S.4/3/4/14
Component: EPWP Monitoring and Reporting
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (to be structured according to Individual
needs)
CENTRE : Head Office – Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF Level 06 as recognized
by SAQA in Developmental Studies/ Public Administration/Management. Five
(5) years relevant experience in EPWP environment with a minimum of three
(3) years at junior management level Drivers Licence Valid driver’s license, with
the exception of applicants with disabilities. Skills And Knowledge: Knowledge
of relevant Public Service Acts, regulations and frameworks. Knowledge and
understanding of policy analysis, development and interpretation. PFMA and
Treasury Regulations. Strategic capability and leadership. Problem solving and
analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity. Financial
management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
Computer skills. People management. Planning and organising. Conflict
management.
DUTIES : Monitor the creation of work opportunities across different sectors. Coordinate
and report programmes & projects that maximise on job creation and bias
towards employment intensive methodologies. Support Provincial
165
Departments, Municipalities and State-Owned Enterprises in the development
of EPWP Business Plans, implementation and monitoring of LIC Projects.
Report and Manage Programmes and Projects that create Green Jobs.
Cooperate with Partner Organisations and Consultants contracted by the
Department to ensure the objectives of the EPWP are met. Analyse the
efficiency and effectiveness of EPWP projects and produce relevant reports in
this regard. Monitor implementation of departmental EPWP projects. Develop
EPWP monitoring strategies, plans and guidelines. Conduct site visits to
projects to validate beneficiary information. Produce quarterly M&E reports.
Manage the provision of capacity building of stakeholders and public bodies.
Develop schedule for EPWP stakeholders and public bodies capacity building
program. Provide capacity building and training of stakeholders and public
bodies on EPWP projects reporting. Facilitate M&E system trainings to EPWP
Implementing Bodies. Conduct pre-audits across all sectors. Manage EPWP
Data Hub: Support EPWP projects in collecting and collating data and ensuring
reporting in the appropriate EPWP systems. Analyse data captured.
Management of provincial project data flow and processes. Manage and utilise
resources (human, financial, & physical) in accordance with relevant directives
and legislation. Report on the utilisation of equipment’s. Evaluate and monitor
performance and appraisal of subordinates. Provide capacity development of
subordinates. Enhance and maintain subordinates’ motivation and cultivate a
culture of performance management. Provide job description to subordinates.
Manage leave matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/7627,7262.
POST 31/210 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MECHANICAL SERVICES REF NO: S.4/3/10/212
Component: Mechanical Services
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (to be structured according to Individual
needs)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF Level 06 as recognized
by SAQA in Mechanical Engineering. 5 years’ experience in Mechanical (Plant
and equipment) environment with a minimum of three (3) years at Junior
management level. Drivers Licence Valid driver’s license, with the exception of
applicants with disabilities. Skills And Knowledge: Presentation skills. Conflict
management. Monitoring and Evaluation processes. Coordination and
negotiation skills. Logical and analytical thinking. Creativity, Problem solving
and listening skills. Good leadership. Report writing. Communication and
Motivation skills. Managerial knowledge in the sphere of Mechanical Plant and
Equipment. Fleet management. Public Service Regulations, Public Service
Act. PFMA and Treasury regulation. Public Finance Management Act. OHS
Act.
DUTIES : Acquire plant and equipment: Provide specification to acquire plant and
equipment. Conduct provincial needs assessment for the acquisition of plant
and equipment’s. Liaise with service providers. Implement mechanical
management systems. Conduct inspections of plant and equipment’s. Conduct
withdrawals of plant and equipment from asset register and business plan.
Monitor compliance to Service Level Agreement. Manage the distribution of
fleet and ensure that the distribution register is updated. Monitor registration
and licencing of plant and equipment. Manage repairs and maintenance of
plant and equipment: Provide service schedules for plant and equipment.
Provide Provincial technical evaluation of plant and equipment. Provide
availability and achievability reports. Facilitate maintenance and repairs of
plant and equipment. Facilitate the preventative maintenance solutions to
improve availability. Audit and analyse the condition report of the existing plant
and equipment. Audit plant and equipment repairs history files. Compare
cumulative costs of repairs against plant and equipment productivity. Assess
the physical and technical conditions of plant and equipment. Make
recommendations for repairs or replacement. Update the technical report file
of all plant and equipment. Facilitate the repairs and maintenance of
departmental light vehicles. Provide mechanical services for light vehicles.
Conduct auto body repair services. Conduct inspection relating to write off of
unserviceable light vehicles. Facilitate and oversee service level agreements
with mechanical services providers for light vehicles. Facilitate maintenance
and repairs of light vehicle. Manage disposal of plant and equipment. Provide
166
technical commissioning or de – commissioning of roads maintenance plant
and equipment. Verify and analyse the identified absolute and/or redundant
plant and equipment by: Analysing the maintenance file, Calculating the life to
date and compare with purchase price, Analsing the body conditions,
Availability of maintenance spares. Serve as a secretariat of Board of Survey
or disposal committee. Participate in the auctioning of plant and equipment.
Manage Mechanical Services Management Processes: Analyse plant and
equipment availability and budget utilization. Analyse reports from RT46
service providers. Enforce implementation of mechanical services processes
in the district. Enforce compliance to plant and equipment utilization.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/7627,7262.
POST 31/211 : MECHANICAL ENGINEER REF NO: S.4/3/12/2 (X3 POSTS)
Component: Education Infrastructure Delivery, Provincial Departments,
Infrastructure Delivery and (Health/ Education/Other Provincial), Portfolio
Technical Services.
Re-advert
SALARY : Grade A: R879 342 per annum, (OSD), (to be structured according to Individual
needs)
CENTRE : Head Office- Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF level 07 as recognised
by SAQA in Mechanical Engineering. 03 years post experience required in
mechanical engineering. Compulsory valid registration with ECSA as a
Professional Engineer. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants
with disabilities. Technical Competencies: Programme and project
management. Engineering design and analysis knowledge. Research and
development. Computer-aided engineering applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Creating high performance culture.
Professional judgment. Networking. Generic Competencies: Decision making,
team leadership, skills, creativity, self-management, financial management,
customer focus and responsiveness, communication, computer literacy,
planning and organizing, conflict management, problem solving and analysis
and people management.
DUTIES : Design new systems to solve practical mechanical engineering challenges and
improve efficiency and enhance safety: Plan, design, operate and maintain
mechanical engineering projects. Develop cost effective solutions according to
standards, Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard drawings and
procedures to incorporate new technology, Develop tender specifications
(mechanical), Ensure through evaluation that planning and design by others is
done according to sound engineering principles and according to norms and
standards and practice, Approve mechanical engineering works according to
prescribed norms and standards. Human capital development: Ensure training
and development of technicians, technologists and candidate engineers to
promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound engineering
principles and code of practice, Supervise the mechanical engineering work
and processes, Administer performance management and development. Office
administration and budget planning: Manage resources and prepare and
consolidate inputs for the facilitation of resource utilization, ensure adherence
to regulations and procedures for procurement and personnel administration,
Monitor and control expenditure. Report on expenditure and service delivery.
Research and development: Continuous professional development to keep up
with new technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on
mechanical engineering technology to improve expertise and Liaise with
relevant bodies/councils on mechanical engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/7627,7262.
POST 31/212 : ELECTRICAL ENGINEER REF NO: S.4/3/12/3 (X4 POSTS)
Component: Health Portfolio Technical Services, Education Infrastructure
delivery, Other Provincial Departments Portfolio Technical Services, Other
Provincial Departments Infrastructure delivery
Re-advert
SALARY : Grade A: R879 342 per annum, (OSD), (to be structured according to Individual
needs)
167
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF level 07 as recognised
by SAQA in Electrical Engineering. 03 years’ experience required in Electrical
engineering. Compulsory valid registration with Engineering Council of South
Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineer. Valid driver’s license, with the
exception of applicants with disabilities. Technical Competencies: Programme
and project management. Engineering design and analysis knowledge.
Research and development. Computer-aided engineering applications.
Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing. Creating high
performance culture. Professional judgment. Networking. Generic
Competencies: Decision making, team leadership, skills, creativity, self-
management, financial management, customer focus and responsiveness,
communication, computer literacy, planning and organizing, conflict
management, problem solving and analysis and people management.
DUTIES : Design new systems to solve practical electrical engineering challenges and
improve efficiency and enhance safety: Plan, design, operate and maintain
electrical engineering projects. Develop cost effective solutions according to
standards, Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard drawings and
procedures to incorporate new technology, Develop tender specifications
(electrical), Ensure through evaluation that planning and design by others is
done according to sound engineering principles and according to norms and
standards and practice, Approve electrical engineering works according to
prescribed norms and standards. Human capital development: Ensure training
and development of technicians, technologists and candidate engineers to
promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound engineering
principles and code of practice, Supervise the electrical engineering work and
processes, Administer performance management and development. Office
administration and budget planning: Manage resources and prepare and
consolidate inputs for the facilitation of resource utilization, ensure adherence
to regulations and procedures for procurement and personnel administration,
Monitor and control expenditure. Report on expenditure and service delivery.
Research and development: Continuous professional development to keep up
with new technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on
electrical engineering technology to improve expertise and Liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on electrical engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ and Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/ 7627,7262.
POST 31/213 : CIVIL ENGINEER REF NO: S.4/3/10/96
Component: Roads and Bridges Maintenance
Re-advert
SALARY : Grade A: R879 342 per annum (OSD), (to be structured according to Individual
needs)
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF level 07 as recognised
by SAQA in Civil Engineering. 03 years’ experience required in Civil
Engineering. Compulsory valid registration with ECSA as Professional
Engineer. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with
disabilities. Technical Competencies: Programme and project management.
Engineering design and analysis knowledge. Research and development.
Computer-aided engineering applications. Knowledge of legal compliance.
Technical report writing. Creating high performance culture. Professional
judgment. Networking. Generic Competencies: Decision making, team
leadership, analytical skills, creativity, self-management, financial
management, customer focus and responsiveness, communication, computer
literacy, planning and organizing, conflict management, problem solving and
analysis and people management.
DUTIES : Design new systems to solve practical civil engineering challenges and
improve efficiency and enhance safety: Plan, design, operate and maintain civil
engineering projects. Develop cost effective solutions according to standards,
Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard drawings and procedures to
incorporate new technology, Develop tender specifications (civil), Ensure
through evaluation that planning and design by others is done according to
sound engineering principles and according to norms and standards and
practice, Approve civil engineering works according to prescribed norms and
standards. Human capital development: Ensure training and development of
168
technicians, technologists and candidate engineers to promote
skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound engineering principles and
code of practice, Supervise the civil engineering work and processes,
Administer performance management and development. Office administration
and budget planning: Manage resources and prepare and consolidate inputs
for the facilitation of resource utilization, ensure adherence to regulations and
procedures for procurement and personnel administration, Monitor and control
expenditure. Report on expenditure and service delivery. Research and
development: Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on civil engineering
technology to improve expertise, and Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on
civil engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ and Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/ 7627,7262.
POST 31/214 : GEO-TECHNICAL ENGINEER GRADE A REF NO: S.4/3/15/4
Component: Other Provincial Departments: Infrastructure Delivery
SALARY : R879 342 per annum, (OSD), (to be structured according to Individual needs)
CENTRE : Head Office – Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF level 07 as recognised
by SAQA in Civil Engineering (Geotechnical or Materials). 03 years’ post
qualification Civil Engineering experience required. Compulsory registration
with ECSA as Civil Engineer. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of
applicants with disabilities. Technical Competencies: Programme and project
management. Engineering design and analysis knowledge. Research and
development. Computer-aided engineering applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Creating high performance culture.
Professional judgment. Networking. Generic Competencies: Decision making,
team leadership, analytical skills, creativity, self-management, financial
management, customer focus and responsiveness, communication, computer
literacy, planning and organizing, conflict management, problem solving and
analysis and people management.
DUTIES : Design new systems to solve practical civil engineering challenges and
improve efficiency and enhance safety: Plan, design, operate and maintain civil
engineering projects. Develop cost effective solutions according to standards,
evaluate existing technical manuals, standard drawings and procedures to
incorporate new technology, Develop tender specifications (civil), Ensure
through evaluation that planning and design by others is done according to
sound engineering principles and according to norms and standards and
practice, Approve civil engineering works according to prescribed norms and
standards. Human capital development: Ensure training and development of
technicians, technologists and candidate engineers to promote
skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound engineering principles and
code of practice, Supervise the civil engineering work and processes,
Administer performance management and development. Office administration
and budget planning: Manage resources and prepare and consolidate inputs
for the facilitation of resource utilization, ensure adherence to regulations and
procedures for procurement and personnel administration, Monitor and control
expenditure. Report on expenditure and service delivery. Research and
development: Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on civil engineering
technology to improve expertise and Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on
civil engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ and Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/ 7627,7262.
POST 31/215 : GIS PROFESSIONAL GRADE A REF NO: S.4/3/12/6.
Component: Education Portfolio Technical Services
SALARY : Grade A: R761 157 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF Level 07 as recognized
by SAQA in GISc. Three years of post-qualification GISc Professional
experience required. Compulsory registration with the PLATO as a
Professional GISc on appointment. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of
applicants with disabilities. Technical Competencies: Programme and project
169
management. GISc, legal and operational compliance. GIS implementation.
Standards development. GISc operational communication. Process knowledge
and skills. Maintenance skills and knowledge. Mobile equipment. Operating
skills. Systems Skills. Spatial modelling and analysis knowledge. Research and
development. GISc applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Creating high
performance culture. Technical consulting. Professional judgment.
Accountability. GENERIC Competencies: Strategic management and direction.
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making, team leadership, analytical
skills, creativity, self-management, financial management, customer focus and
responsiveness, communication and listening skills, computer literacy,
planning, organizing and execution, conflict management, language
proficiency problem solving and analysis and people management.
DUTIES : Provide GISc to support institutional decision making. Plan, coordinate and
facilitate GISc projects activities. Undertake the system requirements analysis.
Conduct the cost benefit analysis. Execute the functional requirement analysis.
Manage and supervise Benchmarking. Develop conceptual database design.
Execute high level user requirement analysis. Develop processing models and
workflow diagram. Develop, implement spatial and other standards. Determine
capacity requirements. Perform monitor and evaluate. Policy making and
institutional strategic guidance. Identify and understand underlying strategic
issues. Identify and analyse relevant strategic information. Oversee the
process of advance spatial analysis and modelling for institutional strategic
guidance. Develop and evaluate alternative strategic solutions. Recommend
the best possible policy direction. Research: Identify, Investigate and evaluate
new technologies. Advice on research viability and feasibility. Undertake
environmental scanning to understand the problems in the GISc industry and
advise accordingly. Develop appropriate plan to respond to the research
problem. Compile reports and make relevant proposals. Participate and liaise
with relevant bodies and councils on GISc matters. Project and Financial
Management: Manage human resource requirements. Draft tender documents
and terms of reference. Draft service level agreements. Determine project cost
and quality level. Develop contingency plans. Adhere to financial legislations
and regulations. Review and monitor budget to ensure that the required
financial procedures are adhered to.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ and Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/ 7627,7262.
POST 31/216 : QUANTITY SURVEYOR GRADE A REF NO: S.4/3/15/5
Component: Other Provincial Departments Portfolio Technical Services
SALARY : Grade A: R761 157 per annum, (OSD), (to be structured according to Individual
needs)
CENTRE : Head Office – Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF Level 07 as recognized
by SAQA in Quantity Survey. Three years’ Quantity Survey experience
required. Compulsory registration with SACQSP as a Professional Quantity
Survey. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities.
Technical Competencies: Programme and Project Management. Quantity
Survey, principles and methodology, research and methodologies. Research
and development. Computer- aided engineering applications. Knowledge of
legal compliances. Technical report writing. Technical consulting. Creating high
performance culture. Professional judgement. Networking. Generic
Competencies: Decision making, team leadership, analytical skills, creativity,
self-management, financial management, customer focus and
responsiveness, communication, computer literacy, planning and organizing,
conflict management, problem solving and analysis and people management.
DUTIES : Perform quantity survey activities on buildings, structures or facilities. Co –
ordinate professional team on all aspects regarding quantity survey. Ensure
adherence to quantity determination standards. Provide quantity survey advice
and technical support in the evaluation of costs. Ensure the adoption of
technical and quality strategies. Develop quantity survey related policies,
methods and practices. Provide solution on non – compliance on quantity
determination. Review the cost determination of projects and estimates
accomplished by building designers and/or sub- professional personnel.
Ensure adherence to the requirements of professional registration. Human
capital development: Mentor, train and develop candidate quantity survey and
related technical and administrative personnel to promote skills/ knowledge
170
transfer and adherence to sound architectural principles and code of practice.
Supervise quantity survey work and processes. Administer performance
management and development. Office administration and budget planning:
Manage resources, prepare and consolidate inputs for the facilitation of
resource utilisation. Ensure adherence to regulations and procedures for
procurement SCM and personnel human resource administration. Monitor and
control expenditure. Report on expenditure and service delivery. Research and
development: Keep up with new technologies and procedures.
Research/literature on quantity survey and construction material, techniques
and methods. Liaise with relevant bodies/ councils on project management.
Follow approved programme of development for registration purposes
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ and Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/ 7627,7262.
POST 31/217 : CHIEF ARTISAN GRADE A REF NO: S4/3/2/36 (X3 POSTS)
Component: Building Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R480 261 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Mopani (Building Maintenance & Carpentry services) (X2 Posts)
Vhembe (Drainage Structures)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Ten (10) years post qualification experience
required as an Artisan/Artisan Foreman. Valid driver’s license, with the
exception of applicants with disabilities. Technical Competencies: Project
management. Technical design and analysis knowledge. Research and
development. Computer aided- engineering applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Technical consulting. Generic
Competencies: Decision making, teamwork, analytical skills,2w creativity, self-
management, customer focus and responsiveness, communication, computer
literacy, planning and organizing, problem solving and analysis change
management and financial management.
DUTIES : Manage technical services: Manage technical services and support in
conjunction with Technicians/Artisans and associates in field, workshop and
technical office activities, Ensure the promotion of safety in line with statutory
and regulatory requirements, provide inputs into existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology, Ensure
quality assurance in line with specifications. Manage administrative and related
functions: Provide inputs to budgeting process, Compile and submit reports as
required. Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical operational plan,
Update database, Manage artisans and related personnel and assets.
Financial Management: Control and monitor expenditure according to budget
to ensure efficient cash flow management, Manage the commercial value add
of the discipline – related activities and services. People Management: Manage
the development, motivation and utilization of human resource for the discipline
to ensure competent knowledge base for the continued success of technical
services according to organizational needs and requirements, Manage
subordinates’ key performance areas by setting and monitoring performance
standards and taking actions to correct deviations to achieve departmental
objectives. Maintain and advance expertise: Continuous individual
development to keep up with new technologies and procedures,
Research/literature studies on technical/engineering technology to improve
expertise, Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on technical/engineering-related
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/7627,7262.
POST 31/218 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ROADS PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION REF NO:
S4/3/10/179
Component: Roads Projects Implementation
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF Level 06 as recognized
by SAQA in Project Management/ Public Management/Community
Development Studies. Three (03) years’ relevant experience. A Valid driver’s
license with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Skills And Knowledge:
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity.
Financial management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
171
Computer skills. People management. Planning and organising. Conflict
management. Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts, regulations and
frameworks. Knowledge and understanding of Roads Maintenance Manual.
Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis, development and
interpretation. PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Strategic capability and
leadership.
DUTIES : Coordinate development of EPWP Business plan: Establish steering
committee of Local Municipal Councilor, Community Development Workers
and Transformation and ensure that this committee identifies EPWP projects
to be implanted. Select projects in term of priority and suitability in line with
EPWP. Manage the design and costing of EPWP projects. Ensure the setting
up of database of potential participants for EPWP project implementation.
Arrange the advertising of projects as well as the appointment of participants.
Facilitate compliance to EPWP Guidelines. Register all planned LIC projects in
the EPWP Reporting System. Ensure the signing of employment contracts by
participants. Ensure Basic Life Skills Training for all labourers. Registration of
participants/contractors with CETA. Monitor the performance of EPWP
projects. Ensure programming of the works and strict adherence to set dates
in line with the EPWP Business plan. Insist on setting of manageable daily task
for workers in with Ministerial. Determination for EPWP projects. Ensure strict
adherence to the carrying out of activities according to specifications. Ensure
performance of tasks is done under proper supervision to ensure quality
production and application of correct approved materials. Ensure similarity in
scope of work for all districts. Ensure the application of civil construction
industry guidelines, viz general conditions of contract 2000, SABS and EPWP
Ministerial Determination. Encourage registration of participants/contractor
with standards authorities such as CIDB. Ensure the establishment of code of
best practice for EPWP. Develop projects specification and contracts for
service providers. Ensure project design is per Labour Intensive Construction
Methods. Draw up specifications and terms of reference that will govern the
operations of the projects. Provide OHSA training for participants. Ensure that
consultants appointed have CETA Accreditation and are registered with
recognized bodies controlling civil construction industry, e.g. SAICE. Confirm
validity of contract documentation drawn up by consultants with departmental
legal directorate. Facilitate community participation in the projects with the
relevant directorate. Ensure good relations and closer cooperation between the
Roads Projects Implementation Directorate, Departmental District Offices,
Cost Centers and Local Authorities through Social Facilitation. Convene and
conduct EPWP workshops and seminars during project identification on
community participation. Compile an analysis of household status of projects
participants in line with EPWP targeted demographics i.e. %women, %youth
and %disabilities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/7627,7262.
POST 31/219 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: IMMOVABLE ASSETS REGISTER REF NO:
S4/3/3/116
Component: Immovable Assets Register
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF Level 06 as recognized
by SAQA in Property Management/ Property Law/ Real Estate and Property
Valuation. Three (03) years’ experience at Supervisory level in property
management environment. A Valid driver’s license with the exception of
applicants with disabilities. Skills And Knowledge: Problem solving and
analysis. Decision making. Creativity. Financial management. Customer focus
and responsiveness. Communication Computer skills. Planning and
organising. Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts, regulations and
frameworks. Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis, development
and interpretation. Government Immovable Asset Management Act of 2007.
Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Management System. Provincial Land
Administration Act, 1998. Spatial Planning and Land Use Management Act,
2013. Property valuation. Strategic capability and leadership.
DUTIES : Provide for reconciliation of Immovable Asset Register (IAR). Reconcile IAR
with Deeds records interim and final deeds download. Reconcile IAR with
DRDLR vesting data (LAW). Reconcile IAR with Chief Surveyor General
172
Information on surveyed land. Reconcile IAR with Asset Management Plans.
Reconcile IAR with National and other provincial IAR. Align IAR with
municipality valuation rolls. Align IAR with rental register. Align IAR with rates
and taxes schedules Provide for immovable assets reporting. Update the
Tracking Templates. Capitalisation of completed projects in the IAR. Prepare
Service Delivery Improvement Plan. Prepare Quarterly Progress Reporting for
monitoring and evaluation. Prepare IAR disclosure notes for Interim and
Annual Financial Statements reporting. Coordinate Physical Verification and
Immovable Assets Valuation. Identify immovable assets which need to be
valued. Facilitate collection of the municipal valuation rolls. Request
professional valuers to value the immovable assets which are not included in
the valuation roll. Update the immovable assets values. Identify immovable
assets which need to be physically verified. Request for verification team to
verify. Update the immovable asset register. Manage and utilise resources
(human, financial, & physical) in accordance with relevant directives and
legislation. Report on the utilisation of equipment’s. Evaluate and monitor
performance and appraisal of subordinates. Provide capacity development of
subordinates. Enhance and maintain subordinates motivation and cultivate a
culture of performance management. Provide job description to subordinates.
Manage leave matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/7627,7262.
POST 31/220 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LEASE & MUNICIPAL SERVICES REF NO:
S4/3/3/97
Component: Lease & Municipal Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune district
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF Level 06 as recognized
by SAQA in Real Estate / or a qualification at NQF Level 07 as recognized by
SAQA in Property Studies. 03 years of experience at a Supervisory level in
property management environment. Valid driver’s license with the exception of
applicants with disabilities. Skills And Knowledge: Problem solving and
analysis. Decision making. Creativity. Financial management. Customer focus
and responsiveness. Communication Computer skills. Planning and
organising. Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts, regulations and
frameworks. Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis, development
and interpretation. Government Immovable Asset Management Act of 2007.
Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Management System. Provincial Land
Administration Act, 1998. Spatial Planning and Land Use Management Act,
2013.
DUTIES : Manage accommodation (residential). Develop accommodation plans.
Manage and provide accommodation in the district. Establish accommodation
allocation committee. Manage applications for accommodation. Manage and
update accommodation allocation register. Manage leases: Manage the
administration of leases. Provide lease escalation reports in terms of lease
agreements. Monitor and liaise with tenants on conditions of the lease
agreements. Manage adherence to lease agreements. Provide advice on the
terms and conditions of lease contracts Manage rentals. Manage and monitor
rental collection in terms of the lease agreements. Advice tenants on stipulated
rental fees. Facilitate stop order payments. Analyse and report on stop order
(debit order) payments. Monitor cash payments. Manage and reconcile
PERSAL payment reports against the residential accommodation register.
Manage matters pertaining to refunds and arrears rental recovery. Analyse
rental collection reports to identify defaulters and make arrangements with
defaulters. Monitor and analyse the arrear patterns. Investigate and facilitate
payment of refunds. Manage payment of rates, taxes and services: Manage
and compile rates and taxes reports. Manage and inspect property to ensure
correct billing in relation to correct land use of property. Receive invoices on
rates, taxes and services. Prepare requisitions for payment of rates and taxes.
Monitor the submission of requisitions and invoices to finance for payment
purposes. Manage the compilation of municipal services expenditure pattern
reports. Liaise with municipalities on rates and taxes. Monitor payments to
service providers. Manage property inspections: Develop property inspection
plan. Verify and identify state residential properties. Monitor the property in
terms of lease register to identify tenants vacating the residence before end of
173
contract /subletting. Monitor adherence to lease agreements. Provide property
inspections before leasing to tenants and provide report. Compile property
upkeep reports. Liaise with inspectorate for detailed property conditional
assessments. Provide resources (human, financial, & physical): Provide inputs
on planning of resources for future requirements (human, finance, equipment’s
etc.) Provide budget inputs in line with operational plan. Implement the budget
by monitoring, projecting & reporting expenditure. Set targets and monitor
performance and task completions. Report on the utilisation of equipment.
Provide staff capacity and development. Enhance and maintain employee
motivation and cultivate a culture of performance management. Manage
discipline. Provide job descriptions to subordinates. Manage leave matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/7627,7262.
POST 31/221 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT (X2 POSTS)
Component: Acquisition Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Waterberg Ref No: S.4/3/9/192
Sekhukhune districts Ref No: S.4/3/9/191
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF level 07 as recognised
by SAQA in Supply Chain Management. 03-05 years of experience at a lower
managerial level. Valid driver’s license with the exception of applicants with
disabilities. Skills And Knowledge: Problem solving and analysis. Decision
making. Creativity. Financial management. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Communication Computer skills. People Management,
Planning and organising. Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts,
regulations and frameworks. Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis,
development and interpretation. Treasury Regulations. Knowledge and
Understanding of the following: Supply chain management procedures,
Procurement procedures, Public Finance Management Act, Division of
Revenue Act, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act.
DUTIES : Manage the district demand for goods and services.: Manage the development
of the procurement plan. Facilitate the approval of procurement plan.
Communicate the procurement plan. Monitor that goods and services is
rendered according to the procurement plan. Monitor the compilation of budget
projection as per the district needs analysis. Monitor the procurement of goods
and services in line with the procurement plan. Advice on the performance of
procurement in line with the plan. Manage the acquisition of goods and
services: Provide and implement supply chain management policy, strategies
and processes. Manage the acquisition of goods and service as per the
transversal contract. Provide and consolidate requests for invitation of
quotation. Verify and advice on specifications for goods and services. Analyse
the received quotation. Issue purchase order. Provide approval of received
goods as per the specification. Provide BAC secretariat: Monitor the
implementation of guidelines for appointment of bids evaluation committee.
Facilitate the appointment of BEC members. Facilitate logistical arrangements
for BEC meetings. Provide secretariat function to the BEC. Monitor the
implementation of BEC. Provide bids evaluation: Facilitate and monitor
evaluation of bids and quotations. Develop and define processes for bids
evaluation. Monitor adherence to advertised criteria in the evaluation process.
Facilitate and verify captured information for all bids and quotations. Prepare
an evaluation report- submission. Facilitate the clearance of the successful
bidders. Customise and implement any changes on standard evaluation
criteria. Provide Suppliers database: Facilitate registration of supplier
database. Monitor and liaise with CIDB about professionals/ contractor’s
information. Monitor the process of verifying supplier and professionals.
Manage resource (Human, Financial and Equipment): Monitor and report on
the utilisation of equipment’s. Evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal
of employees. Ensure capacity and development of staff. Enhance and
maintain employee motivation and cultivate a culture of performance
management. Manage discipline. Provide job.
ENQUIRIES : For Sekhukhune district: Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ
Tel No: (015) 636 8300/8330.
For Waterberg district: Ms MD Mokonyane, Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole
Tel No: (014) 718 3000/3040/3052/3027
174
POST 31/222 : GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGIST REF NO: S.4/3/10/65
Component: Roads & Bridges
SALARY : Grade A: R453 576 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF Level 7 as recognize
by SAQA in Civil Engineering (Geotechnical or Materials). Three years’ post
qualification in Civil Engineering Technologist experience required.
Compulsory registration with ECSA as Civil Engineering Technologist. Valid
driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Technical
Competencies: Project Management. Technical designs and analysis
knowledge. Research and development. Computer-aided engineering
applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing.
Professional judgement. Networking. Generic Competencies: Decision
making, team leadership, analytical skills, creativity, self-management,
financial management, customer focus and responsiveness, communication,
computer literacy, planning and organizing, conflict management, problem
solving and analysis and people management.
DUTIES : Provide technological advisory services. Support Engineers, Technicians and
associates in field, workshop and office activities. Promote safety standards in
line with statutory and regulatory requirements; - 126 – Evaluate existing
technical manuals, standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new
technology. Solve broadly defined technological challenges through application
of proven techniques and procedures. Develop, maintain and manage current
technologies. Identify and optimize technical solutions by applying engineering
principles. Perform administrative and related functions. Compile and submit
monthly and quarterly reports. Provide inputs to the operational plan. Develop,
implement and maintain databases. Research and development. Keep up with
new technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on technical
engineering technology to improve expertise. To liaise with relevant
boards/councils on engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ and Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/ 7627,7262.
POST 31/223 : ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIST GRADE A REF NO: S.4/3/15/6
Component: Provincial Maintenance Hub
SALARY : Grade A: R453 576 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF Level 7 as recognize
by SAQA in Architecture. Three years post qualification Architectural
technologist experience required. Registration with SACAP as an Architectural
Technologist appointment. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of
applicants with disabilities. Technical Competencies: Project management.
Architectural planning. Research and development. Computer aided-
Architectural applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report
writing. Creating high performance culture. Networking and professional
judgement. Generic Competencies: Decision making, team leadership,
analytical skills, creativity, self-management, financial management, customer
focus and responsiveness, communication, computer literacy, planning and
organizing, conflict management, problem solving and analysis and people
management.
DUTIES : Provide technological advisory services. Support Architect and associates in
site surveying, preparing measured drawings of existing buildings, collecting
practical information relating to the proposed project and prepare presentation
drawings and models of the design. Detail design, landscape design and
preparation of working drawings will serve as legal instructions to the building
contractor and in the process supervise buildings to ensure that the buildings
is built according to the working drawings and other legal documents. Evaluate
existing technical manuals, standard drawings and procedures to incorporate
new technology. Solve broadly defined technological challenges through
application of proven techniques and procedures. Develop, maintain and
manage current technologies. Identify and optimise technical solutions by
applying architectural principles. Perform administrative and related functions.
Compile and submit monthly and quarterly reports. Provide inputs to the
operational plan. Develop, implement and maintain databases. Research and
development. Keep up with new technologies and procedures.
175
Research/literature on quantity survey and construction material, techniques
and methods. Liaise with relevant bodies/ councils on architectural – related
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ and Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/ 7627,7262.
POST 31/224 : ROAD WORKS SUPERINTENDENT REF NO: S.4/3/10/39
Component: Roads Infrastructure Maintenance: Roads Maintenance
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Waterberg District (Tolwe Roads Maintenance)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF Level 06 as recognized
by SAQA in Civil Engineering or Construction Management. Six (06) years road
works maintenance/Construction experience required. Valid driver’s license,
with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Technical Competencies:
Computer literacy. Planning and Organising. Good verbal and written
communication. Generic Competencies: Job knowledge, communication,
Interpersonal relations. Flexible teamwork. Accuracy. aptitude of figures.
DUTIES : Monitor the maintenance and repair of road surfaces on all surface route such
as surfacing interval, cultivert/bridge replacement, line painting, replacement of
signs, grade and resurfacing gravel on loose top roads. Develop schedules
maintenance for assets (roads, plant, equipment etc). Plan and prepare a
weekly/ monthly programme. Manage contracted services, project
management and final inspection for capital projects. Provide technical advice
on claims against the department. Monitor and check the quality of work done
by contractors/maintenance teams. Manage and develop staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MD Mokonyane, Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No: (014) 718
3000/3040/3052/3027
POST 31/225 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN GRADE A: FIRE MECHANICAL REF NO:
S.4/3/15/7
Component: Other Provincial Departments
SALARY : R391 671 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane A qualification at NQF Level 06 as recognized by
SAQA in Engineering. Three years post qualification experience Technical
required. Compulsory registration with the ECSA Professional Engineering.
Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities.
Technical Competencies: Project management. Technical design and analysis
knowledge. Research and development. Computer aided- engineering
applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing.
Technical consulting. Generic Competencies: Decision making, teamwork,
analytical skills, creativity, self-management, customer focus and
responsiveness, communication, computer literacy, planning and organizing,
problem solving, change management and people management.
DUTIES : Render technical services. Assist Engineers, Technologists and associates in
field, workshops and technical office activities. Promote safety in line with
statutory and regulatory requirements. Evaluate existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology. Produce
technical designs with specifications and submit for evaluation and approval by
the relevant authority. Perform administrative and related functions. Provide
input into the budgeting process as required. Compile and submit reports as
required. Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical/engineering
operational plan. Develop, implement and maintain databases. Supervise and
control technical and related personnel and assets. Research and
development: Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on technical
engineering technology to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ and Ms. Motsai S Tel No:
(015) 284 7570/7586/ 7627,7262.
POST 31/226 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN GRADE A: OHS REF NO: S4/3/15/8
Component: Infrastructure delivery: Other Provincial Departments
SALARY : R391 671 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
176
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF Level 06 as recognized
by SAQA in Engineering. Three years post qualification experience Technical
required. Valid driver’s license. Compulsory registration with the ECSA
Professional Engineering Technician. Valid driver’s license, with the exception
of applicants with disabilities. Technical Competencies: Project management.
Technical design and analysis knowledge. Research and development.
Computer aided- engineering applications. Knowledge of legal compliance.
Technical report writing. Technical consulting. Generic Competencies: Decision
making, teamwork, analytical skills, creativity, self-management, customer
focus and responsiveness, communication, computer literacy, planning and
organizing, problem solving, change management and people management.
DUTIES : Render technical services: Assist Engineers, Technologists and associates in
field, workshop and technical office activities. Promote safety in line with
statutory and regulatory requirements. Evaluate existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology. Produce
technical designs with specifications and submit for evaluation and approval by
the relevant authority. Perform administrative and related functions: Provide
inputs into the budgeting process as required: Compile and submit reports as
required. Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical/engineering
operational plan. Develop, implement and maintain databases. Supervise and
control technical and related personnel and assets. Research and
development: Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on technical
engineering technology to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ledwaba RE, Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ and Ms. Motsai S at Tel
No: (015) 284 7570/7586/ 7627,7262.
POST 31/227 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A REF NO: S.4/3/2/91
Component: Building Maintenance
SALARY : R382 047 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Vhembe district (Makhado building maintenance)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Five years post qualification experience as
an Artisan. Valid driver’s license with the exception of people with disabilities.
Technical Competencies: Technical analysis knowledge. Computer-aided
engineering applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report
writing. Production, process knowledge and skills. Generic Competencies:
Decision making, teamwork, analytical skills, creativity, self-management,
customer focus and responsiveness, communication, computer skills, planning
and organizing, problem solving and analysis and Conflict management.
DUTIES : Design: Supervise and produce designs according to client specifications and
within limits of production capability. Production: Produce objects with material
and equipment’s according to job specifications and recognised standards.
Quality assurance of produced objects. Maintenance: Inspect equipment
and/or facilities for technical faults. Repair equipment and facilities according
to standards. Test repair equipment and/or facilities against specifications.
Service equipment and/or facilities according to schedule. Quality assures
serviced and maintained equipment and/or facilities. Perform administrative
and related functions: Update register of maintained and repaired faults.
Provide Supply Chain Management with specification to obtain quotations and
purchase equipment and materials. Compile and submit reports as required.
Provide inputs to the operational plan. Ensure adherence to safety standards,
requirements and regulations. Human and capital resource management:
Supervise and mentor staff. Planning of resources. Scheduling work. Maintain
expertise: Continuous individual development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on
technical/engineering technology to improve expertise.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms NM Mathivha Tel No: (015) 963 3790
POST 31/228 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A REF NO: S.4/3/2/92
Component: Makhado Mechanical Workshop
SALARY : R382 047 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Vhembe district
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in Mechanical. Five years post qualification
experience as an Artisan in mechanical. Valid driver’s license with the
177
exception of people with disabilities. Technical Competencies: Technical
analysis knowledge. Computer-aided engineering applications. Knowledge of
legal compliance. Technical report writing. Production, process knowledge and
skills. Generic Competencies: Decision making, teamwork, analytical skills,
creativity, self-management, customer focus and responsiveness,
communication, computer skills, planning and organizing, problem solving and
analysis and Conflict management.
DUTIES : Design. Produce designs according to client specification and within limits of
production capability. Production. Produce objects with material and
equipment’s according to job specification and recognised standards.
Maintenance. Inspect equipment and/or facilities for technical faults. Repair
equipment and facilities according to standards. Test repair equipment and/or
facilities against specifications. Service equipment and/or facilities according
to schedule. Quality assures serviced and maintained equipment and/or
facilities. Perform administrative and related functions. Update register of
maintained and repaired faults. Provide Supply Chain Management with
specification to obtain quotations and purchase equipment and materials.
Compile and submit reports as required. Provide inputs to the operational plan.
Ensure adherence to safety standards, requirements and regulations.
Supervise and mentor staff. Maintain expertise. Continuous individual
development to keep up with new technologies and procedure. Human and
capital resource management: Supervise and mentor staff. Planning of
resources. Scheduling of work.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms NM Mathivha Tel No: (015) 963 3790
POST 31/229 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A REF NO: S.4/3/10/180
Component: Roads Infrastructure Maintenance: Drainage Structures
SALARY : R382 047 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Waterberg district
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Five (5) years post qualification experience
as an Artisan. Valid driver’s license with the exception of people with
disabilities. Technical Competencies: Technical analysis knowledge.
Computer-aided engineering applications. Knowledge of legal compliance.
Technical report writing. Production, process knowledge and skills. Generic
Competencies: Decision making, teamwork, analytical skills, creativity, self-
management, customer focus and responsiveness, communication, computer
skills, planning and organizing, problem solving and analysis and Conflict
management.
DUTIES : Design. Produce designs according to client specification and within limits of
production capability. Production. Produce objects with material and
equipment’s according to job specification and recognised standards.
Maintenance. Inspect equipment and/or facilities for technical faults. Repair
equipment and facilities according to standards. Test repair equipment and/or
facilities against specifications. Service equipment and/or facilities according
to schedule. Quality assures serviced and maintained equipment and/or
facilities. Perform administrative and related functions. Update register of
maintained and repaired faults. Provide Supply Chain Management with
specification to obtain quotations and purchase equipment and materials.
Compile and submit reports as required. Provide inputs to the operational plan.
Ensure adherence to safety standards, requirements and regulations.
Supervise and mentor staff. Maintain expertise. Continuous individual
development to keep up with new technologies and procedure. Human and
capital resource management: Supervise and mentor staff. Planning of
resources. Scheduling of work.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MD Mokonyane, Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No: (014) 718
3000/3040/3052/3027
POST 31/230 : PROPERTY INSPECTOR: LAND MANAGEMENT REF NO: S4/3/3/117
Component: Land Management
SALARY : Grade A: R325 101 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Mopani district
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF Level 06 as recognized
by SAQA in Property Management/ Property Law/Real Estate/Property
Valuation. Two (02) years’ experience in Property Management. Valid driver’s
license with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Skills And Knowledge:
178
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Creativity. Financial
management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
Computer skills. Planning and organising. Knowledge of relevant Public
Service Acts, regulations and frameworks. Knowledge and understanding of
policy analysis, development and interpretation. Government Immovable Asset
Management Act of 2007. Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Management
System. Provincial Land Administration Act, 1998. Spatial Planning and Land
Use Management Act, 2013.
DUTIES : Verify and identify state land: Verification of provincial properties through
vesting process, conduct regular inspection, provide information on the verified
and identified land. Inspect land for acquisition purposes: identify redundant
land , submit list of redundant land to Head Office, verify as to whether the land
is vested nationally, provincially and locally, assist with the implementation of
listing of properties, verify National rural legislative data in terms of land
information. Inspect land for disposal purposes: conduct land assessment for
disposal purposes, compile the report for lands status, Inspect land for
transferring land Municipalities: conduct land assessment for disposal
purposes, compile the report for lands status,
ENQUIRIES : Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075
POST 31/231 : ADMIN OFFICER: FACILITIES SERVICES REF NO: S.4/3/3/118
Component: Facilities Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Waterberg District
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 06 as recognized by SAQA in Office Administration
/Public Administration/Public Management. Two (02) years of experience in
Facilities Management. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants
with disabilities. Skills And Knowledge: Problem solving and analysis. Decision
making. Creativity. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
Computer skills. Facilitations. People management. Planning and organising.
Conflict management. Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts, regulations
and frameworks, Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis,
development and interpretation, knowledge and understanding of office
management.
DUTIES : Provide landscaping services, Implement landscaping plans for the district.
Facilitate procurement of protective clothing for the district. Provide
specifications for procurement of landscaping equipment and materials.
Facilitate repairs and servicing of landscaping equipment. Allocate
groundsman to serve the district office and cost centres. Provide cleaning
services, Implement cleaning plans for the district. Monitor budget for cleaning
services. Procure protective clothing for the district. Provide specifications for
procurement of cleaning equipment and materials. Facilitate repairs and
servicing of cleaning equipment. Facilitate the distribution of cleaning material
and chemicals for both district office and cost centre. Provide waste
management services, Implement waste management plan. Facilitate sorting
and shredding of wastepaper. Liaise with service provider with regards to
collection of packaged wastepaper. Provide resource (Human, Financial and
Equipment) Monitor and report on the utilisation of equipment’s. Evaluate and
monitor performance and appraisal of employees. Ensure capacity and
development of staff. Enhance and maintain employee motivation and cultivate
a culture of performance management. Manage discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MD Mokonyane, Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No: (014) 718
3000/3040/3052/3027
POST 31/232 : WORKS INSPECTOR: ELECTRICAL REF NO: S.4/3/2/91
Component: Building Infrastructure Maintenance: Inspectorate Services
SALARY : R269 499 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Waterberg district
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (T/N/S streams) or equivalent, or N 3 and a trade test
(Electrical Trade Diploma) in the building environment, or Registration as an
Engineering Technician, and Valid driver’s license with the exception of
applicants with disabilities. Skills And Knowledge: Project Management.
Technical analysis. Computer Literacy. Technical report writing. Production,
process knowledge and skills. Problem solving and analysis. Decision making.
Teamwork. Customer focus and responsiveness. Planning and organising. Job
179
Knowledge. Communications. Interpersonal. Flexibility. Teamwork. Computer.
Planning and organising. Language. Good verbal and written communication.
Accuracy. Flexibility. Co-operative. Team player.
DUTIES : Render a basic inspection service of work done on minor new and existing
structures on a project basis. Check if new and/or maintenance work
undertaken on project sites are following all relevant regulations and
legislation. Conduct inspections on work done, or to be done, to check that
proper quality control is maintained. Compile an estimate of repairs and costs
for minor new work and maintenance work to be undertaken. Maintain an
electronic record system for work being done and work that was finalised.
Develop progress reports on outstanding and finalised work. Analyze and
compile relevant documentation for work to be done on minor new and existing
structures, through inter alia the following: Development and interpretation of
plans and sketches. Draw-up quotation documents and compile specifications.
Participate in the adjudication process and provide recommendations on
quotations. Liaise with relevant stakeholders in respect of technical aspects.
Oversee the work of contractors through inter alia the following: Inspect the
work done by contractors to determine whether it is following all relevant
prescribed standards. Advice and guide contractors in respect of the relevant
legislation and regulations. Compile payment documents. Compile and
process variation orders and requests for the extension of deadlines. Ensure
effective contract administration. Timeous development of reports on problems
emanating from projects. Render extended public works Programme. Gather
and submit information in terms of the extended public works Programme.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MD Mokonyane, Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No: (014) 718
3000/3040/3052/3027
POST 31/233 : WORKS INSPECTOR (X5 POSTS)
Component: Building Infrastructure Maintenance: Inspectorate Services
SALARY : R269 499 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Mopani Ref No: S.4/3/2/27 (X1 Post)
Capricorn Ref No: S.4/3/2/29 (X2 Posts)
Vhembe Ref No: S.4/3/2/28 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (T/N/S streams) or equivalent, or N 3 and a trade test in the
building environment, or Registration as an Engineering Technician, and Valid
driver’s license with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Skills And
Knowledge: Project Management. Technical analysis. Computer Literacy.
Technical report writing. Production, process knowledge and skills. Problem
solving and analysis. Decision making. Teamwork. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Planning and organising. Job Knowledge. Communications.
Interpersonal. Flexibility. Teamwork. Computer. Planning and organising.
Language. Good verbal and written communication. Accuracy. Flexibility. Co-
operative. Team player.
DUTIES : Render a basic inspection service of work done on minor new and existing
structures on a project basis. Check if new and/or maintenance work
undertaken on project sites are following all relevant regulations and
legislation. Conduct inspections on work done, or to be done, to check that
proper quality control is maintained. Compile an estimate of repairs and costs
for minor new work and maintenance work to be undertaken. Maintain an
electronic record system for work being done and work that was finalised.
Develop progress reports on outstanding and finalised work. Analyse and
compile relevant documentation for work to be done on minor new and existing
structures, through inter alia the following: Development and interpretation of
plans and sketches. Draw-up quotation documents and compile specifications.
Participate in the adjudication process and provide recommendations on
quotations. Liaise with relevant stakeholders in respect of technical aspects.
Oversee the work of contractors through inter alia the following: Inspect the
work done by contractors to determine whether it is following all relevant
prescribed standards. Advice and guide contractors in respect of the relevant
legislation and regulations. Compile payment documents. Compile and
process variation orders and requests for the extension of deadlines. Ensure
effective contract administration. Timeous development of reports on problems
emanating from projects. Render extended public works Programme. Gather
and submit information in terms of the extended public works Programme.
ENQUIRIES : For Mopani district: Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811
4000/4070/4075
180
For Capricorn district: Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN and Ms K Kganakga Tel
No: (015) 287 5600
For Vhembe district: Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms NM Mathivha Tel No: (015) 963
3790.
POST 31/234 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A (X13 POSTS)
Component: Building Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R243 597 per annum, OSD
CENTRE : Capricorn: (X1 Post)
Polokwane Building Maintenance S Ref No: 4/3/2/93 (X1 Post)
Waterberg: (X4 Posts)
Thabazimbi- Plumber Ref No: S.4/3/2/94 (X1 Post)
Thabazimbi Painter Ref No: S.4/3/2/95 (X1 Post)
Thabazimbi Bricklayer Ref No: S.4/3/2/96 (X1 Post)
Bakenberg- Bricklayer Ref No: S.4/3/2/97 (X1 Post)
Vhembe: (X3 Posts)
Thohoyandou Building Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/2/98 (X1 Post)
Malamulele Building Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/2/99 (X1 Post)
Mutale Building Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/2/100 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune: (X3 Posts)
Ephraim Mogale Building Maintenance (Electrical) Ref No: S.4/3/2/101 (X2
Posts)
Nebo Building Maintenance (Carpentry Ref No: S.4/3/2/102 (X1 Post)
Mopani: (X2 Posts)
Giyani Building Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/2/103 (X1 Post)
Tzaneen Building Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/2/104 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of
applicants with disabilities. Technical Competencies: Technical analysis
knowledge. Computer-aided technical applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Production, process knowledge and skills.
Generic Competencies: Decision making, teamwork, analytical skills, creativity,
self-management, customer focus and responsiveness, communication,
computer skills, planning and organizing, problem solving and analysis and
Conflict management.
DUTIES : Design: Produce designs according to client specification and within limits of
production capability. Production: Produce objects with material and
equipment’s according to job specification and recognised standards, Quality
assurance of produced objects. Maintenance: Inspect equipment and/or
facilities for technical faults, Repair equipment and facilities according to
standards, Test repair equipment and/or facilities against specifications,
Service equipment and/or facilities according to schedule, Quality assure
serviced and maintained equipment and or facilities. Perform administrative
and related functions: Compile and submit reports, provide inputs on the
compilation of technical reports, Keep and maintain job record and other
registers, Maintain and adhere to agreed development plan, Supervise and
mentor staff. Maintain expertise: Continuous individual development to keep
up with new technologies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : For Capricorn: Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN and Ms K Kganakga Tel No:
(015) 287 5600.
For Waterberg: Ms MD Mokonyane, Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No:
(014) 718 3000/3040/3052/3027.
For Sekhukhune: Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No
(015) 636 8300/8330.
For Vhembe: Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms NM Mathivha Tel No: (015) 963 3790.
For Mopani: Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075
POST 31/235 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A (X2 POSTS)
Component: Roads Infrastructure Maintenance: Mechanical Workshop
SALARY : R243 597 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Capricorn district (Polokwane Mechanical Workshop) Ref No: S.4/3/10/181
Vhembe district (Sibasa Mechanical Workshop) Ref No: S.4/3/10/182
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate as Diesel Mechanic. Experience will be an
added advantage. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with
disabilities. Technical Competencies: Technical analysis knowledge.
Computer-aided technical applications. Knowledge of legal compliance.
181
Technical report writing. Production, process knowledge and skills. Generic
Competencies: Decision making, teamwork, analytical skills, creativity, self-
management, customer focus and responsiveness, communication, computer
skills, planning and organizing, problem solving and analysis and Conflict
management.
DUTIES : Perform services and repairs to roads related plant and equipment: - Repairs:
Receive job card. Stabilize machine or vehicle. Run the engine until warm. Turn
engine off. Drain oil into container. Re-install the drain plug. Remove filters (oil,
fuel & air filter). Examine filter debris. Install new filters. Refill oil and check for
leaks and level. Test drive. Service: Check the condition of working area for
safety. Determine problem existing. State problem in writing. Visual inspection
on machine/ vehicle (for further damage such as leaks boos bolts and cracks).
Fix the problem and re-test. Analyse the failure. List all possible causes. Run
test and record information. Eliminate and insolate. Provide civil expertise:
Carry out services as per service category and complete standards. Doing
visual and pre-checks inspection on plant before and after service/repairs is
carried out as well as the compiling of inspection sheet. Making full report of
the findings and completing job cords after competing any repair or service.
Perform per-inspection for additional defects before repairs: Dismantling. Lay-
out. Check condition of warn out parts. Repair or replace where necessary and
assemble. Clean the object/part and test it. Perform administrative and related
functions: Provide inputs on the compilation of technical reports. Keep and
maintain job record and other registers. Maintain and adhere to agreed
development plan. Perform per-inspection for additional defects before repairs:
Dismantling, Lay-out, Check condition of warn out parts, Repair or replace
where necessary and assemble, clean the object/part and test it. Perform
administrative and related functions: Provide inputs on the compilation of
technical reports, Keep and maintain job record and other registers, Maintain
and adhere to agreed development plan.
ENQUIRIES : For Capricorn: Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN and Ms K Kganakga Tel No:
(015) 287 5600.
For Vhembe: Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms NM Mathivha Tel No: (015) 963 3790.
POST 31/236 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A: (DRAINAGE STRUCTURES,
CONCRETE & SHUTTERING) REF NO: S.4/3/10/73 (X3 POSTS)
Component: Drainage structures
SALARY : R243 597 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Waterberg District
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in Bricklaying/Plumbing/Steel & shattering.
Experience will be an added advantage. Valid driver’s license, with the
exception of applicants with disabilities. Technical Competencies: Technical
analysis knowledge. Computer-aided technical applications. Knowledge of
legal compliance. Technical report writing. Production, process knowledge and
skills. Generic Competencies: Decision making, teamwork, analytical skills,
creativity, self-management, customer focus and responsiveness,
communication, computer skills, planning and organizing, problem solving and
analysis and Conflict management.
DUTIES : Design: Produce designs according to client specification and within limits of
production capability. Production: Produce objects with material and
equipment’s according to job specification and recognised standards, Quality
assurance of produced objects. Maintenance: Inspect equipment and/or
facilities for technical faults, Repair equipment and facilities according to
standards, Test repair equipment and/or facilities against specifications,
Service equipment and/or facilities according to schedule, Quality assure
serviced and maintained equipment and or facilities. Perform administrative
and related functions: Compile and submit reports, Provide inputs on the
compilation of technical reports, Keep and maintain job record and other
registers, Maintain and adhere to agreed development plan, Supervise and
mentor staff. Maintain expertise: Continuous individual development to keep
up with new technologies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MD Mokonyane, Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No: (014) 718
3000/3040/3052/3027.
182
POST 31/237 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X2 POSTS)
Component: Roads Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Vhembe district:
Malamulele Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/183
Mutale Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/184
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognized by SAQA. Valid driver’s license
with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills: Basic
knowledge of general administration duties, practices as well as the ability to
capture data, operate computer and collect statistics. Basic knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service. Basic
knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working environment.
DUTIES : Render administration clerical support of Roads maintenance: Receive
documentation for roads maintenance. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data in relation to roads maintenance. Update
registers and statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and
receive or send facsimiles. Distribute documents/packages to various
stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component. Type letters and/or other correspondence when required. Keep
and maintain the incoming and outgoing document register of the component.
Render administration clerical support on office services and accommodations.
Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in relation to procurement of
goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete procurement forms for the
purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of office stationery. Keep and
maintain the asset register of the component. Provide personnel administration
clerical support services within the component. Maintain a leave register for the
component. Keep and maintain personnel records in the component. Keep and
maintain the attendance register of the component. Forward component leave
form to corporate services. Render financial administration support services in
the component: Check correctness of subsistence and travel claims of officials
and submit to manager for approval.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms NM Mathivha Tel No: (015) 963 3790
POST 31/238 : ROAD WORKS FOREMAN (X2 POSTS)
Component: Routine Maintenance
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune district (Hoeraroep Roads Maintenance) Ref No: S.4/3/3/10/185
Waterberg (Roedtan Roads Maintenance) Ref No: S.4/3/10/186
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Three (03) years road
works maintenance experience. Valid drivers license, with the exception of
applicants with disabilities. Skills: Knowledge of relevant Acts and regulations,
road maintenance manual, roads operating machinery, health and safety
measures, roads production procedures and processes.
DUTIES : Support Road construction or maintenance work through: Construction of
culvert and side drains. Erect and maintain steel guardrail and gabions.
Construction of road earth and layer works. Clean and maintain roads,
sidewalks and resting areas. Surfacing and pothole patching. Road fencing and
pipe laying. Setting of road markings/signs. Install road signs and barricade the
work area. Supervise activities in respect of road construction or maintenance
work through: Application of safety and precautionary measures. Conduct
inspection. Exercise control over tools, supplies and other equipment. Allocate
tasks and oversee work performance. Maintenance of Equipment. Co-ordinate
the blading program.
ENQUIRIES : For Sekhukhune: Ms Makalela RC, Ms Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel
No: (015) 636 8300/8330.
For Waterberg: Ms MD Mokonyane, Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No:
(014) 718 3000/3040/3052/3027.
POST 31/239 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X2 POSTS)
Component: Building Infrastructure Maintenance: Routine Maintenance
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Vhembe district:
Thohoyandou building maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/2/105
Malamulele building maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/2/106
183
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Valid driver’s license,
with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills:
Knowledge of general administration duties, practices as well as the ability to
capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working environment. Job
knowledge. Communication. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Computer.
Language and good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Render administration clerical support of building maintenance: Receive
documentation for building maintenance, Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data in relation to building maintenance, Update
registers and statistics, Handle routine enquiries, Make photocopies and
receive or send facsimiles, Distribute documents/packages to various
stakeholders as required, Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component, Type letters and/or other correspondence when required, Keep
and maintain the incoming and outgoing document register of the component.
Render administration clerical support on office services and accommodations:
Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in relation to procurement of
goods and services, Obtain quotations, complete procurement forms for the
purchasing of standard office items, Stock control of office stationery, Keep and
maintain the asset register of the component. Render administration clerical
support of fleet services: Receive and provide GG allocation to use during and
after normal working hours, Record, organise, store, capture and retrieve
correspondence and data in relation to fleet management, Update fleet
management registers and statistics, Handle routine enquiries. Provide
personnel administration clerical support services within the component:
Maintain a leave register for the component, Keep and maintain personnel
records in the component, Keep and maintain the attendance register of the
component, Forward component leave form to corporate services. Render
financial administration support services in the component: Check correctness
of subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms NM Mathivha Tel No: (015) 963 3790
POST 31/240 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X2 POSTS)
Component: Mechanical services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Vhembe district:
Sibasa Ref No: S.4/3/2/107
Malamulele Mechanical Workshop Ref No: S.4/3/2/108
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Valid driver’s license,
with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills:
Knowledge of general administration duties, practices as well as the ability to
capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working environment. Job
knowledge. Communication. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Computer.
Language and good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Render administration clerical support of building maintenance: Receive
documentation for building maintenance, Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data in relation to building maintenance, Update
registers and statistics, Handle routine enquiries, Make photocopies and
receive or send facsimiles, Distribute documents/packages to various
stakeholders as required, Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component, Type letters and/or other correspondence when required, Keep
and maintain the incoming and outgoing document register of the component.
Render administration clerical support on office services and accommodations:
Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in relation to procurement of
goods and services, obtain quotations, complete procurement forms for the
purchasing of standard office items, Stock control of office stationery, keep and
maintain the asset register of the component. Render administration clerical
support of fleet services: Receive and provide GG allocation to use during and
after normal working hours, Record, organise, store, capture and retrieve
correspondence and data in relation to fleet management, Update fleet
management registers and statistics, handle routine enquiries. Provide
personnel administration clerical support services within the component:
Maintain a leave register for the component, keep and maintain personnel
184
records in the component, Keep and maintain the attendance register of the
component, Forward component leave form to corporate services. Render
financial administration support services in the component: Check correctness
of subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms NM Mathivha Tel No: (015) 963 3790
POST 31/241 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: S.4/3/9/182 (X3 POSTS)
Component: Finance: Acquisition Management
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune district
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognized by SAQA. Valid driver’s license
with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills:
Knowledge of general administration duties, practices as well as the ability to
capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working environment. Job
knowledge. Communication. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Computer.
Language and good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide the acquisition of goods and services: Render acquisition clerical
support. Request for quotation. Receive quotation. Place order. Issue purchase
order. Capture specification on the electronic purchasing system. Provide
supplier database: Update and maintain a supplier (including contractors)
database. Register suppliers on Logis or similar system. Provide bids: Issue
bids. Receive bids. Provide logistical support during the bid consideration and
contracts conclusion process. Compile draft documents as required. Provide
bids evaluation: Make arrangements for evaluation of bids and quotations.
Captured information for all bids and quotations. Customise changes on
standard evaluation criteria.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636
8300/8330.
POST 31/242 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: S.4/3/9/193
Component: Finance
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune district (Elias Motswaledi stores)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Valid driver’s license
with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills:
Knowledge of general administration duties, practices as well as the ability to
capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working environment. Job
knowledge. Communication. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Computer.
Language and good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Place order: Receive request of goods from the end user. Receive stock from
the supplier. Verify stock received against the invoice. Sign off the invoice for
received goods. Update and maintain register of suppliers. Capture goods in
registers databases. Receive stock into the system. Capture the received stock
into the system. Verify and update the register in line with the system stock.
Issue goods to end users. Receive request of goods from the end user (LOGIS
FORM). Issue the stores on the system. Issue the stores to end user. Receive
issuing form back from the end-user. File the issuing form.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636
8300/8330.
POST 31/243 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: S.4/3/9/181
Component: Finance: Logistics & Asset Management
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Valid driver’s license
with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills:
Knowledge of general administration duties, practices as well as the ability to
capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working environment. Job
185
knowledge. Communication. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Computer.
Language and good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Render asset management clerical support: Bar code new assets. Compile and
maintain records (e.g asset records/databases). Check and issue furniture,
equipment and accessories to components and individuals. Identify redundant,
non-serviceable and obsolete equipment for disposal. Conduct assets
verification. Update the inventory list. Order stores: Place orders for goods.
Receive and verify goods from suppliers. Capture goods in the system, or item
registers. Issue stores: Receive Logis requisition form. Check and verify the
form with the requester. Issue goods to end users. Issue goods out of the
system. Update and maintain register of suppliers. Render stock-taking
services: Count the stock level in the stores. Verify the stock against the issuing
reports. Balance the stock level.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636
8300/8330.
POST 31/244 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: S.4/3/9/119
Component: Lease and Municipal services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Waterberg district
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Valid driver’s license,
with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills:
Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data,
operate computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of
the legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working
procedures in terms of the working environment. Computer. Planning and
organising. Language. Good verbal and written communication.
DUTIES : Render administration clerical support of fleet services: Receive and provide
GG allocation to use during and after normal working hours, Record, organise,
store, capture and retrieve correspondence and data in relation to fleet
management, Update fleet management registers and statistics, Handle
routine enquiries, Make photocopies and receive or send facsimiles, Distribute
documents/packages to various stakeholders as required, Keep and maintain
the filing system for the component, Type letters and/or other correspondence
when required, Keep and maintain the incoming and outgoing document
register of the component. Render administration clerical support on office
services and accommodations: Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
in relation to procurement of goods and services, Obtain quotations, complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office items, Stock control of
office stationery, Keep and maintain the asset register of the component
(district offices). Provide personnel administration clerical support services
within the component: Maintain a leave register for the component, Keep and
maintain personnel records in the component, Keep and maintain the
attendance register of the component. Render financial administration support
services in the component: Check correctness of subsistence and travel claims
of officials and submit to manager for approval, Handle telephone accounts for
the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MD Mokonyane, Ms Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No: (014) 718
3000/3040/3052/3027
POST 31/245 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X2 POSTS)
Component: Finance: Logistics & Asset Management
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Capricorn Ref No: S.4/3/9/66
Sekhukhune Ref No: S4/3/9/195
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 4 as recognised by SAQA. Valid driver’s license
with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills:
Knowledge of general administration duties, practices as well as the ability to
capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working environment. Job
knowledge. Communication. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Computer.
Language and good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Place order: Receive request of goods from the end user. Receive stock from
the supplier. Verify stock received against the invoice. Sign off the invoice for
186
received goods. Update and maintain register of suppliers. Capture goods in
registers databases. Receive stock into the system. Capture the received stock
into the system. Verify and update the register in line with the system stock.
Issue goods to end users. Receive request of goods from the end user (LOGIS
FORM). Issue the stores on the system. Issue the stores to end user. Receive
issuing form back from the end-user. File the issuing form.
ENQUIRIES : For Capricorn: Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN and Ms K Kganakga Tel No:
(015) 287 5600.
For Sekhukhune: Ms Makalela RC, Ms Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel
No: (015) 636 8300/8330.
POST 31/246 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: S.4/3/9/194
Component: Logistics and Asset Management
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Waterberg district
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognized by SAQA. Valid driver’s license,
with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Skills And Knowledge: Job
knowledge. Communication. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Teamwork.
Technical Competencies: Computer Skills. Planning and organization.
Language. Good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Place order: receive request of goods from the end user. Receive stock from
the supplier: Verify stock received against the invoice. Sign off the invoice for
received goods. Update and maintain register of suppliers. Capture goods in
registers databases. Receive stock into the system. Capture the received stock
into the system. Verify and update the register in line with the system stock.
Issue goods to end users. Receive request of goods from the end user (LOGIS
FORM). Issue the stores on the system. Issue the stores to end user. Receive
issuing form back from the end-user. File the issuing form.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MD Mokonyane, Ms Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No: (014) 718
3000/3040/3052/3027
POST 31/247 : ACCOUNTING CLERK REF NO: S.4/3/9/39
Component: Financial Management
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Capricorn District
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognized by SAQA. Valid driver’s licence,
with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills:
Knowledge of general administration duties, practices as well as the ability to
capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working environment. Job
knowledge. Communication. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Computer.
Language and good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Process payments and accounts: Receive order from supply chain. Check for
delivering note and invoice. Compile payment voucher for EBT transfer.
Capture/ approve payment voucher on LOGIS. Receive EBT stubs. Link stubs
and invoices and dispatch copy of stubs to suppliers. File payment vouchers
according to system. Capture EPWP stipends on BAS. Provide salary: Check
authenticity of documents to be captured on PERSAL system. Capture
PERSAL transactions such as allowances, deductions, fringe benefits and IRP
deductions. Identify and specify state liabilities on pension funds. Provide
revenue. Collection of Government money. Issue receipts manual or on line
under correct allocation. Register receipts in cash book. Deposit money. Day-
end receipts on BAS. Facilitate debt Open debt file for relevant employer.
Complete BAS Debt take on and attached supporting documents for
submission to Head Office for implementation of debt on suspense account.
Close Debt files.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN and Ms K Kganakga Tel No: (015) 287 5600
POST 31/248 : PERSONNEL OFFICER REF NO: S.4/3/8/52
Component: Human Resource Management
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Capricorn district
187
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognized by SAQA. Valid driver’s license,
with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills:
Knowledge of general administration duties, practices as well as the ability to
capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working environment. Job
knowledge. Communication. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Computer.
Language and good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Render administration clerical support of recruitment services. Receive
application forms from registry and keep record thereof. Provide statistics of
received application per post. Compile scheduling of district posts. Arrange
boardroom, accommodation and transport claim for shortlisting and interviews
in the district. Capture appointment on PERSAL system. Verify qualifications
with academic institutions and other authorised bodies. Update PERSAL
system in terms of personnel qualifications. Render administration clerical
support of conditions of services. Receive notification of service termination
due to death/ resignation, retirement (normal and early retirement). Circulate
route form to relevant section for liabilities. Effect termination on the PERSAL
system upon receipt. Issue the employee benefits (pensions, housing
allowances, medical aid scheme recognition of long service awards) forms.
Verify correctness of the forms and attachments. Capture benefits. Facilitate
state guarantees. Issue the leave forms. Verify correctness of the forms and
attachments. Acknowledge the receipt of leave applications. Capture leave on
the PERSAL system. Conduct districts leave auditing. Render administration
clerical support for post establishment and HR system. Receive transfer
application letter. Verify correctness of the application and attachments. Verify
the availability of post. Capture PERSAL transaction. Compile monthly
statistics on transfers. Conduct district head count. Render administration
clerical support for district human resource development services. Create a
training/ learning programmes database according to the WSP. Make logistical
arrangements for the training programme. Liaise with personnel about the
training logistics in time. Issue and receive the course attendance form from
personnel. Capture the certificate(s) on PERSAL system. Liaise with head
office on schedule of courses to be attended. Verify the compilation of
performance management and development system documentation. Make
logistical arrangements for performance management and development
system moderation. Implement rewards on the PERSAL systems.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN and Ms K Kganakga Tel No: (015) 287 5600
POST 31/249 : FOREMAN: CLEANING AND GROUNDS (X3 POSTS)
Component: Facilities Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Waterberg District:
Thabazimbi Cost Centre Ref No: S.4/3/3/120
Bela-Bela Cost Centre Ref No: S.4/3/3/121
Modimolle District Office Ref No: S.4/3/3/122
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognized by SAQA. Core And Process
Competencies: Machine Operations. Working procedures in respect of working
environment. Basic Interpersonal relationship. Basic literacy. Organising.
Flexibility. Co-operative. Team player.
DUTIES : Supervise cleaners: Perform administrative and related functions. Provide
guidance and advice to cleaners. Develop and update the cleaning roster.
Provision and monitor of cleaning services: Oversee and monitor cleaning of:
Offices. Corridors. General kitchen. Restrooms. Elevators. Boardrooms.
Provision and monitor of grounds services: Oversee and monitor cleaning of:
Surroundings. Premises. Manage and ensure the maintenance and
replacement of cleaning materials and equipment’s: Maintain and replace
cleaning machines and equipment’s. Make a requisition and issue cleaning
materials.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MD Mokonyane, Ms Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No: (014) 718
3000/3040/3052/3027
POST 31/250 : ROAD WORKER (X24 POSTS)
Component: Roads Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
188
CENTRE : Capricorn: (X3 Posts)
Alldays Ref No: S.4/3/10/187 (X2 Posts)
Dendron Ref No: S.4/3/10/142 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune: (X11 Posts)
Drainage Structures Ref No: S.4/3/10/188 (X1 Post)
Groblersdal Roads Ref No: S.4/3/10/189 (X1 Post)
Hoeraroep Roads Ref No: S.4/3/10/135 (X2 Posts)
Mecklenburg Roads Ref No: S.4/3/10/190 (X2 Posts)
Nebo Roads Ref No: S.4/3/10/191 (X1 Post)
Tsimanyane Roads Ref No: S.4/3/10/192 (X2 Posts)
Veeplaas Roads Ref No: S.4/3/10/193 (X2 Posts)
Waterberg: (X9 Posts)
Drainage structures Ref No: S.4/3/10/194 (X2 Posts)
Mookgophong Ref No: S.4/3/10/195 (X2 Posts)
Tolwe Ref No: S.4/3/10/196 (X1 Post)
Marken Ref No: S.4/3/10/197 (X1 Post)
Roedtan Ref No: S.4/3/10/198 (X2 Posts)
Alma Ref No: S.4/3/10/199 (X1 Post)
Mopani: (X1 Post)
Drainage structure Ref No: S.4/3/10/168 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognized by SAQA. Skills And Knowledge:
Relevant Acts and regulations. Operation roads machinery. Health and safety
measures. Working procedures in respect of roads environment. Decision
making. Creativity. Communication. Planning and organizing. Flexibility. Co-
operative. Team player.
DUTIES : Construction of culvert and side drains, Erect and maintain steel guardrails and
gabions, Construction of road earth and layer works Clean and maintain roads,
sidewalks and resting areas, Surfacing and pothole patching, Road fencing and
pipe laying, Setting of road markings and road studs, Install road signs,
distance markers and barricade the work area, crushing of road material, Bush
clearing and grass cutting.
ENQUIRIES : For Capricorn: Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN and Ms K Kganakga Tel No:
(015) 287 5600
For Waterberg: Ms MD Mokonyane, Ms Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel
No: (014) 718 3000/3040/3052/3027
For Sekhukhune: Ms Makalela RC, Ms Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel
No 015 636 8300/8330. For Mopani: Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015)
811 4000/4070/4075
POST 31/251 : TRADESMAN AID (X3 POSTS)
Component: Roads Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Capricorn district: (X1 Post)
Polokwane Mechanical Workshop Ref No: S4/3/19/200 (X1 Post)
Waterberg district: (X2 Posts)
Mokopane Ref No: S.4/3/10/136 (X1 Post)
Lephalale Ref No: S.4/3/10/201(X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognized by SAQA. Skills And Knowledge:
Cleaning equipment. Safety Health and safety measures. Working procedures
in respect of work environment.
DUTIES : Perform services and repairs to roads related plant and equipment. Assist in
carrying out services as per service category and complete standards. Assist
in performing per-inspection for additional defects before repairs. Safekeeping
of machinery and tools.
ENQUIRIES : For Capricorn: Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN and Ms K Kganakga Tel No:
(015) 287 5600
For Waterberg: Ms MD Mokonyane, Ms Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel
No: (014) 718 3000/3040/3052/3027
POST 31/252 : TRADESMAN AID (X12 POSTS)
Component: Building Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Capricorn District: (X1 Post)
Polokwane building maintenance S.4/3/2/109 (X1 Post)
Waterberg: (X3 Posts)
189
Thabazimbi Ref No: S.4/3/2/65 (X2 Posts)
Bakenberg Ref No: S.4/3/2/110 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune: (X8 Posts)
Carpentry Services Ref No: S.4/3/2/62 (X2 Posts)
Thabamoopo Building Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/2/62 (X4 Posts)
Ephraim Mogale Building Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/2/111 (X1 Post)
Tubatse Building Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/2/112 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognized by SAQA. Skills And Knowledge:
Cleaning equipment. Safety. Health and safety measures. Working procedures
in respect of working environment. Basic Numeracy. Basic Interpersonal
relationship. Basic literacy. Organising.
DUTIES : Provide assistance in the maintenance of facilities, vehicles and equipment.
Repair, clean service and safekeeping of equipment and tools according to
standards.
ENQUIRIES : For Capricorn: Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN and Ms K Kganakga Tel No:
(015) 287 5600
For Waterberg: Ms MD Mokonyane, Ms Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel
No: (014) 718 3000/3040/3052/3027
For Sekhukhune: For Sekhukhune: Ms Makalela RC, Ms Mankge LJ and Mr
Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636 8300/8330
POST 31/253 : DRIVER OPERATOR (X16 POSTS)
Component: Roads Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Mopani: (X2 Posts)
Phalaborwa Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/122 (X2 Posts)
Capricorn: (X5 Posts)
Regravelling Ref No: S.4/3/10/205 (X1 Post)
Sandriver Ref No: S.4/3/10/204 (X1 Post)
Matlala Ref No: S.4/3/10/203 (X1 Post)
Lebowakgomo Ref No: S.4/3/10/202 (X1 Post)
Alldays Ref No: S.4/3/10/127 (X1 Post)
Waterberg: (X3 Posts)
Bela-Bela Ref No: S.4/3/10/206 (X1 Post)
Vaalwater Ref No: S.4/3/10/207 (X1 Post)
Dwaalboom Ref No: S.4/3/10/208 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune: (X4 Posts)
Groblersdal Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/155 (X1 Post)
Hoeraroep Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/209 (X2 Posts)
Mecklenburg Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/169 (X1 Post)
Vhembe: (X2 Posts)
Regravelling Ref No: S.4/3/10/210 (X1 Post)
Makhado Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/211 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognized by SAQA. Valid Driver’s Code
EC. Operating certificate (Grader Operator). Generic Competencies:
Communication, ability to read and write, good eyesight and Teamwork.
Technical Competencies: Operation of the equipment, physical inspection of
vehicles and interpret instructions for proper use of all controls for safe
operation of vehicles and interpret and follow operating manuals, maintenance
manuals and service charts.
DUTIES : Perform activities in respect of operation through: Operating specialized
equipment. Load and offload goods/equipment. Inspection and maintenance of
equipment and report defects. Keep log sheets of vehicles and machinery.
Application of safety and precautionary measures. Cleaning and lubrication of
machinery / equipment. Grading of gravel roads re-gravelling/shoulder
maintenance. Render driving services. Render driving services perform
activities in respect of operation through inter alia the following: Transportation
of work teams and materials/equipment’s. Detect and repair minor civil
problems on the vehicles and take steps to have it repaired (check level and
conditions of oil, fuel, tyres and water). Inspection of the vehicles/ equipment
and report defects. Complete vehicles logbook, trip authorization for the
vehicles.
ENQUIRIES : For Mopani: Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075
For Capricorn: Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN and Ms K Kganakga Tel No:
(015) 287 5600
190
For Waterberg: Ms MD Mokonyane, Ms Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel
No: (014) 718 3000/3040/3052/3027
For Sekhukhune: Ms Makalela RC, Ms Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel
No: (015) 636 8300/8330
For Vhembe: Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms NM Mathivha Tel No: (015) 963 3790
POST 31/254 : DRIVER (X2 POSTS)
Component: Building Maintenance
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Waterberg District:
Thabazimbi building maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/2/113 (X1 Post)
Mokopane building maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/2/114 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 02/Grade ten (10) / ABET / AET as recognized by
SAQA. A valid drivers license with 7 – 12 months experience. Skills And
Knowledge: Procedures to operate motor vehicle e.g. procedures to obtain trip
authorities, complete the logbooks, consumables and basic services.
Prescripts for the correct utilisation of the motor vehicle. Procedure to ensure
that the vehicle is maintained properly. Confidentiality. Flexible. Good
communication. High standard of workmanship.
DUTIES : Core driver functions: Drive light and medium motor vehicles to transport
passengers and deliver other items (mail and documents). Perform routine
maintenance on the allocated vehicle and report defects timely. Complete all
the required and prescribed records and logs books regarding the vehicle and
the goods handled.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MD Mokonyane, Ms Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No: (014) 718
3000/3040/3052/3027
POST 31/255 : GROUNDSMAN (X12 POSTS)
Component: Roads Maintenance
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Mopani (X1 Post)
Giyani Cost Centre Ref No: S.4/3/3/95 (X1 Post)
Capricorn: (X4 Posts)
Mankweng Cost Centre Ref No: S.4/3/3/126 (X2 Posts)
Molemole Cost Centre Ref No: S.4/3/3/127 (X1 Post)
Blouberg Cost Centre Ref No: S.4/3/3/128 (X1 Post)
Waterberg: (X3 Posts)
Thabazimbi Cost Centre Ref No: S.4/3/3/129 (X1 Post)
Lephalale Cost Centre Ref No: S.4/3/3/130 (X1 Post)
Modimolle Cost Centre Ref No: S.4/3/3/131 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune: (X4 Posts)
Facilities Services Ref No: S.4/3/3/99 (X3 Posts)
Fetakgomo Tubatse Ref No: S.4/3/3/99 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 02 as recognised by SAQA. Core And Process
Competencies: Knowledge of: Cleaning equipment and safety. Health and
safety measures. Working procedures in respect of working environment.
Skills: Basic Numeracy. Basic Interpersonal relationship. Basic literacy.
Organising.
DUTIES : Maintain premises and surroundings: Clean premises and surroundings.
Empty dirty bins. Maintain the garden: Watering the garden. Prune and trim
flowers and trees. Mow the grass. Remove weeds and garden refuse. Apply
insecticides. Cultivate the soil for trees and flowers. Maintain gardening
equipments and tools: Detect and report malfunctioning of gardening
equipments and tools. Repair minor defects of gardening equipments and
tools. Keep gardening materials and equipment: Cleaning of machines and
equipment’s after use. Request gardening materials.
ENQUIRIES : For Mopani: Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075,
For Capricorn: Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN and Ms K Kganakga Tel No:
(015) 287 5600.
For Waterberg: Ms MD Mokonyane, Ms Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel
No: (014) 718 3000/3040/3052/3027.
For Sekhukhune: Ms Makalela RC, Ms Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel
No: (015) 636 8300/8330.
191
POST 31/256 : CLEANER (X13 POSTS)
Component: Property and Facilities Management
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Capricorn: (X4 Posts)
Mankweng Ref No: S.4/3/3/132 (X1 Post)
Blouberg Ref No: S.4/3/3/133 (X1 Post)
Molemole Ref No: S.4/3/3/124 (X1 Post)
Polokwane Cost Centre S.4/3/3/125 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune: (X6 Posts)
Facilities Services Ref No: S.4/3/3/101 (X3 Posts)
Elias Motsoaledi Cost Centre Ref No: S.4/3/3/133 (X1 Post)
Fetakgomo Tubatse Cost Centre Ref No: S.4/3/3/134 (X1 Post)
Makhuduthamaga Cost Centre Ref No: S.4/3/3/135 (X1 Post)
Waterberg: (X3 Posts)
Thabazimbi Cost Centre Ref No: S.4/3/3/110 (X1 Post)
Lephalale Cost Centre Ref No: S.4/3/3/110 (X1 Post)
Modimolle Cost Centre Ref No: S.4/3/3/110 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 02 as recognised by SAQA.
DUTIES : Provide cleaning services: Office corridors, elevators and boardrooms. Dusting
and waxing office furniture, sweeping, scrubbing and waxing of floor, vacuum
and shampooing floors, Cleaning walls, windows and doors, emptying and
cleaning of dirty bins, collect and removing of waste papers, freshen the office
areas, Provide cleaning services: kitchen and restrooms by , clean basins,
wash and keep stock of kitchen utensils, Provide cleaning services in
restrooms, Refill hand wash liquid soap, re-place toilet papers, hand towels
and refresheners, Empty and wash waste bins, Keep and maintain cleaning
materials and equipment, Report broken cleaning machines and equipment’s,
cleaning of machines( microwares, vacuum cleaners etc.) and equipment’s
after use, request cleaning materials.
ENQUIRIES : For Capricorn: Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN and Ms K Kganakga Tel No:
(015) 287 5600
For Sekhukhune: Ms Makalela RC, Ms Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel
No: (015) 636 8300/8330
For Waterberg: Ms MD Mokonyane, Ms Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel
No: (014) 718 3000/3040/3052/3027.
192
ANNEXURE N
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
OFFICE OF THE PREMIER
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your applications, quoting the relevant reference number to:
The (A) Deputy Director-Internal HRM & D: Ms SS Monareng, Private Bag
X11291, Mbombela, 1200. Physical Address: Office of the Premier, Makhonjwa
Building, First floor, Government Boulevard, Riverside Park. Alternatively, e-
mail to: Otprecruitment@mpg.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
NOTE : The post is based in Mbombela it must be noted that this is a re-advertisement-
previous respondents are therefore welcome to re-apply The Office of the
Premier is looking for dynamic, innovative, experienced and suitable candidate
to fill the post of Head of Department: Culture, Sport and Recreation. The Office
of the Premier is an equal opportunity employer. It is our intention to promote
representativity in respect of race, youth, gender and disability through the
filling of these positions and that the candidature of persons, whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativeness, will receive
preference. Applications should be submitted in a duly completed recent Z83
form issued by the Minister for the Public Service and Administration,
accompanied by detailed Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified copies of qualifications. The minimum entry
requirement for this post, i.e. Senior Management Services (SMS) posts is a
Pre-entry Certificate that is obtainable through a course named Certificate for
entry into SMS – and the full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.All
Appointments are subject to security clearance, security vetting, employment
reference checks, qualification verification and signing of performance
agreement. Successful candidate will be required to disclose his/her financial
interests.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 31/257 : HEAD OF DEPARTMENT (HOD): CULTURE, SPORT AND RECREATION
REF NO: HOD/CSR/2025
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum (Level 15), (all-inclusive package). In addition, a 10%
Allowance is payable as Head of Department.
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate a postgraduate qualification (NQF level 8), as recognized by
SAQA. 10 years’ experience at a Senior Management level. Core and Process
Competencies include Strategic Capability and Leadership, People
Management and Empowerment, Programme Management and
Empowerment, Financial Management, Change Management, Knowledge
Management, Service Delivery Innovations, Client Orientation and Customer
Focus and Communication. In addition, the incumbent will have to be sensitive
to the political and strategic objectives of government. The ideal candidate
should have the following qualities: Strong thinking capability. Ability to lead
and align teams of senior professionals and analysts. Strong research, Sound
networking and interpersonal skills. Sound people management capabilities.
Good exposure to knowledge management ethos and practices. Proven record
of honesty and integrity as a professional/ manager. Good exposure to project
management practices and systems. Sensitivity to the political-administrative
interface, and appreciation of the policy support role within a politically led
executive decision process.
DUTIES : As an Accounting Officer for the Department of Culture, Sport and Recreation
the incumbent will be responsible for the following: Ensuring the efficient and
effective management of Culture, Sport and Recreation matters Ensuring the
promotion and preservation of diverse cultural heritage Overseeing the
facilitation of Sport Development and mass participation Overseeing the
management of Public libraries and ensure the promotion of arts and crafts
Implementing and managing the provisions of the Public Finance Management
Act (PFMA) and enforce relevant legislation with regard to the Department of
Culture, Sport and Recreation Ensuring compliance with the provisions of the
Public Service Regulations, collective agreements and other statutory
obligations by the staff of the Department Exercising delegated powers in line
193
with the Public Service Regulations Managing the financial, human and
physical resources of the Department efficiently and in accordance with
government policies. This is a contract post and the successful candidate will
be required to enter into a five-years’ employment contract and a performance
agreement with the Executive Authority. Short-listed candidates will be
subjected to a competency assessment and security Clearance.
ENQUIRIES : should be directed to the (A) Deputy Director: Internal HRM & D: Ms. SS
Monareng Tel No: (013) 766 2004
NOTE : If no correspondence is received within two months of the closing date,
applicants must accept that their applications have been unsuccessful.
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS, ROADS & TRANSPORT
Career opportunities, combined with experience and knowledge to build a future together: Suitable
qualified candidates are invited to apply for the under mentioned posts. The appointment will be made in
terms of the Public Service Act. The Department is committed to provide equal opportunities and adheres
to the affirmative action policy in line with Employment Equity Act, the SMS Handbook and all relevant
legislation applicable in the Public Service.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 31/258 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: INTEGRATED PLANNING REF NO: CD/IP/01
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate plus NQF level 7, minimum of 3 year Degree as
recognised by SAQA) in Strategic Planning/ Public Administration/ Public
Management/ Business Management plus extensive experience in the related
field of which 5 years’ experience should be at Senior Management level. A
valid driver’s license. Appointment is subject to the signing of a performance
agreement and financial disclosure. Successful completion of the Nyukela
Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by
the National School of Government available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of an appointment Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of Public Service Act, Labour Relations Act, PFMA and other
related legislations. Computer literacy, Excellent communication (verbal,
written and presentation) skills. Strong leadership and management skills and
the ability to develop a strong working team, Good interpersonal relations.
Financial management skills. Change management. Knowledge management
Service delivery innovations, Problem solving and analyses, People
management and empowerment, client orientation and customer focus. Project
management will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate strategic planning services. Monitor and evaluate departmental
performance in terms of business plan outcomes. Provide knowledge
management services. Render policy development and research services.
Manage and coordinate the implementation of diversity and transformation
programmes. Manage human and financial resources to achieve Chief
Directorate’s objectives.
ENQUIRIES Ms PN Mokhotla Tel No: (013) 766 6780
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitM@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/259 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE UTILIZATION & CAPACITY
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: D/HRUCD/ 02
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate plus NQF Level 7 (minimum of 3 year Degree as
recognised by SAQA) in Public Management / Administration / Human
Resource Management/Development plus extensive experience in the related
field of which 5 years’ experience at a Middle/Senior Managerial level. A valid
driver’s licence. Appointment is subject to the signing of a performance
agreement and financial disclosure. Successful completion of the Nyukela
Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by
the National School of Government available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of an appointment Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of Legislation governing Human Resources within Public Service
194
and SMS handbook. Knowledge of the following functional fields is critical: In-
depth understanding of dynamics of the Public Service, Government Systems
and Operations, good understanding of the PFMA, good understanding of the
Public Service Human Resource Regulatory Framework, ability to work in
cross/functional projects/teams, excellent co-ordination and project
management skills, good understanding of Government policies and initiatives
and the role of information in government decision-making, Demonstrated
strategic and operational management ability and experience, experience in
leading and managing transformation.
DUTIES : Management and monitoring of implementation of skills and capacity
development legislation. Management of learnership and internships
programmes. Management and implementation of performance management
system. Manage human and financial resources to achieve Directorate’s
objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PN Mokhotla Tel No: (013) 766 6780
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitM@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/260 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTICES & ADMINISTRATION REF
NO: D/HRPA/03
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate plus NQF Level 7 (minimum of 3 year Degree as
recognised by SAQA) in Public Management /Administration or Human
Resource Management plus relevant extensive experience in the related field
of which 5 years’ experience at a Middle/Senior Managerial level. A valid
driver’s licence. Appointment is subject to the signing of a performance
agreement and financial disclosure Successful completion of the Nyukela
Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by
the National School of Government available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of an appointment Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of Legislation governing Human Resources within Public Service
and SMS handbook. Knowledge of the following functional fields is critical: In-
depth understanding of dynamics of the Public Service, Government Systems
and Operations, good understanding of the PFMA, good understanding of the
Public Service Human Resource Regulatory Framework, ability to work in
cross/functional projects/teams, excellent co-ordination and project
management skills, good understanding of Government policies and initiatives
and the role of information in government decision-making, Demonstrated
strategic and operational management ability and experience, experience in
leading and managing transformation.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of human resource management services within the
Department. Manage the provision of human resource administration and
recruitment, selection and personnel files. Manage the condition of service and
remuneration matters. Manage auxiliary services. Participate in the
departmental policy formulation and strategy development. Ensure
implementation of prescripts i.e. directives, circulars and determinations.
Manage and ensure effective and efficient utilisation of financial, human and
physical resources of the directorate in line with applicable legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PN Mokhotla Tel No: (013) 766 6780
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitM@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/261 : DIRECTOR: GERT SIBANDE DISTRICT REF NO: D/GS/04
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Gert Sibande
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate plus NQF Level 7 (minimum of 3 year Degree as
recognised by SAQA) in Public Management / Administration / Human
Resource Management plus relevant extensive experience in the related field
of which 5 years’ experience at a Middle/Senior Managerial level. A valid
driver’s licence. Appointment is subject to the signing of a performance
agreement and financial disclosure Successful completion of the Nyukela
Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by
the National School of Government available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of an appointment. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
195
Knowledge of Legislation governing Human Resources within Public Service
and SMS handbook. Knowledge of the following functional fields is critical: In-
depth understanding of dynamics of the Public Service, Government Systems
and Operations, good understanding of the PFMA, good understanding of the
Public Service Human Resource Regulatory Framework, ability to work in
cross/functional projects/teams, excellent co-ordination and project
management skills, good understanding of Government policies and initiatives
and the role of information in government decision-making, Demonstrated
strategic and operational management ability and experience, experience in
leading and managing transformation.
DUTIES : Manage all administrative aspects in the district. Provide strategic leadership
within the district. Render the maintenance public infrastructure (i.e. Public
Works building, Roads maintenance services, EPWP and Immovable Assets).
Manage the implementation of capital projects. Manage district transport
management services. Ensure compliance with National policy frameworks
and standards. Report and participate in all appropriate provincial,
departmental and other structures and processes. Manage and ensure
effective and efficient utilisation of financial, human and physical resources of
the directorate in line with applicable legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PN Mokhotla Tel No: (013) 766 6780
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitM@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/262 : DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING (ROADS) REF NO: D/RIP/05
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate plus NQF Level 7 (minimum of 3 year Degree as
recognised by SAQA) in Civil Engineering or equivalent with relevant extensive
experience in the related field of roads maintenance of which 5 years’
experience at a Middle/Senior Managerial level. Appointment is subject to the
signing of a performance agreement and financial disclosure The requirements
for appointment. Registration with the relevant Council will be an added
advantage. A valid driver’s licence Successful completion of the Nyukela Public
Service Senior Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by the
National School of Government available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of an appointment. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of Public Service Act, PFMA and other related legislations. Skills in
roads maintenance or construction. Computer literacy Excellent
communication (verbal, written and presentation) skills. Strong leadership and
management skills and the ability to develop a strong working team, Good
interpersonal relations, financial management skills. Change management.
Knowledge management Service delivery innovations. Problem solving and
analyses. People management and empowerment. Client orientation and
customer focus, Project management will be an added advantage. Report
writing.
DUTIES : Develop, review and update plans for Transport infrastructure development
and preservation. Develop and maintain efficient infrastructure information,
assessment and decision support systems that can inform strategic and project
level priorities and decision making in accordance with National guidelines
such as the DORA requirements for the PRMG. Compile the annual
Operational Plan, -budget and related documents for Road Infrastructure,
perform monthly evaluation and reporting and recommend corrective
measures where applicable. Ensure that the roads and road reserves are well
protected in compliance with the provincial legislative framework (Ordinance
22 of 1957 as amended and Act 21 of 1940 - Roads and Ribbon Development
Act). Ensure efficient administrative and accounting support services to
facilitate compliance with legislative frameworks and agreed service standards
of the roads programme. Liaise with road users at various levels, including
District and Local Municipalities and local farmers and businesses, analyse
Local and District road plans and obtain external inputs into the Departmental
road plans.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PN Mokhotla Tel No: (013) 766 6780
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitM@mpg.gov.za
196
OTHER POSTS
POST 31/263 : CHIEF ENGINEER PRODUCTION A (BUILDING) REF NO: CEPA BM/HO/77
SALARY : R1 266 450 per annum, (all-inclusive package), (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate plus NQF Level 7 in Bsc or BEng Degree (minimum of 3
year Degree as recognised by SAQA) in Civil Engineering or related built
environment field. Registration with South African Council for the Engineer
Profession (ECSA) as a Professional: Engineer/Technologist is compulsory.
Valid drivers’ licence and computer literacy are essential. A relevant work
experience as an Engineer, of which 3 years should be post registration.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Sound knowledge of the planning,
design, implementation, and maintenance of building infrastructure in the
public sector. Expertise in interpreting and applying relevant legislative and
regulatory frameworks, including the PFMA, Treasury Regulations, CIDB Act,
GIAMA, Construction Regulations, and the National Building Regulations
(NBR). Proven experience in infrastructure procurement, contract
documentation, and administration (JBCC, GCC, FIDIC). Familiarity with
infrastructure delivery tools and systems, such as the Infrastructure Delivery
Management System (IDMS), Integrated Planning Framework (IPMP/IPIP),
and the Infrastructure Procurement and Delivery Management (IPDM) Toolkit.
Ability to provide technical guidance on lifecycle costing, building standards,
value engineering, and sustainable infrastructure design. Strong project and
programme management capabilities, including performance monitoring and
reporting. Proficiency in engineering design software (AutoCAD, Revit, Prokon,
Civil Designer) and MS Office Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, MS Project).
Excellent interpersonal, analytical, report-writing, negotiation, and
communication skills.
DUTIES : Lead and coordinate the planning, design, and implementation of public
building infrastructure projects in line with national norms and standards.
Develop, review, and monitor Infrastructure Programme Management Plans
(IPMP) and Infrastructure Programme Implementation Plans (IPIP) for client
departments. Provide strategic and technical input into project scoping,
feasibility assessments, and spatial planning for vertical infrastructure.
Standardise and enforce design norms, specifications, and quality assurance
processes across all infrastructure projects. Validate infrastructure business
cases and technical reports submitted for funding approval. Compile
infrastructure performance reports, expenditure updates, and risk mitigation
plans in accordance with DORA, PFMA, and National Treasury reporting
frameworks. Oversee procurement planning, bid evaluations, and contract
award processes in collaboration with Supply Chain Management (SCM).
Ensure that all infrastructure projects comply with applicable legislation,
including safety, environmental, heritage, and energy efficiency regulations.
Provide mentorship and professional guidance to junior engineers,
technologists, and project managers within the department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PN Mokhotla Tel No: (013) 766 6780
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitM@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/264 : CHIEF QUANTITY SURVEYOR GRADE A REF NO: CQS/HO/76
SALARY : R1 099 488 per annum, (all inclusive), (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate plus NQF level 7 in Quantity surveying (minimum 3 year
Degree as recognised by SAQA). Registration as a Professional Quantity
Surveyor with the South African Council for the Quantity Surveying Profession
(SACQSP) in terms of the Quantity Surveying Profession Act, 2000 (Act No.
49 of 2000) is compulsory. A relevant work experience as a quantity surveyor,
of which 3 years should be post registration. A valid driver’s licence.
Knowledge, Skills and competencies: Sound knowledge of construction
legislation, regulations, and frameworks applicable in the public sector,
including the PFMA, Treasury Regulations, CIDB Act, GIAMA, Construction
Regulations, and National Building Regulations. Proficiency in quantity
surveying software such as WinQS, as well as AutoCAD, MS Project, and
Microsoft Office Suite. In-depth knowledge of cost planning, contract
administration (JBCC, NEC, GCC), building cost norms, and lifecycle costing.
Analytical, planning, problem-solving, and report-writing skills. Strong
197
interpersonal, verbal, and written communication skills. Ability to manage
multidisciplinary teams and multiple infrastructure projects simultaneously.
DUTIES : Provide professional quantity surveying and cost management services to
client departments and regional offices. Ensure financial control, value
engineering, and cost optimisation in the delivery of infrastructure projects.
Evaluate, appoint, and monitor the performance of consultants and contractors
in compliance with departmental policies. Manage the implementation and
monitoring of construction contracts, including certification of payments and
resolution of contractual claims. Conduct feasibility studies, develop cost
estimates, and maintain accurate project budgets and cash flows. Undertake
research and implement new methods, technologies, and sustainable solutions
in infrastructure delivery. Ensure alignment with the Infrastructure Delivery
Management System (IDMS), Infrastructure Procurement and Delivery
Management (IPDM) toolkit, and relevant prescripts. Provide technical support
in the preparation of tender documentation, bid evaluations, and adjudication
processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PN Mokhotla Tel No: (013) 766 6780
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitM@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/265 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DDPD/HO/78
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus NQF Level 7 (minimum of 3 years Degree as recognised by
SAQA) in Property Law/ Town & Regional Planning/ Built environment/
Immovable Asset Management. A relevant work experience in immovable
asset management whereby a minimum 3 years should be at Assistant Director
level. Valid drivers’ licence and computer literacy are essential. Knowledge,
Skills and Competencies: Public Service Act (PSA) and Regulation, (PSR).
Public Financial Management Act (PFMA). Project Management. Immovable
Asset Management. Government-Wide Immovable Asset Management Act
(GIAMA). Supply Chain Management, Preferential Procurement Policy
Framework Act (PPPFA). Employment Equity Act (EEA). Basic Conditions of
Employment (BCEA). Occupational Health & Safety Act (OHASA). Skills:
Financial Management. Understanding of Surveyor General’s diagrams, title
deeds, deeds office searches, Land ownership, Vesting of Land, Section 42
transfers Municipal Valuation roles, and asset values. Analytical thinking.
Problem Solving. Project Management. Presentation. Planning and
Organising. Communication (verbal and written). Computer literacy. Report
Writing.
DUTIES : Management of Provincial Immovable Asset Register. Verification of ownership
of property. Management of asset systems, policies, perform strategic and
annual physical asset management planning. Monitor and review the capturing
of all immovable assets in asset management system/registers. Monitor and
review the allocation of assets to User Departments. Oversee and review the
monitoring of assets in accordance with the relevant policy and procedures.
Inform, guide and advise User Departments on asset management matters to
promote implementation of sound asset management practices. Preparation of
Annual Financial Statements, Identification of property requiring survey and
appointment of land surveyors. Management of risks, budget, expenditure,
human resources, strategic planning, audit issues.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PN Mokhotla Tel No: (013) 766 6780
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitM@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/266 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TRANSFORMATION REF NO: DDT/HO/06
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate plus NQF Level 7 (minimum of 3 year Degree as
recognised by SAQA) in Public Management, Public Administration/ Human
Resources Management/ Social Science/ Developmental studies with relevant
work experience in the related field, of which 3 years’ should be in an Assistant
Director level in Transformation Programmes. A valid driver’s licence.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of Public Service Act, PFMA
and other related legislations. Computer literacy Excellent communication
(verbal, written and presentation) skills. Strong leadership and management
skills and the ability to develop a strong working team. Knowledge and
198
management of service delivery innovations. Project management will be an
added advantage. Report writing.
DUTIES : Manage, coordinate, advise on and support the implementation of
transformation programs activities. Advice on translating government targets
into departmental specific targets. Development and management of service
standards, service delivery charter and service delivery improvement
programme. Management and development of change management
programmes. Manage and ensure effective and efficient utilisation of financial,
human and physical resources of the directorate in line with applicable
legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PN Mokhotla Tel No: (013) 766 6780
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitM@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/267 : CONTROL TRANSPORT INSPECTOR REF NO: CTI/THU/08
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Thulamahashe
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate, Traffic Officers Diploma plus NQF Level 7 (minimum of 3
year Degree as recognised by SAQA) in Transport Management with relevant
work experience in the related field of which 3 years’ experience should be at
Chief Transport Inspector level. Valid drivers’ licence and computer literacy are
essential. No criminal record. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Thorough
knowledge of prescripts applicable in the Public Service and Traffic or Road
Transport Management Environment. Good communication skills both verbal
and written at all levels. Computer literacy with excellent knowledge of MS
Word, PowerPoint, Outlook and Excel. Sound presentation, problem solving
and report writing abilities. Project management, people management, crowd
management, conflict management and good interpersonal relations. The
ability to work under pressure and willingness to work long hours.
DUTIES : Coordinate law enforcement management in the district. Coordinate
stakeholder relations with municipalities and Law Enforcement Agencies
(LEAs). Manage the implementation of public law operations and gathering of
statistics. Develop a monitoring mechanism for law enforcement operations.
Develop new strategies and models to improve service delivery. Management
of law enforcement officials and financial resources. Coordination of reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PN Mokhotla Tel No: (013) 766 6780
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitM@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/268 : ENGINEER PRODUCTION A: CIVIL (BUILDING MAINTENANCE) REF NO:
EPA BM/HO/07
SALARY : R879 342 per annum, (all-inclusive package), (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate plus NQF Level 7 in Bsc or BEng Degree Civil Engineering
(minimum of 3 year Degree as recognised by SAQA). Compulsory Registration
with South African Council for the Engineer Profession (ECSA) as a
Professional: Engineer/ Technologist. Valid drivers’ licence and proficiency in
computer applications are essential. A relevant work experience as an
Engineer, with at least 2 years being post-registration. Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies: Sound knowledge of the planning, implementation, and
management of building maintenance and refurbishment projects in the public
sector. Familiarity with relevant legislation, policies, and regulations including
the PFMA, GIAMA, CIDB Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act, and
National Building Regulations. Experience in contract documentation,
procurement processes, and administration (JBCC, GCC, or similar).
Understanding of building condition assessments, life cycle costing, and
facilities maintenance management systems. Good knowledge of engineering
and maintenance planning software (e.g., Civil Designer, Prokon, AutoCAD).
Advanced proficiency in MS Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint) and project
tracking tools. Strong written and verbal communication, negotiation, planning,
and organisational skills. Ability to manage contractors and service providers
on site and coordinate multiple maintenance teams.
DUTIES : Provide professional engineering support for the delivery of planned, routine,
and emergency maintenance of government buildings and facilities. Support
the development, implementation, and review of the Comprehensive Asset
Management Plan (CAMP) and maintenance strategies aligned to GIAMA and
departmental priorities. Develop and monitor annual maintenance plans and
199
budgets, including day-to-day, preventative, and emergency maintenance.
Coordinate the procurement and performance management of framework
contracts for general maintenance and specialist services in collaboration with
Supply Chain Management. Oversee maintenance activities across district
offices, ensuring compliance with specifications, standards, and quality
assurance protocols. Manage and report on maintenance backlogs, call centre
requests, and resolution of infrastructure faults logged by users. Conduct
technical evaluations, building condition assessments, and implement
corrective actions where required. Prepare technical and performance reports,
assist in budgeting processes, and contribute to infrastructure reporting to
oversight bodies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PN Mokhotla Tel No: (013) 766 6780
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitM@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/269 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SECURITY MANAGEMENT (NKANGALA
DISTRICT) REF NO: ADSM/KW/09
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : KwaMhlanga
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate plus NQF Level 6 (minimum of 3 year National Diploma
as recognised by SAQA) in Security Management/Policing. Professional
registration with PSIRA Grade A, with relevant work experience in the related
field of which 3 years’ experience should be a Security Officer level, No criminal
record. Valid drivers’ licence and computer literacy are essential. Knowledge,
Skills and Competencies: Thorough knowledge of relevant prescripts
applicable to public service. Good communication skills both verbal and written
at all levels. Computer literacy especially Microsoft Excel. Sound Presentation
Skills, Problem Solving, Business Report. Influencing and Networking,
Planning and Organising, Strong Analytical Skills and Facilitation Skills.
Records Management and Security Management. Knowledge in security
organisation and administration, physical, personnel, information and ICT
security. Knowledge of investigation processes. Knowledge of public service
legislation and regulations is essential.
DUTIES : Manage the coordination of all security aspects (administration, physical,
information, personnel and ICT) in line with MISS and MPSS. Develop security
policies, frameworks, security plan and standard operating procedures.
Develop a departmental vetting strategy and investigations for security
clearance. Liaise with SAPS and SSA regarding all incidents or suspected
incidents of security breaches and information leakages. Conduct Threat Risk
Assessment (TRA) and recommend mitigating strategies/actions against
identified security threats. Develop and implement departmental events
management procedures. Liaise with SAPS on issues involving criminal
activities within the Conduct security training sessions for staff and advice
management on security matters. Oversee the monitoring and evaluation of
security compliance, performance of outsourced security service providers and
adherence to SLAs. Management of personnel and financial resources.
Coordination of reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SI Mazibuko Tel No: (013) 766 6961
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitS@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/270 : CHIEF ARTISAN GRADE A (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R480 261 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Emalahleni Hospital Ref No: CAG/EM/54
Dr JS Moroka Ref No: CAG/JS/55
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate, appropriate trade test certificate, National Diploma in
Building and work experience of which 3 years should be at an Artisan
Foreman level. Candidates must be willing to work overtime and standby. A
valid drivers licence Knowledge, skills & competencies: Knowledge of
government prescripts governing the Public Service. Managerial skills,
communication skills, problem solving, planning, leading, organizing, decision
making and computer literacy.
DUTIES : Ensure the maintenance of building, ensure the management of minor projects,
and manage the supply of steam in Provincial hospitals within the district,
manage the sectional budget and manage staff. Manage technical services
and support in conjunction with Artisan and associates in field, workshop and
technical Office activities. Ensure the promotion of safety in line with statutory
200
and Regulatory requirements. Provide inputs into existing manuals, standards
drawing and procedures to incorporate new technology and ensure Quality
assurance in line with specification. Compile and submit report as required.
Manage Artisans and related personnel and asset. Control and monitor
expenditure according to budget to ensure efficient cash flow management.
Manage subordinates. Liaise with relevant Bodies on technical and related
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PN Mokhotla Tel No: (013) 766 6780
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitS@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/271 : CHIEF WORKS INSPECTOR REF NO: CWI/EH/10
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus NQF Level 6 (minimum of 3 year National Diploma as
recognised by SAQA) in Electrical Engineering with work experience in the
related field (built environment) of which 3 years’ experience should be at a
Senior Works Inspector level. Valid drivers’ licence and computer literacy are
essential. Knowledge, Skills & Competencies: Strong knowledge of relevant
legislation, regulations and standards as well as excellent communication,
interpersonal and problem-solving skills are essential. Able to work
independently. Professional. Confidential. Quality-driven. Team player. Ability
to work under pressure. Decisive. Strategic. Innovative. Attention to detail.
Negotiation skills.
DUTIES : Conduct inspections on new and existing Government buildings/ clinics/
hospitals. Draw up specifications. Develop a bill of quantiles. Develop proposal
on the associated costs. Compile an estimate of repairs and costs for minor
new work and maintenance work to be undertaken. Develop and interpret plans
and sketches. Adjudicate and provide recommendations on quotations and
bids. Manage projects and compile payment certificates and technical reports.
Ensure maintenance done by contractors. Manage staff and supervising duties
of works inspectors. Liaise with relevant stakeholders in respect of technical
aspects, Advice and guide contracts in respect of compliance to legislation and
procedures. Ensure quality control and effective and efficient workflow of work
done by Works Inspectors and report on all work allocated. Manage budget of
the section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SI Mazibuko Tel No: (013) 766 6961
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitS@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/272 : LABOUR RELATIONS OFFICER REF NO: LRO/GS/16
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Nkangala District
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 qualification and a NQF Level 6 qualification (a minimum of a 3-
year National Diploma recognized by SAQA) in Labour Relations/ Bcom in Law.
A minimum of 3 years’ experience in Labour Relations matters is required. An
LLB qualification will be an added advantage. Valid drivers’ licence and
computer literacy are essential Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of prescripts and systems applicable in the Public Service and
Labour Relations Environment. Computer literacy, report writing skills, problem
solving abilities, conflict management and good interpersonal relations. The
ability to work under pressure and willingness to work long hours.
DUTIES : Handling of matters pertaining to misconduct. Provide advice to management,
employees and organised labour. Investigate grievances and disputes.
Arrange grievance hearings and disciplinary hearings. Manage a database of
grievances and dispute related matters. Write reports and provide statistics.
Implementation of the disciplinary code and procedures. Coordinate training of
employees on labour relations. Facilitate mandates for conciliations and
arbitrations. Strike management. Manage the resources of the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SI Mazibuko Tel No: (013) 766 6961
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitS@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/273 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A: GMT REF NO: AFA/GMT/M/56
SALARY : R382 047 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District Office
201
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate plus appropriate Trade Test certificate and 3 years work
experience as an Artisan. Candidates must have a valid driver’s license and
willing to work overtime and standby. Computer literacy will be an added
advantage. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Technical analysis
knowledge, Computer aided technical applications, Knowledge of legal
compliance and Technical Reports. Problem solving and analysis, Decision
making, Planning and organizing, Listening and communication skills, good
interpersonal relations. Candidates must be willing to work hard and under
pressure.
DUTIES : Administer maintenance and repair of vehicles. Render breakdown services,
accidents and control of workshop. Repairs and maintenance of light and
heavy vehicle as well as plant and equipment. Inspect equipment and facilities
for technical faults. Repair equipment and facilities according to standards.
Service equipment and facilities according to schedules. Compile and submit
reports. Provide inputs to the operation plan. Keep and maintain job record and
supervise and mentor staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PN Mokhotla Tel No: (013) 766 6780
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitS@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/274 : SENIOR TRANSPORT INSPECTOR REF NO: SPI/NKA/11
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Nkangala District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and Basic Traffic Diploma in law enforcement plus 3 years as a
Transport Inspector. A valid driver’s license and no criminal record. Knowledge,
Skills and Competencies: Knowledge in Programmes and Project
Management. Extensive knowledge of the National Land Transport Act (NLTA)
5 of 2009 and the National Road Traffic Act 93 of 1996 and other relevant
prescripts and government policies. Must be willing to travel extensively and
work shifts. Successful candidates will be sent for police clearance.
DUTIES : Enforce Public Passenger and Transport Legislation, Implement planned and
approved law enforcement activities. Issue notice and execute arrests under
relevant Acts. Directives and procedures and attend court proceedings and
give evidence. Participate in roadblocks and special law enforcement
Operations. Patrolling of roads in dedicated area and warn motorists at
hazardous locations (i.e. damage road surfaces, breakdown of vehicle) be
willing to travel extensively and work shifts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SI Mazibuko Tel No: (013) 766 6961
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitS@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/275 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: SALARIES REF NO: SASBOH/12
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus NQF Level 6 (minimum of 3 year National Diploma as
recognised by SAQA) in Financial Management / Financial Accounting plus 3
years’ experience in finance (salaries). Valid drivers’ licence and computer
literacy are essential Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of
PFMA, Treasury Regulations, BAS, LOGIS, Computer literacy. Computer
literacy, communication skills, financial management skills and good
interpersonal relations. The ability to work under pressure and willingness to
work long hours.
DUTIES : Payroll administration. Administer Claims (S&T, overtime, cell phone). Verify
and authorize claims on PERSAL. Administer a commitments’ register for the
district. Process payments of goods and services. Perform administrative
related activities within the sub-directorate. Prepare reports and assist with
related supply chain logistics. Keep sectional records.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SI Mazibuko Tel No: (013) 766 6961
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitS@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/276 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN
MANAGEMENT (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Nkangala District Office Ref No: PAOSCM/NK/13
Bohlabela District Office Ref No: PAOSCM/BD/14
Head Office Ref No: PAOSCM/HO/15
202
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus NQF Level 6 (minimum of 3 year National Diploma as
recognised by SAQA) in Supply Chain Management/Procurement plus 3 years’
relevant experience in Supply Chain Management/Procurement of Goods and
Services. Knowledge, skills and Competencies: Understanding of the
Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act, No 5 of 2000 and its
associated regulations and applicable financial management legislations and
prescripts (i.e.) PFMA, Treasury Regulations, BBBEEA etc.) Understanding of
LOGIS and BAS system. Verbal and written communication skills. Computer
Literacy.
DUTIES : Compile and capture requisitions on LOGIS, Check the accuracy of
transactions information on requisitions prior approval. Approve requisitions
and authorize orders on LOGIS. Manage vendor performance. Expediting of
orders. Manage Labour saving devices and Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SI Mazibuko Tel No: (013) 766 6961
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitS@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/277 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: BETHAL REF NO: PPR/B/17
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bethal Cost Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus NQF Level 6 (minimum of 3 year National Diploma as
recognised by SAQA) in Human Resources Management/Public
Management/Administration/Industrial Psychology plus 3 years’ experience in
Human Resource. Valid drivers’ licence and computer literacy are essential.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Thorough knowledge of relevant
prescripts applicable to public service. Good communication skills both verbal
and written at all levels. Computer literacy especially Microsoft Excel. Sound
Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Business Report. Influencing and
Networking, Planning and Organising, Strong Analytical Skills and Facilitation
Skills. Records Management.
DUTIES : Facilitate recruitment, selection and appointment of staff. Maintain the regional
establishment. Handle promotions, change of rank and transfers. Handle
resettlement and relocation matters. Keep sectional records. Supervise staff.
Advice staff on HR related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SI Mazibuko Tel No: (013) 766 6961
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitS@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/278 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: LICENSING REF NO: AOR/HO/18
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus NQF Level 6 (minimum of 3 year National Diploma as
recognised by SAQA) in Public Administration / Management / Transport
Management plus 3 years’ experience in Transport Management. Valid drivers’
licence and computer literacy are essential Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies: Thorough knowledge of prescripts applicable in the Public
Service and Public Transport Environment. Computer literacy, communication
skills, records management skills and good interpersonal relations. The ability
to work under pressure and willingness to work long hours.
DUTIES : Receive, capture, and verify applications in accordance the Operating License
Administration System (OLAS) and internal procedures. Maintain accurate
manual and electronic filing systems for secure storage and easy retrieval.
Prepare documents for meetings, take minutes, and follow up on resolutions
and action items. Liaise with stakeholders, applicants, and the public to provide
information and resolve queries. Compile reports, correspondence, notices,
and internal communications. Assist with data entry, document control, and
general office administration, Help the adjudication process by keeping
minutes and providing logistical assistance for committee meetings. Help with
route registration and confirmation, making sure that it complies with Integrated
Transport Plans (ITPs).
ENQUIRIES : Mr SI Mazibuko Tel No: (013) 766 6961
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitS@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/279 : ARTISAN: PLANT & EQUIPMENT REF NO: APE/JS/57
SALARY : R243 597 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Dr JS Moroka Cost Centre
203
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate plus appropriate Trade Test certificate (Mechanical) An
experience as a Tradesman Aid will be an added advantage. The candidate
must be willing to work overtime and be on standby. A valid driver’s license.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Technical analysis knowledge.
Computer aided technical applications. Knowledge of Occupational Health and
Safety Act. Problem solving skills. Good interpersonal relations. The ability to
work under pressure and willingness to work long hours.
DUTIES : Produce objects with material and equipment according to the job specification
and recognized standards. Quality Assurance of production objects. Inspect
equipment and facilities for technical faults. Repair equipment and facilities
according to standard Service equipment and facilities according to schedules.
Compile and submit reports. Provide inputs to the operation plan. Keep and
maintain job records. Supervise and mentor staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PN Mokhotla Tel No: (013) 766 6780
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitS@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/280 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A: BRICKLAYER REF NO: APB/VB/58
SALARY : R243 597 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Dr JS Moroka Cost Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate plus appropriate Trade Test certificate (Bricklayer)An
experience as a Tradesman Aid will be an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license. Willingness to Work. Overtime and standby. A valid driver’s license.
Knowledge, skills, and Competencies required Knowledge of Legislative
prescripts governing the Public Service, computer literacy, verbal and written
communication skills.
DUTIES : Execute and carry out bricklaying maintenance of departmental infrastructure.
Execute and manage bricklaying maintenance of client departmental
infrastructure. Manage staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PN Mokhotla Tel No: (013) 766 6780
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitS@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/281 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A: PLUMBER (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R243 597 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Msukalikwa Cost Centre Ref No: APGP/ MSU/60 (X2 Posts)
Siyabuswa Cost Center Ref No: APGP/S/61 (X1 Post)
Emalahleni Hospital Ref No: APGP/EM/62 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate plus appropriate Trade Test certificate (plumbing) An
experience as a Tradesman Aid will be an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license. The candidate must be. Willing to work Overtime and be on standby.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Technical analysis knowledge,
Computer aided technical applications, Knowledge of legal compliance
Technical Reports. Problem solving and analysis, Decision making, Planning
and organizing, Listening and communication skills, good interpersonal
relations. Candidates must be willing to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Execute and manage plumbing maintenance of department infrastructure.
Produce objects with material and equipment According to the job specification
and recognized standards. Quality assurance of production objects. Inspect
equipment and facilities for Technical Faults. Repair equipment and facilities
according to standards Service equipment and facilities according to
schedules. Compile and submit reports. Provide inputs to the operation plan.
Keep and maintain job record and supervise and mentor staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PN Mokhotla Tel No: (013) 766 6780
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitSD@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/282 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A: PAINTER REF NO: APGP/AC/63
SALARY : R243 597 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Acornhoek Cost Center
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate plus appropriate Trade Test certificate (Painter)An
experience as a Tradesman Aid will be an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license will be an added advantage. The candidate must be willing to work
overtime and be on standby. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Technical
analysis knowledge, Computer aided technical applications, Knowledge of
legal compliance Technical Reports. Problem solving and analysis, Decision
204
making, Planning and organizing, Listening and communication skills, good
interpersonal relations Candidates to be healthy.
DUTIES : Execute and manage painting services of department infrastructure. Produce
objects with material and equipment according to the job specification and
recognized standards. Quality Assurance of production objects. Inspect
equipment and facilities for technical faults. Repair equipment and facilities
according to standard Service equipment and facilities according to schedules.
Compile and submit reports. Provide inputs to the operation plan. Keep and
Maintain job record and Supervise and mentor staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PN Mokhotla Tel No: (013) 766 6780
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitSD@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/283 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A: ELECTRICAL REF NO: AGP/BH/64
SALARY : R243 597 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Belfast Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate plus appropriate Trade Test certificate (Electrical) An
experience as a Tradesman Aid will be an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license. The candidate must be willing to work overtime and be on standby.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Technical analysis knowledge,
Computer aided technical applications, Knowledge of legal compliance
Technical Reports. Problem solving and analysis, Decision making, Planning
and organizing, Listening and communication skills, good interpersonal
relations.
DUTIES : Execute and manage Electrical maintenance of the Department. Inspect
equipment and facilities for technical faults. Repair equipment and facilities
according to standard Service equipment and facilities according to schedules.
Compile and submit reports. Provide inputs to the operation plan. Keep and
maintain job record and supervise and mentor staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PN Mokhotla Tel No: (013) 766 6780
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitSD@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/284 : ADMIN CLERK: TRANSPORT OPERATIONS REF NO: ACHRP/N/19
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Nkangala
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus Higher Certificate (NQF level 5 as recognised by SAQA) in
Public Administration/Transport Management with no work experience.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of the legislative prescripts
governing the Public Service and Transport Operations field. Computer literacy,
communication skills, records management skills, and good interpersonal
relations. The willingness to learn and develop a career in the Public Service.
DUTIES : Provide administration support to the Transport Operations. Keep sectional
records.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SI Mazibuko Tel No: (013) 766 6961
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitE@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/285 : PERSONNEL OFFICER: EMALAHLENI REF NO: PO/E/20
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Emalahleni Cost Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus Higher Certificate (NQF level 5 as recognised by SAQA) in
Public Administration/Human Resource Management with no work experience.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Thorough knowledge of relevant
prescripts applicable to public service. Good communication skills both verbal
and written at all levels. Computer literacy especially Microsoft Excel. Sound
Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Business Report. Influencing and
Networking, Planning and Organising, Strong Analytical Skills and Facilitation
Skills. Records Management.
DUTIES : Render all administrative related activities within the cost centre. Assist in
coordinating other line functions activities within the cost centre. Coordinate
property administration support services Keep sectional records. Supervise
staff. Advice staff on HR related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SI Mazibuko Tel No: (013) 766 6961
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitE@mpg.gov.za
205
POST 31/286 : ROAD WORKS FOREMAN (X9 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Goven Mbeki Cost Centre Ref No: RWF/GM/22 (X2 Posts)
Mashishing Cost Centre Ref No: RWF/M/23 (X1 Post)
Emalahleni Cost Centre Ref No: RWF/EM24 (X1 Post)
Dr JS Moroka Cost Centre Ref No: RWF/E/26 (X2 Posts)
Thembisile Hani Cost Centre Ref No: RWF/T HANI/27 (X1 Post)
Moretele Cost Centre Ref No: RWF/MOR/28 (X1 Post)
Umjindi Cost Centre Ref No: RWF/E/29 (X1 Post)
Albert Luthuli 1 Cost Centre Ref No: RWF/E/30 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate (NQF level 5 as recognised by SAQA) and successful
completion of Road Work course plus a road worker experience. A valid driver’s
licence. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of legislative
prescripts governing public service, computer literacy. Planning, organizing
and solving skills. Good interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Supervise maintenance projects. Execute equipment supervision. Execute
safety procedures and control. Oversee onsite training. Ensure compliance
with legislations. Oversee staff utilization and staff management. Maintain
workers performance management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SI Mazibuko Tel No: (013) 766 6961
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitE@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/287 : TELECOM OPERATOR: ALBERT LUTHULI 1 REF NO: TO/M/31
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Albert Luthuli 1 Cost Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with no experience Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of prescripts governing the Public Service. Verbal and written
communication skills and good interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : To handle incoming and outgoing calls. Act as a Receptionist and manage
District telephones. Take and forward messages to officials. Make print out of
telephones bills for respective extensions. Keeps records. Promote good
image about the Department as required by Batho Pele Principles.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SI Mazibuko Tel No: (013) 766 6961
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitE@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/288 : HOUSEKEEPER: ACCOMMODATION REF NO: HKA/PR/32
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 4)
CENTRE : Pilgrim’s Rest
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate with no work experience. Knowledge Skill and
Competencies: Knowledge of the legislative prescripts governing the Public
Service and Built Environment. Computer literacy, communication skills,
records management skills, and good interpersonal relations. The willingness
to learn and develop a career in the Public Service.
DUTIES : Administer bookings for guesthouses and halls; order cleaning material,
coordinate laundry services and ensure safe keeping of household assets.
Guest, houses and halls. Supervise laundry services. Supervision and
administration of Departmental housekeeping assets.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SI Mazibuko Tel No: (013) 766 6961
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitE@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/289 : BOILER OPERATOR (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital Ref No: BO/MH/33
Sabie Hospital Ref No: BO/MH/34
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate, boiler certificate with no work experience. A valid driver’s
license. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of Occupational and
Safety Act (OHS). Skills- planning, organising, verbal and written
communication skills. Candidate must be willing to work overtime and be on
standby.
DUTIES : Ensure Safe Boiler operation in the hospital. Supervise Boiler Assistant.
Maintain safe incinerator operation. Consistency in reporting and recording in
the boiler operation logbook. Timing of coal and ash removal from grift arrester,
cleaning of the boiler. Regular maintenance of the ash trolleys. Proper usage
206
of protective clothing. Cleaning the brine tank and water fitter. Apply chemicals
and salt to brine tank as prescribed.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SI Mazibuko Tel No: (013) 766 6961
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitE@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/290 : ROAD WORKERS (X16 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Thembisile Hani Cost Centre Ref No: RW/THANI/38 (X4 Posts)
Dipaliseng Cost Centre Ref No: RW/D/42 (X4 Posts)
Albert Lithuli Cost Centre Ref No: AS/43 (X1 Post)
Emakhazeni Cost Centre Ref No: RW/EM/45 (X2 Posts)
Mbombela Cost Centre Ref No: MCC/EH/46 (X1 Post)
Mkhondo Cost Centre Ref: RW/MKH/48 (X2 Posts)
Goven Mbeki Cost Centre Ref No: RW/GM/50 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (ABET) Certificate with no work experience. Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies: Knowledge of occupational health and safety. Listening and
communication skills. Good interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Render patch work, bush clearing, erect road signs, clean drainage and
remove rubbish on the road. Execute any activities that will relate to any road
maintenance as and when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PI Komanisi Tel No: (013) 766 6828
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitEle@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/291 : ROAD WORK OPERATOR (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Msukaligwa Cost Centre Ref No: RWO/MSUCC/51 (X1 Post)
Thembisile Hani Cost Centre Ref No: RWO/THANI/52 (X1 Post)
Mkhondo Cost Centre Ref No: RWO/MKH/53 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with no experience. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of occupational health and safety. Listening and communication
skills. Good interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Render patch work, bush clearing, erect road signs, clean drainage and
remove rubbish on the road. Execute any activities that will relate to any road
maintenance as and when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PI Komanisi Tel No: (013) 766 6828
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitEle@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/292 : TRADESMAN AID (6 X POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRES : Pilgrim Rest (Ref No: TA/PR/65 (X1 Post)
Mammetlake Hospital (Ref No: TA/M/66 (X1 Post)
Thembisile Cost Center (Ref No: TA/T HANI/67 (X1 Post)
Malamule Cost Center (Ref No: TA/MAL/69 (X2 Posts)
Steve Tshwete Cost Center (Ref No: TA/ST/70 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (ABET) with no experience. Knowledge, skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of occupational health and Safety. Listening and communication
skills, Good interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Carry out instructions from supervisor. Safely keeping of tools. Report minor
fault detected to the artisan.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PI Komanisi Tel No: (013) 766 6828
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitEle@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/293 : GROUNDSMAN (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Malekutu Cost Centre Ref No: G/M/71
Tonga Cost Centre Ref No: G/T/72
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (ABET) with no experience. Knowledge Skill and Competencies:
Knowledge in landscaping / gardening, knowledge of Occupational Health and
Safety. Ability to read and write and how to operation gardening machinery.
Listening and communication skills. Good interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Maintain gardens, lawns, and outdoor spaces. Operate gardening machinery
and equipment, including lawn mowers and brush cutters. Apply insecticides
and fertilizers as needed. Cultivate soil for trees and flowers. Maintain
207
gardening equipment and tools, including minor repairs. Assist with loading and
unloading of deliveries. Empty dirty dustbins and perform other tasks as
required by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PI Komanisi Tel No: (013) 766 6828
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitEle@mpg.gov.za
POST 31/294 : CLEANERS (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nkangala District Ref No: C/NK/75
Thembisile Hani Ref No: C/THANI/74
Ehlanzeni District Ref No: C/EHL/75
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (ABET) with no experience. Knowledge, Skill and Competencies:
Knowledge in cleaning with detergents, knowledge of Occupational Health and
Safety. Ability to read and write and how to operation cleaning machinery.
Listening and communication skills. Good interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Clean and maintain floors, offices, toilets, and kitchen areas. Sweep, dust,
vacuum, and disinfect surfaces. Empty bins and remove waste. Keep cleaning
materials and equipment in good condition. Report broken machines and
request cleaning supplies as needed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PI Komanisi Tel No: (013) 766 6828
NOTE : Applications must quote the relevant reference number and consist of: A fully
completed and signed NEW Z83 form which can be downloaded at
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp ."From 1 January 2021 should an
application be received using the incorrect / old application for employment
(Z83), it will not be considered”, A recent comprehensive CV; contactable
referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be indicated);
Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a detailed curriculum
vitae (Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
documents, all non-SA citizens must attach a copy of proof of permanent
residence in South Africa on or before the day of the interviews). Foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South
African Qualification Authority (SAQA). All shortlisted candidates for Senior
Management service and Deputy Directors posts will be subjected to (1) a
technical exercise; (1) a generic managerial competency assessment; and (2)
personnel suitability checks on criminal records, citizen verification, financial
records and qualification verification. All candidates who will be invited to
competency assessment, are kindly reminded to adhere to the schedule as
arranged by the Department. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within (3) months of the closing
date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only.
The successful candidate will be expected to enter into an employment
contract and a performance agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well
as completing a financial disclosure interests’ declaration form within one
month of appointment and annually thereafter. Faxed or emailed applications
will not be considered. Failure to comply with the above instructions will result
in your application being disqualified. The Department is committed to
providing equal opportunities and practices affirmative action employment. It is
our intention to promote representability in terms of race, gender and disability
when filling the vacant positions. Women and people with disabilities are
encouraged to apply. The Department reserves the right to fill or not to fill any
advertised posts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PN Mokhotla Tel No: (013) 766 6780
Mr SI Mazibuko Tel No: (013) 766 6961
Ms PI Komanisi Tel No: (013) 766 6828
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: PWRTrecruitEle@mpg.gov.za
Applications quoting correct reference number must be addressed (attention)
to: Head of Department. Applications must be posted to: The Head of
Department, Department of Public Works, Roads and Transport Private Bag
X11310, Mbombela, 1200. Hand Delivery: Head Office Riverside Government
Complex, No. 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside Park, Extension 2,
Mbombela, Building No 9 Visitors Center
Hand Delivery: District Offices:
Ehlanzeni District: 14 Bester Street, Mbombela, opposite Police Station
Bohlabela District: 101 Main Road, Thulamashe next to Graveyard
208
Gert Sibande District: Batho Pele Bld, Ermelo, Cnr. Robertson & Joubert Str.
Nkangala District: KwaMhlanga Government Complex, Building No. 7
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025 at 12H00
209
ANNEXURE O
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the Department.
CLOSING DATE : 19 September 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z83 of
the Public Service Act, obtainable from any Public Service Department or any
Public Service Administration website. Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must
submit a fully completed Z83 and a detailed/comprehensive Curriculum Vitae,
indicating positions held, dates and key performance responsibilities. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of their
qualifications and relevant documents on or before the day of the interview
proceedings following communication from the Human Resource Management
Recruitment and Selection Unit. Failure to submit the requested documents or
information will result in your application not being considered. The
employment decision shall be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the
Northern Cape Department of Health. Should an applicant wish to apply for
more than one post, separate applications must be submitted for all posts. If
you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal
record, residential address, qualification verification and employment
verification). Where applicable, candidates will be subjected to a
skills/knowledge test. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the above post. The successful candidate will be expected
to sign a performance agreement. The Department of Health is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be
informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the
Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through
the filling of this post(s) with a candidate whose transfer / promotion /
appointment will promote representavity in line with the numerical targets as
contained in our Employment Equity Plan. For all SMS positions, the
successful completion of the Public Service Senior Management Leadership
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government. The SMS Pre-
Entry Certificate is required prior to appointment. For more details on the pre-
entry course visit: https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse /sms-pre-entry-
programme
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 31/295 : DIRECTOR: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO: NCDOH 92/2025
Job Purpose: To Manage and provide management accounting services.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Financial Accounting and/or related NQF7 qualification as
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at middle
management/snr management. Successful completion of the pre-entry
certificate for SMS as offered by the National School of Government (NSG) A
valid B (08) driver’s licence is an inherent requirement. Competency Profile:
Knowledge of financial and public service legislation and regulations; the Public
Service Act and Regulations, the PFMA the PPPFA and applicable auditing
standards, Treasury Regulations and the Promotion of Access to Information
Act. Knowledge of BAS, PERSAL, Vulindlela and other financial systems.
Proven project management experience. Excellent understanding of strategic
roles and capabilities. Knowledge of business strategic planning, resource
allocation and human resources management. Ability to link financial and
nonfinancial performance. Sound knowledge of risk management, corporate
governance and internal controls. Communication skills, Analytical skills and
Development skills. Policy and strategy development. Good interpersonal
skills. Demonstration of good leadership. Understanding and knowledge of
advanced Microsoft Excel and PowerPoint. Report-writing and analytical skills,
good planning and decision-making skills.
210
DUTIES : Manage the management of Accounting functions as per the Public Finance
Management Act and Treasury Regulations to ensure sound financial
management planning, budgeting and expenditure management. Strengthen
control environment, internal controls and legislative compliance. Strengthen
the process around revenue and debt collection. Institutionalize Risk
Management within the Department through implementing actions plans,
reporting and monitoring. Audit improvement plan implementation and
coordination of year end process. Assist the Chief Financial Officer in the
development and implementation of policies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Tsholo Tel No: (053) 830 0506
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building,
Room 29, couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum
Building, Kimberley Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed to
nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application register
when an application is hand delivered.
OTHER POST
POST 31/296 : ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH PRACTITIONER REF NO: NCDOH 93/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree/National Diploma or equivalent NQF 6 qualification in
Environmental Health. Must have completed one-year community service as
an Environmental Health Practitioner. Registration with HPCSA as an
Environmental Health Practitioner. Grade 1: None experience, after
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa as an
Environmental Health Practitioner. Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years relevant
experience after registration with the Health Professional Council as an
environmental health practitioner, in respect of RSA qualified employees who
performed community service in South Africa, Minimum of 11 years relevant
experience after registration with the Health Professional Council (HPCSA) in
the relevant profession in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade
3: Minimum of 20 years relevant experience after registration with the Health
Professional Council as an environmental health practitioner, in respect of RSA
qualified employees who performed community service in South Africa,
Minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with the Health
Professional Council (HPCSA) in the relevant profession in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Competencies: Thorough knowledge of the
Environmental Health programme and objectives. Good communication skills
(written and verbal) well as computer literacy. Must have interpersonal
relations. Adherence to the Batho Pele principles. Must have problem-solving,
decision-making and ability to work in a multi-disciplinary team. Knowledge:
National Health Act, Environmental Health norms and standard as well relevant
prescripts.
DUTIES : Monitor the health care waste management at Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe
Hospital. Assist in the maintenance of pest control. Assist in the water
monitoring. Perform inspection on the provision of food and general hygiene in
the institution. Assist the hospital mortuary with the safe disposal of the
deceased. Conduct awareness and training on health and hygiene issues.
Ensure safe use of chemicals within the institution. Inspection of baggage,
cargo, container, conveyances, good and postal parcels for compliance with
relevant health regulations and legislation. Provide communicable diseases
control excluding immunization. Provide general administrative duties. Compile
weekly and monthly statistics as well as when required. Engage with relevant
stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A Paulsen Tel No: (053) 802 2253
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the front reception of Robert
Mangaliso Sobukwe Hospital, Admin Building, 3rd Floor HR Registry or email
to rmshhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application register
when an application is hand delivered.
211
ANNEXURE P
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that Post 30/143 Professional Nurse Grade 1 and 2
(Specialty: Nursing MOU) Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services: Salary:
Grade 1: R476 367 per annum, Grade 2: R583 989 per annum, Centre: Bishop
Lavis Community Health Centre, advertised in the Public Service Vacancy 30
dated 22 August 2025, has been cancelled.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 31/297 : CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate undergraduate qualification
(NQF level 7) in a Health/Social Science or related field as recognized by SAQA
with at least 5 years’ experience at a middle/senior managerial level. Pre-entry
Certificate for the Senior Management Services is a requirement (Candidates
not in possession of this entry requirement can still apply but are requested to
register for the course and complete it as no appointment can be made in the
absence thereof. The course is available at the National School of Governance
(NSG) under the name “Certificate for entry into the SMS” and the full details
can be sourced from the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-pre-entry-programme/. All costs
associated herewith are the responsibility of the applicant). Experience:
Appropriate experience and a proven track record of performance in all key
areas of management within a healthcare environment, including strategic
leadership, clinical governance, financial oversight, human resource
management, and stakeholder engagement. Inherent requirements of the job:
High level of communication skills, including the ability to engage diverse
internal and external stakeholders effectively. Advanced leadership and
management skills, with a demonstrated ability to lead multidisciplinary teams
in a complex healthcare environment. Advanced planning and organising skills,
including strategic thinking and operational execution. Strong conflict
management and negotiation abilities to navigate high-stakes decisions and
competing interests. High level of resilience, with the capacity to lead under
pressure and maintain focus during uncertainty or crisis. Ability to influence and
persuade others towards shared goals and institutional priorities. Valid driver’s
licence and willingness to travel across the province as required.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strong business orientation with
demonstrated expertise in financial management and oversight within a health
service environment. Proven leadership and management competencies
relevant to the operational and strategic demands of a healthcare institution.
High level of computer literacy, with proficiency in MS Word, Excel, Access,
PowerPoint, internet-based applications, and email communication.
DUTIES : Exercise values-based leadership and provide strategic governance in line with
the priorities of acute hospital services. Drive a culture of collaboration and
accountability within the regional health ecosystem, aligned to the Department
of Health and Wellness’ culture transformation journey. Provide overall
leadership and accountability for clinical governance, ensuring high standards
of patient care, clinical quality, and patient safety within the limits of available
resources. Lead and oversee institutional risk and disaster management,
ensuring preparedness, coordinated response, and system resilience. Provide
strategic and operational oversight of corporate governance functions,
including human resource management and development, financial and supply
chain management, information management, support services, and contract
212
management with key external partners. Maintain effective engagement with
external stakeholders, including communities, local government, oversight
bodies, academic institutions, and other tiers of the health system, to
strengthen integrated service delivery and accountability.
ENQUIRIES : Dr L Phillips Tel No: (044) 695-0047
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
OTHER POSTS
POST 31/298 : REGISTRAR (SURGERY: OTORHINOLARYNGOLOGY)
(5-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with Professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirements of the job:
Commuted overtime is compulsory. Participate in the after-hours call system.
Completion of FCS (SA) Otorhinolaryngology part II Intermediate Exam.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate and sufficient clinical
experience in otorhinolaryngology since obtaining the degree of MBChB and
after completion of internal rotations. Knowledge, expertise and experience
with regards to providing medical services in surgery and otorhinolaryngology
that is obtained from knowledge and skills obtained in the intermediate
examination.
DUTIES : Leadership. Research. Teaching. Clinical Service: Patient care. Clinical
Service: Operative/Surgical Skills Clinical Governance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Hassan, email: Farhana.hassan@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Consideration will be given to existing
employees who are already on higher salary packages to retain their existing
salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled to receive pay
progression. Appointment as a Registrar will be for a maximum contract period
of 5 years. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension benefits
as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their registrarship
should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions. Should
registration with the HEI as a student be discontinued for any reason the
appointment of Registrar also discontinues. Applicants must indicate whether
they have bursary obligations. Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the
department’s ecosystem framing of its training platform. Accordingly, all
registrar appointments may be called upon to work across this platform and
may include rotations at Metro West and Rural East hospitals. This includes
Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, New Somerset Hospital,
Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital, and George Provincial
Hospital. The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment
Equity. Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in
this regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department
will be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with University of Cape
Town according to the yearbook and guidelines.” Please ensure that you attach
an updated CV. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within
213
Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of three months from the date of the
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/299 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (INTERNAL MEDICINE) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Medical
Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees,
of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner
after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA
qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after
registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license.
Completion of Fellowship of the College of Physicians of South Africa FCP Part
1 (SA). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Be able to manage common medical
conditions presenting to the Department for admission. Be able to perform
procedures such as IV lines, ICD, CVP insertion. Be able to perform
resuscitation including cardioversion and ETT insertion. Be familiar with
provincial and national treatment guidelines for common medical conditions.
Basic computer literacy skills. Communicate well with colleagues including
arranging referrals to the tertiary centre.
DUTIES : Manage acute medical admissions and follow-up care of inpatients in the form
of consultant post intake and follow up ward rounds. Provide consultation
service to other departments of patients assessed by Registrars and Medical
Officers. Supervise Interns. Teach medical students rotating through the
Department of Medicine in the form of bedside tutorials. Take consultant ward
rounds for patients admitted by junior staff members. Liaise with family
members of admitted patients. Financial awareness regarding the use of
radiological and laboratory investigations.
ENQUIRIES : Dr T Crede Tel No: (021) 377-4391
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status). The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within Mitchell’s Plain Hospital, for a period of three months from the
date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
214
POST 31/300 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (PAEDIATRICS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Educational qualifications: Appropriate qualification that allows registration with
the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Officer.
Registration with a Professional council: Registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Officer. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as a Medical
Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of who is not required to perform Community Service as required
in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as
Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner
in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years relevant
experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign
Health Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3:
A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration as a
Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the
job: Participate in the after-hours call system. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Proven experience in principles of planning, organizing and
implementation. Proven knowledge of public health policies, guidelines and
related prescript to manage resources effectively. Competent and willing to
work across disciplines if required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Proven
experience in principles of planning, organizing and implementation. Proven
knowledge of public health policies, guidelines and related prescript to manage
resources effectively. Competent and willing to work across disciplines if
required.
DUTIES : Ensure an efficient and cost-effective clinical service of high quality with a
patient-centered focus and addressing the burden of disease in the Worcester
Geographical Service area (GSA). Ensure compliance by means of
maintaining high-quality clinical records. Financial management by effective
and efficient use of resources. Adhere to requirements for all HR matters and
Code of Conduct.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Camp Tel No: (023) 348 1100
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status). The
pool of applicants will be considered for vacancies within Worcester Regional
Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post. -No payment of any kind is required when applying for
this post. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Worcester Regional Hospital, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
215
POST 31/301 : CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R872 709 per annum
Grade 1: R1 014 705 per annum
Grade 3: R1 174 848 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows for the
required registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as a
Clinical Psychologist. Registration with Professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Clinical Psychologist. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as with the HPCSA as a Psychologist in respect of RSA qualified
employees. 1 Year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a
Psychologist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2:
A minimum of 8 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Psychologist in respect of RSA qualified employees. Minimum of 9 years
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 16
years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in
respect of RSA qualified employees. A minimum of 17 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) drivers’ licence. Will be required to perform after hour duties,
including weekends and Public Holidays as operational needs so demand.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience with mental health
care users in both in and outpatient clinical settings and management of such
services. Ability to apply highly developed interpersonal and reflexive
capacities in diverse settings in the workplace.
DUTIES : To assess, diagnose, and treat psychological disorders, communicate
effectively, work ethically, think critically, and provide culturally sensitive care.
To deliver and evaluate a comprehensive psychological service to mental
health care users at Lentegeur Hospital, primary healthcare clinics and the
community. To provide consultation to other health professionals, DSD and
WCED. To provide and engage in training initiatives. To engage in ongoing
professional development.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Lappeman Tel No: (021) 370-1326
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates could be subjected to a practical test. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within the Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/302 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY): NIGHT DUTY
SALARY : R755 355 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year
accredited with the SANC in one of the specialties: Medical and Surgical
Nursing Science: Operating Theatre Nursing, Oncology, Critical Care Nursing:
216
General, Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and Emergency, Orthopaedic Nursing,
Ophthalmological Nursing, Nephrology, Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science
or Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science. Registration with
Professional council: Registration with SANC as Professional Nurse and
Midwifery. Experience: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 6 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific specialty after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant specialty. At least 3 years of
the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience at
management level. Competencies (knowledge/skills): In-depth knowledge and
understanding of nursing legislation, related legal and ethical practices and
guidelines, relevant public sector legislation, People Management and Finance
policies and procedures. Excellent problem solving, conflict resolution and
leadership skills. Ability to work independently and under pressure.
DUTIES : Provide innovative leadership, management and guidance in the provision of
Services on Night Duty. Coordinate the provision of person-centered care by
setting standards, as well as involvement in policy and guideline development.
Monitor the standard of nursing care, as well as guidance and participation in
improvement projects with regards to quality of care. Effective management of
human and financial resources on Night Duty. Coordinate the provision of
effective training and research to ensure professional growth and adhere to
ethical standards.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L De Palo Tel No: (021) 404-2105
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post. Short-listed candidates may be subjected to a
compulsory competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/303 : ARCHITECT PRODUCTION GRADE A TO C
Directorate: Tygerberg PPP Unit
SALARY : Grade A: R761 157 per annum
Grade B: R866 304 per annum
Grade C: R976 029 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs)
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (9 Lower Burg Street, Cape Town CBD)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Bachelor’s degree in architecture or
relevant qualification. Registration with a professional council: Registration as
Professional Architect with the South African Council for the Architectural
Professions (SACAP). Experience: Grade A: At least 3 years’
appropriate/recognisable experience in this profession after qualification.
Grade B: At least 14 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in this
profession after registration with SACAP as a professional. Grade C: At least
26 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in this profession after
registration with the SACAP as a professional. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to travel within the Western
Cape, and occasionally, nationally. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy (CAD Software, MS Office and MS Excel). Experience in and
understanding of the design and construction of complex buildings with specific
reference to hospitals. Experience in the preparation of reports, drawings,
submissions and presentations in English. All different types and forms of
construction contracts. Knowledge of the following legislation: Construction
Industry Development Board Act of 2000 and Regulations. PFMA/Division of
Revenue Act /Treasury Regulations/Practice Notes/ Instructions/Circulars/
Construction Procurement System. Specifically: Treasury Regulation 16
(TR16), issued under the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) for national
and provincial governments. Provincial/Departmental Supply Chain
Management Policies. Promotion of Access to Information Act of 2000.
Promotion of Administrative Justice Act of 2000. Expanded Public Works
Programme. Broad Based Black Empowerment Act of 2003. Preferential
217
Procurement Act of 2000 and Regulations. Architectural Profession Act of
2000. Engineering Profession Act of 2000. Architects Profession Act of 2000.
National Building Standards Act of 1977 and Regulations. Government
Immovable Asset Management Act of 2007. Occupational Health and Safety
Act and Regulations of 1993. Project and Construction Management
Professions Act of 2000. Health Act and Regulations, Act 61 of 2003. National
Environmental Management Act of 1998. Relevant Provincial Land
Administration Legislation. ISO standards. Construction Procurement
Standard as Issued by CIDB.
DUTIES : Infrastructure Programme and Project Planning in line with PPP Regulations.
Infrastructure Programme and Project Implementation and Monitoring
Infrastructure Project Commissioning Infrastructure Programme and Project
Evaluation Research/literature studies to keep up with new technologies,
including interaction with relevant professional development boards/councils.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Koort, email: Thorpe.koorts@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/304 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (AREA: NIGHT DUTY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Helderberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
degree/diploma in nursing and midwifery) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A minimum of 8 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 3 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience at
management level. Registration with a Professional council: Registration with
the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) drivers licence. Willingness to work shifts, public
holidays, after-hours, standby and weekend cover for nursing and travel to
attend official meetings and/or trainings. Deputising for the Deputy Manager
Nursing: Head of Nursing and willingness to act for another member of the
Nurse Management team. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledgeable
about relevant legislation pertaining to labour relations, nursing legislation,
related legal and ethical nursing practices, relevant public sector policies and
protocols. Demonstrate an in-depth understanding of nursing legislation and
related legal and ethical nursing practices. Demonstrates a clear
understanding of Infection Prevention Control, Occupational Health and Safety
and Risk Management – including Ideal Hospital Framework and the Office of
Health Standard Compliance. Managerial and leadership skills and values:
integrity, innovative visionary, catalyst for change, self-awareness and
confidence, delegation, accountability, problem solving & decision making,
conflict resolution, interpersonal and communication skills. Very
knowledgeable and demonstrates a good understanding of People
Management (Human Resource Management). Demonstrates a good
understanding of financial policies and practices. Computer Literacy in MS
Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook.
DUTIES : Overall coordination, implementation and monitoring of the strategic objectives
of nursing, the hospital and the Department of Health. Effective management
and coordination of quality nursing care within set standards and within legal
and professional frameworks. Manage and facilitate both human resources
and financial aspects related to the hospital. Management of information
through the collection and analysis of data, report writing and development and
implementation of relevant interventions. Policy development and
implementation. Ensure that clinical nursing practice are rendered by the
nursing team and promote quality of nursing care as directed by scope of
practice and standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Photo Tel No: (021) 850-4774
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
218
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant Assistant Manager Nursing post
within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months
from date of advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
Candidates will be subjected to a practical/written assessment. Candidates
may be subjected to conduct a Competency Assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/305 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY): TRAUMA AND
EMERGENCY) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A
Post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited
with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science in Critical Care
Nursing: Trauma and Emergency or Medical and Surgical Nursing Science in
Critical Care Nursing: General. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum
of 9 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the
specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in Medical and
Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and Emergency or
Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing: General. Inherent
requirement of the job: Perform after-hour and weekend duties for the
department and the hospital. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Principles of
Management: Supervisory, leadership, problem solving, conflict resolution and
interpersonal/communication skills. Knowledge of Nursing legislation related
legal and ethical nursing practices and framework. Human Resources, Labour
relations legislation and Financial Management, including computer literacy
(i.e. Ms Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Knowledge of public sector
policies and protocols.
DUTIES : Provide innovative leadership in the allocated area to realise the strategic goals
and objectives of the Nursing Division. Responsible for the co-ordination and
delivery of quality nursing care within the relevant department. Participate in
formulation, monitoring and implementation of policies, guidelines, standards,
procedures and regulations pertaining to nursing care within the relevant
Department. Provide effective support and management of human, material
and financial resources, as well as Functional Business FBU management
principles. Manage staff performance, training and personal development of
self and subordinates including management of underperformance and
grievances. Collect, provide and use relevant information for the enhancement
of service delivery, including participation in and encouragement of nursing
research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R. Sutcliffe Tel No: (021) 404-2092
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post. Short-listed candidates may be subjected to a
compulsory competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/306 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE)
Overberg District
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Buffeljagsrivier Community Clinic
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and
219
Midwife. Post-basic qualification with duration of at least one-year Diploma in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited
with the SANC (R48). Registration with Professional council: Registration with
the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A minimum of 9
years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the
specific specialty after obtaining the one-year post-basic qualification as
mentioned above. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid code 8/EB/C1 driver’s
license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Demonstrate an in-depth
knowledge of nursing and public service legislation. Knowledge of Human
Resource and Financial policies. Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel).
DUTIES : Responsible for the management and coordination of PHC services and
delivery of person-centred quality nursing care in accordance with the scope
of practice and nursing standards at the Primary Health Care Facility, inclusive
of COVID – 19 screening, testing and management. Plan to practice a holistic
health service on a short-/medium-/long term basis including the provision of
effective mobile Primary Health Care services attached to the fixed facility.
Manage Personnel matters including supervision and performance
management, the utilisation and supervision of staff, finances and procuring as
well as implementing of policies, pre-scripts and protocols regarding the
mentioned facets. Manage Health Programmes (CBS, COPC, Comprehensive
Health, HAST, School Health) and Quality assurance program of the facility.
Manage control and act in facet of Health, Support, Data collection and timeous
submission of accurate PHC, CBS and HAST data, including Security,
Cleaning, Infection control and Ground services reports monthly. Organise a
cost-effective service daily and participate in community involvement including
attending community engagements as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Van der Westhuizen Tel No: (028) 514 8400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. No payment of any kind is re-
quired when applying for this post. The pool of applications will be considered
for vacancies within the Overberg District, for a period of 3 months from the
date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/307 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR GRADE 1
Cape Winelands Health
SALARY : Grade 1: R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Breede Valley Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
Diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) or equivalent as Professional
Nurse and Midwife (This dispensation is only applicable for posts of Clinical
Programme Coordinator where it is an inherent requirement of the post,
incumbent to maintain registration with the SANC). Registration with
Professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Experience: A minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence, willingness to travel and work overtime if and when required.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the departmental HAST
programs and QA policies. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, power Point
and Outlook). Good communication, facilitating, and interpersonal skills. Ability
to work independently and in a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Co-ordination and implementation of the sub-district
HIV/AIDS/STI/TB/VMMC/Mental Health Services, Integrated Management of
Chronic conditions (Late life Course), 1st 1 000 days’ strategy (Early life course
approach), Adolescent, Women’s and Men’s Health Services. Support with
community outreaches and projects to improve health outcomes. Assist with
HAST program system strengthening and strategic partnership. Involvement
with People Development component in skills development and training to
support integrated health services provision and provide clinical expertise. To
220
strengthen and coordinate internal and external interface management with
stakeholders, including NPOs, to enhance implementation of the COPC
principles. Provide oversight, supervision and support to health facilities
regarding the implementation of quality assurance policies, guidelines,
protocols, norms and standards. Monitoring and Evaluation of Integrated
Health services performance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CW van Staden Tel No: (023) 348-1350
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A practical test
will form part of the selection process. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Breede Valley Sub-district, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.”
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/308 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME CO-ORDINATOR (COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH)
(CBS AND FBS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Klipfontein/Mitchell’s Plain Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and
midwife with basic Community Nursing Science. (This dispensation is only
applicable for posts of Clinical Programme Co-ordinator where it is an inherent
requirement of the post, incumbent to maintain registration with the SANC).
Registration with Professional council: Registration with the SANC as a
Professional Nurse Midwife and Community Nursing Science. Experience: A
minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent
requirement of the job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy. Knowledge of all relevant public service
regulations and policies. Understanding public/private partnerships.
Understanding the District Health System. Project management skills.
Experience in Health programmes (women’s health, child health, mental
health, chronic diseases, infectious diseases).
DUTIES : Facilitate, co-ordinate, monitor and ensure adequate integration of all
Community Based Services within the PHC Programme in the delegated Sub-
district of the Klipfontein/Mitchells Plain Sub-structure. Establish, maintain and
participate in inter-professional and multi-disciplinary teamwork that promotes
effective and efficient Health Care to the communities of the delegated Sub-
district. Facilitate/support and assist in training, motivation and development of
delegated staff. Facilitate effective management and utilisation of resources in
accordance with relevant directives and legislation. Assist with NPO contract
management. Perform the operational management (Implementation support,
Monitoring &Evaluation, integration, development and adjustment) of health
programme technical support to the health facilities in a delegated sub-district.
Provide mentorship, support and develop capacity (training) at facility level as
relevant. Policy implementation and quality improvement initiatives as relevant
in the delegated sub district. Manage all appropriate special projects. Assisting
to ensure effective delivery of the Integrated Services incl HAST, VMMC in the
health facilities and in the community by all the personnel and stakeholders
concerned within the Sub district.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Van Niekerk Tel No: (021) 370-5000
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/309 : CHIEF ARTISAN GRADE A
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R480 261 per annum
CENTRE : Michells Plain District Hospital
221
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Trade Test Certificate.
(Mechanical/Electrical/Air-conditioning and refrigeration. Experience: 10 years’
appropriate post qualification experience as Artisan/Artisan Foreman.
Appropriate practical experience in Mechanical, electrical, air-conditioning and
refrigeration fields. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence). Willing to perform standby duties when necessary and attend
to emergency breakdowns after hours. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Be
conversant with the requirements of the Machinery and Occupational Health
and Safety Act. Appropriate knowledge to supervise the electrical, air-
conditioning and refrigeration division. Computer literacy, Word & Excel
spreadsheets. Knowledge of the public financial management act.
DUTIES : Supervise workshop staff. Responsible for the training, development and
supervision of junior staff and assist with staff evaluation. Control over
maintenance and repairs to plant, hospital services and equipment, autoclaves
and steam reticulation plant. Attend to emergencies including after-hours
repairs and standby duties @ MPH and EC Hub. Assist in project management
and the compilation of minor specifications. Budgeting and expenditure control
in respect of workshop.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. F. Johnson Tel No: (021) 377- 4307
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : Candidates may be subjected to a competency test. No payments of any kind
are required when applying for this post. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Michells Plain District Hospital, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/310 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR GRADE 1
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R477 564 per annum
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification in Social Work that
allows for registration with the South African Council for Social Service
Professionals (SACSSP) as a Social Worker. Registration with Professional
council: Registration with the South African Council for Social Service
Professions (SACSSP) as Social Worker. Experience: A minimum of 7 years’
appropriate experience in social worker after registration as Social Worker with
SACSSP. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in mental health and
/ or disability services. Strong understanding of psycho-social rehabilitation
framework and mental health conditions. Appropriate supervisory experience
and ability to provide effective supervision, guidance, and support to social
work staff. Excellent communication, active listening, and interpersonal skills
to work with diverse stakeholders. Ability to manage crisis situations, prioritize
tasks, and ensure timely interventions. Understanding diverse cultural
backgrounds, values, and beliefs. Familiarity with relevant laws, regulations,
and policies governing mental health services. Understanding of hospital
policies, procedures, and protocols. Skill in working collaboratively with
multidisciplinary teams, patients, and families. Ability to maintain accurate,
thorough, and timely records. Computer skills (Microsoft office). Ability to
capture statistics on Clinicom.
DUTIES : Provide clinical social work interventions and facilitate rehabilitation of mental
health users. The optimal utilization of available resources and networking with
relevant stakeholders as part of advanced social work interventions.
Professional supervision, mentoring, training and support to social worker staff
and others to ensure an effective social work service. General supervision and
line management of social work staff. Effective and efficient management of
social work-related projects and events Support to supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Dr N Morris Tel No: (021) 503 5006
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
222
Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/311 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
(plus, a non-pensionable rural allowance of 8% of the basic annual salary)
CENTRE : Robertson Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Post- basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year in
Curative Skills in Clinical Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care
accredited with the SANC (R48). Registration with Professional council:
Current registration with the South African Nursing Council as Professional
Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate
/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as Professional nurse
with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years
appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period
referred to above must be appropriate /recognisable experience after obtaining
the 1 year post basic qualification in the relevant specialty. Inherent
requirements of the job: A valid driver’s license. Willingness to work shifts,
weekends public holidays and night duty, and overtime when necessary.
Willingness to work in other wards inside hospital. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, Power Point and
Outlook.) Knowledge of appropriate legislation, regulations and Departmental
Policies. Knowledge of Hospital Centre Triage, Information Systems (HECTIS)
and South African Triage System (Back knowledge and experience in human
management, labour relations, financial and supply chain procurement
processes. Experience in the use of clinical equipment and control of budget
implementation and monitoring of standards. Effective communication,
interpretation, leadership, execute discipline, decision-making and resolution
skills.
DUTIES : Assist with the management of the burden of disease in accordance with the
guidelines and protocols of the western cape. Provide and maintain quality of
care to all patients and health services. Maintain accurate clinical records,
statistics registers, and referral records. Effective utilization of
Resources/Stock within the limited budget constraints. Participation in
Community events and initiating awareness with regards to health-related
issues. Maintain and participate in inter-professional and multi-disciplinary
teamwork but able to work independently. Supervise and mentor lower
categories of staff. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SM Kortje Tel No: (023) 626-8519
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of interview. The concession is only applicable
to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post basic
qualification: Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science, Health Assessment,
Treatment Care. “The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Robertson Hospital, for a period of three months from the date of the
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
223
POST 31/312 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPORT (PROCESS FACILITATION DESIGN)
Directorate: Strategy, Policy & Planning
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
degree in the social science or health science fields. Experience: Appropriate
experience in facilitation. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid code B/EB
driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Working knowledge of
facilitation tools and methods. Practical understanding of knowledge creation
and learning theory, especially social learning practices. Practical
understanding of stakeholder engagement. Exceptional interpersonal,
organizational, and communication skills. Project/events management skills.
DUTIES : Assist with the design and facilitation of workshops as part of the policy and
planning processes Assist with the design of workshop tools. Assist with
managing a collaborative workspace. Perform the convening function for multi-
stakeholder workshops. Managing team members.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Ching, email: Karen.Ching@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/313 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE
Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Accounting or equivalent with extensive experience/competencies
that focuses on the Key Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience:
Appropriate experience. Inherent requirement of the job: A Valid driver’s licence
(code B/BE). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Public Finance Management
Act (PFMA), National Treasury Regulations, Provincial Treasury Instructions
and the departmental delegations and procedures. Advanced computer literacy
in Microsoft Office applications (Word, Excel, PowerPoint). Strong leadership,
managerial, organisational, strategic, operational and contingency planning
skills. Independent decision-making, problem-solving and interpersonal skills.
Knowledge of asset and liability suspense accounts. Extensive knowledge of
debt management and book closure procedures. Extensive knowledge of loss
control procedures. Knowledge of BAS (Basic Accounting System), LOGIS and
PERSAL. Extensive knowledge of departmental debt policies. Excellent project
management skills. Presentation skills.
DUTIES : Manage the Department’s Asset and Liability suspense accounts. Manage the
Department’s Loss control process. Maintain/develop and administration of the
departmental debt policy. Analyse and manage the Departmental debt account,
the reporting thereof and compilation of write-off submissions in respect of
Head Office debt. Consolidate and provide inputs with regard to the Interim and
Annual Financial Statements. Control of monthly IYM departmental reporting.
Overall Human Resource Management of staff. Effective control to audit
queries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr DA Hendricks Tel No: (021) 483-4398
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/314 : EMS STATION MANAGER GRADE 3 TO 6 (RESCUE)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : Grade 3: R397 308 per annum
Grade 4: R480 108 per annum
Grade 5: R562 119 per annum
Grade 6: R624 288 per annum
CENTRE : EMS, Garden Route District, Rescue Base
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 3: Successful completion of the
Immediate Life Support (ILS) that allows registration with the HPCSA as
224
Ambulance Emergency Assistant (AEA). Grade 4: Successful completion of
the Emergency Care Technician Course (ECT) that allows registration with the
HPCSA as Emergency Care Technician (ECT). Grade 5: Successful
completion of the Critical Care Assistant course (CCA) or National Diploma that
allows registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic. Grade 6: Successful
completion of the B-Tech Degree that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Emergency Care Practitioner (ECP). Registration with Professional council:
Grade 3: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as
an AEA. Grade 4: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa as an ECT. Grade 5: Registration with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa as a Paramedic. Grade 6: Registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa as an ECP. Experience: Grade 3: Minimum
of 3 years’ experience after registration with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa as Ambulance Emergency Assistant (AEA). Grade 4: Minimum of
3 years experience after registration with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa as Emergency Care Technician (ECT). Grade 5: Minimum of 3
years experience after registration with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa as a Paramedic. Grade 6: Minimum of 3 years experience after
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as Emergency
Care Practitioner (ECP). Inherent requirement of the job: Valid code C1 driver’s
license. Current registration as an AEA, ECT, Paramedic or ECP. Valid Code
10 Professional driver’s permit. 12 Metro Rescue Technician Modules. Physical
and mental fitness as an Emergency Services practitioner. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in the MS Office package. Report writing
skills. Good communication and interpersonal skills. Excellent knowledge of all
12 rescue modules and levels of emergency care rescue protocols.
DUTIES : Manage pre-hospital Emergency Medical Rescue Services within the
geographic area and respond to incidents when required. Ensure that the
maintenance of Emergency rescue vehicles and rescue equipment are
managed effectively and efficiently. Maintain responsibility for the audit
compliance with regards to Supply Chain Management and Human Resource
matters, inclusive of the Station’s budget allocation and facilitation of account
payments for goods and services. Effectively manage and supervise staff in
relation to the Human Resource and Labour Relations function. Ensure
effective communication with regards to meetings, workshops, debriefs,
compiling stats and report writing. Effective support to the District Manager and
act in management capacity when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R. Botha Tel No: (044) 805-2500 for (George Rescue Base) post.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates are
subjects to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. -This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Emergency Medical Services, for a period of three months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/315 : SPEECH THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Bellville South Community Day Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Speech Therapist or Speech Therapist and Audiologist. Registration with
Professional council: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa (HPCSA) as a Speech Therapist or Speech Therapist and Audiologist.
225
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Speech Therapist with the
HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. One-year relevant experience
after registration as Speech Therapist with the HPCSA in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service
as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Speech Therapist in respect
of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as a Speech Therapist in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service
as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Speech Therapist in respect
of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 21 years relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as a Speech Therapist in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service
as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: A Valid driver’s
licence. Willingness to work in the geographical area within Northern/Tygerberg
Sub-structure and perform relief duties when needed. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal, planning and organisational skills, and
computer literacy (MS Office). Knowledge of applicable health legislation,
relevant acts and policies. Ability to adapt and work efficiently in a resource-
constrained environment.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient clinical service delivery in the speech and language
therapy services. Assistance in management of physical, human and financial
resources in Speech & Language Clinic. Effective and efficient planning of
speech and language therapy service. Admin duties – complete documentation
of all services rendered. Maintain own professional development and support
development of others.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Kassen Tel No: (021) 815-8798
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration. The pool
of applicants will be considered for vacancies within (the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services), for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/316 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE
Chief Directorate: Facilities and Infrastructure Management
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree in a financial field. Experience: Appropriate experience in public sector
financial environment and relevant systems and on the Key Performance Areas
(KRA’s) of post. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Code (EB/B) driver’s
licence. Ability to travel and work overtime if required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge and experience of working within the built
environment sector. Excellent interpersonal skills and the ability to interact with
a broad range of users. Ability to work co-operatively with colleagues and
stakeholders at all levels and working independently. Advanced computer
literacy (MS Excel and Word). Sound knowledge and experience in Supply
Chain Management processes. Sound knowledge of and experience of Basic
Accounting System (BAS). Ability to analyse information. Sound understanding
of accounting principles. Sound knowledge of the PFMA, National and
Provincial Treasury Regulations.
DUTIES : Extract relevant data from BAS and other relevant systems and evaluate
financial and SCM performance within the Chief Directorate. Manage
Interim/Annual Financial Statement reporting and A and L Accounts. Controlling
of accounting entries and reporting on erroneous transactions. Monitoring of
226
transfer payments, conditional grants and commitments. Manage the Supply
Chain Function within the Chief Directorate. Ensure compliance with
Accounting Officer System and Supply Chain Management Delegations. Assist
with effective system implementation and Audit processes. Effective and
Efficient document control systems. Rendering effective financial support and
assistance to the Chief Directorate. Extensive experience in extracting
information/reports from BAS and Vulindlela for analysis. Detection and
correction of incorrect accounting entries, authorise payments/journals and
ensure compliance. Application of accrual accounting principles to the extent
required by accounting statements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T September Tel No: (021)483-0890
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/317 : SENIOR FORENSIC OFFICER
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Observatory Forensic Pathology Institute
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or Equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate Forensic Pathology Service experience. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver's license. Be willing on travelling
long distances and working shift duties/ overtime. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good working knowledge of relevant legislation,
Regulations and Policies governing Forensic Mortuary Procedures and
Investigations. Ability to teach and train Forensic Pathology Officers and
Forensic Pathology Assistants. Ability to communicate clearly and discreetly in
person and in writing. Ability to achieve and maintain good interpersonal and
working relations with staff and clients, with knowledge of Batho Pele. Above-
average computer and software literacy in at least MS Excel and Word. Ability
to work under pressure. Ability to interpret and apply policies. Ability to work
with corpses, (mutilated, decomposed, infectious viruses, obese). Above-
average knowledge and experience on ECM and FPS System. Ability to be
trained in 4X4 Vehicle handling. Ability to be trained in photography. Will be
required to deliver testimony in court proceedings.
DUTIES : An efficient support service to the Manager with regard to management of the
Forensic Pathology Laboratory. Effective and efficient recovery, storage and
processing of deceased. An effective Forensic Autopsy process rendered in
accordance with set standards and guidelines. Optimal control of reports,
statements, specimens and exhibits during and after the Forensic Mortuary
process.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. AR White (Andrew.White@westerncape.gov.za)
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical test and interview. Shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to a security clearance prior to appointment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for vacancies within the Observatory Forensic Pathology
Institute, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/318 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES (CORPORATE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Bishop Lavis CDC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate Grade 12 (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administrative and supervisory experience in a health
facility. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) drivers’ license.
Willingness to work overtime. Willingness to rotate within the geographical
PHC facilities within the NTSS when operationally required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Supply Chain Management, Procurement
policy of the Department and personnel procedures. Advance computer
227
literacy (MS Word, Excel, Power Point and Outlook). Good interpersonal and
communication skills. Knowledge and understanding of PERSAL, Logis, ESL,
Bas, PHCIS, or any computerized accounting and logistic system as well as
knowledge and experience of budgetary aspects.
DUTIES : Comprehensive support and assistance to the Facility Manager as Head of
administration with regards to People Management functions PERMIS of your
subordinates, (HRM,) Human Resource Development (HRD) and Labour
Relations, Supply Chain Management (Logis) ESL, Finance, Information
Management and General office administration. Interact and liaise with clinical
staff and operational managers with regard to administration support, ensure
compliance with Quality Assurance, IPC/ OHS and Ideal Clinic and OHSC.
Assist with contract management, e.g., Security, Telephone systems, Garden
Services and Waste Management, Sanitary Bins, Pest Control. Supervisor to
Housekeeper and Cleaning staff, Logis Clerk, Information management and
Admin Support. Ensure correct procedures with regard to asset management,
GG vehicles (act as transport officer). Manage the allocated budget, assist with
expenditure, administration, and revenue management. Liaise with workshop
with regard to maintenance, reports of facility and grounds.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. B Piedade Tel No: (021) 508-4606
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Metro Health Services, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.” Candidates will be subjected to a practical/oral
assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/319 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING) (X4
POSTS)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Franshoek CDC (X1 Post)
Kylemore CC (X1 Post)
Cloetesville CDC (X1 Post)
Franshoek Dorp Mobile (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with Professional council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse and Midwife (i.e., annual licencing receipt of 2025.
Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing Inherent requirement of the
job: Prepared to work at different facilities within the Sub District inclusive a
Mobile and when needed within the community (COPC concept). Valid (code
B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to effectively
communicate (verbal and written). Knowledge and insight of relevant
legislation and policy related to nursing within the public sector and basic
computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook) to be able to communicate,
capture patient information, check results, capture data and do and track
referrals on the different electronic systems. Ability to promote quality patient
care through the implementation of protocols, guidelines, and standards.
DUTIES : Provision of Primary Health Care in accordance with the guidelines and
protocols of the Western Cape. Maintain accurate clinical records, statistics
registers, and referral records. Effective utilization of Resources/Stock within
the limited budget constraints. Participation in Community events and initiating
awareness with regards to health-related issues. Maintain and participate in
inter-professional and multi-disciplinary teamwork but able to work
independently. Supervise and mentor lower categories of staff and improving
228
quality of health services. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and
self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MM Muller Tel No: (021) 808-6109
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Stellenbosch Sub-district, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.”
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/320 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 GENERAL (PHC) (X3 POSTS)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Bredasdorp CDC (X1 Post)
Swellendam PHC (X1 Post)
Swellendam/Cape Agulhas CDC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and Midwifery. Registration
with Professional council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration at SANC as a
Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirement of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB/C1) driver’s licence. Willingness to work overtime when
necessary. It will be expected of the candidate to perform clinical functions
within the Primary Health Care setting and do relief work at the other clinics in
the Sub-district when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
function/make decisions independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team.
Good communication, interpersonal relationships, exceptional leadership and
conflict resolution skills. Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook.
Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of the Department of Health
Western Cape.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of quality
comprehensive nursing care within the Primary Health Care context. Maintain
ethical practice within legal and regulatory frameworks. Maintain a constructive
working relationship with all relevant stakeholders of the Primary Health Care
Team. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently and effectively.
Participate in training programmes and research activities. Maintain workplace
disciplinary of sub-ordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms GJ van der Westhuizen Tel No: (028) 514-8400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. No payment of
any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific c Arial Bold category with the relevant council (including individuals
229
who must apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within the Overberg District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/321 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Citrusdal Hospital, Cederberg Sub-district:
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
degree/diploma in nursing) that allows registration with the South African
Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Registration with
Professional council: Registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate / recognizable experience after registration
as a Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years’ appropriate / recognizable experience after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to work shifts, weekends, public holidays and night duty as
well as overtime when necessary. Willingness to rotate within all
wards/departments within the hospital according to operational needs.
Willingness to undergo the required training as prescribed in terms of the
Choice on Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1996. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Excellent communication with community and other
stakeholders’ engagement and facilitation skills, Knowledge of relevant
legislation, policies including Health care 2030, Sustainable Development
Goals, 1st 1000 days. Excellent planning and organisational skills in
Community Health Care, programs and services. Computer literate in Microsoft
office programs. Good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic nursing care with set standards and within a
professional / legal framework. Effective utilization of resources: Human
Resources, Material Resources and Services. Participation in training and
research. Provision of support to Nursing Services. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development. Render a medical and surgical
termination of pregnancy (MVA).
ENQUIRIES : Sr L Van Geems Tel No: (022) 921 2153
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Cederberg Sub-district, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/322 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL) (TRAINING RELIEF)
West Coast District
(Contract until 31 December 2025)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
plus 37% in lieu of service benefits
CENTRE : PHC Clinics, Matzikama Sub-districts
230
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Registration with the Professions Council: Current registration with the South
African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience:
Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration at SANC as a Professional Nurse in
General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
in General Nursing. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
license. Willingness to travel to and support all PHC Clinics in the Sub-district
as needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal, planning,
organisational skills, and computer literacy (MS Office). In-depth knowledge of
appropriate legislation, regulations and Departmental Policies.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic nursing care with set standards and within a
professional/legal framework. Utilise human- and material resources efficiently
and effectively. Participation in training and research. Provision of support to
nursing management services. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards
and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Dr JE Eygelaar Tel No: (027) 2134070
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for other similar vacant posts within the Matzikama Sub-district, for
a period of 3 months from the date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/323 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING: PRIMAY
HEALTH CARE)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 (PNA2) per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 (PNA3) per annum
Grade 3: R476 637 (PNA4) per annum
CENTRE : Kuyasa CC, George Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Experience: Grade1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of
20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirements
of the job: Planning and organisational Skills. Self- discipline and motivation.
The ability to function independently under pressure. Good communication
skills. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Willing to work in all Primary Health
Care facilities e.g. Community Day Centers, Clinics, Satellite clinics and on
Mobile Clinics. Valid driver’s license. Willingness to work overtime when
needed. Willingness to undergo the required training as prescribed in terms of
the Choice on Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1996. Willingness to support in
the STOP and MTOP program.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of quality
comprehensive nursing care within the Primary Health Care context. Support
and Deliver STOP and MTOP care. Maintain ethical practise within legal and
regulatory frameworks. Maintain a constructive working relationship with all
relevant stakeholders of the Primary Health Care Team. Utilize human, material
and physical resources efficiently and effectively. Participate in training
231
programmes and research activities. Maintain workplace disciplinary of sub-
ordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MFJ Marthinus Tel No: (044) 814 - 1100
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Garden Route District for a period
of 3 months from the date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/324 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL: GYNAECOLOGY)
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
Degree/Diploma in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwife Registration with Professional
council: Registration with SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to rotate to other departments within the
maternity Unit. Willingness to work shifts including weekends, public holidays
and night duty. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Nursing
Practices, Infection Prevention Control, control measures and practices.
Problem solving, report writing, liaison and facilitation skills. Basic computer
skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook and use of Internet. Ability to lift and turn
patients, stand for long hours and lift heavy equipment.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice or quality patient care). Implement standards, practices,
criteria and indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing
and health care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing
and health care. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and
other stakeholders Utilise human, material and physical resources efficiently
and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Wulff Tel No: (021) 404 2109
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. Short-listed candidates may be
subjected to a compulsory competency test. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
232
POST 31/325 : RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 TO 3 (ULTRASOUND) (5/8TH)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R307 035 per annum
Grade 2: R359 532 per annum
Grade 3: R422 949 per annum
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in
Ultrasound Radiography. Registration with Professional council: Registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Radiographer in Ultrasound. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with
the HPCSA in Ultrasound Radiography in respect of RSA-qualified employees.
One-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA in Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of RSA-qualified employees.
Minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it
is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA in Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of RSA-qualified employees.
Minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it
is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (code B/EB) driver’s licence and
willingness to travel within the Sub-district. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy in word processing, data management and analysis. Ability
to use or learn to use systems eg clinicom, PHCIS. Ability to work
independently and in a team with good interpersonal skills. Thorough
knowledge of ante-natal-, ante-natal Doppler-, paediatric-, gynaecology- and
abdominal- ultrasound studies. Completion of supplementary courses in
diagnostic ultrasound and knowledge and interest in teaching in Obstetrics and
Gynaecology at both undergraduate and post-graduate level.
DUTIES : Provide a comprehensive diagnostic ultrasound service at an advanced level
with the main focus on Obstetrics and Gynaecology (O&G) imaging in
Stellenbosch Hospital including abdominal and other studies. Outreach
sonography services to clinics in the ecosystem and district as requested.
General care of patients as part of a Multi-Disciplinary team. Effective
administration within the ultrasound unit regarding patient service, appropriate
referral as well as equipment management. Maintain case records and
statistics. Supervise, train and assess colleagues eg midwives, doctors,
radiographers. Actively take part in CPD- program, as learner as well as In-
service training.
ENQUIRIES : Dr ND Blanckenberg Tel No: (021) 808-6106
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Stellenbosch Hospital, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.”
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/326 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (NURSING)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
233
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in the provision of administrative duties.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in MS Word and Excel.
Good organisational skills and the ability to function under pressure and as part
of a team. Good interpersonal and communication skills. Knowledge of human
resource management, labour legislation and the nursing agency tender
process.
DUTIES : The candidate will be responsible for providing an effective nursing
administrative service. Effective utilization of Human and financial resources to
assist in achieving the objectives of the unit. Delivering effective support to the
Nursing Department as well as the other departments/ modules on a relief
basis.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Dubase Tel No: (021) 938 4000
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment. The pool of applications
will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/327 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (ECO
SYSTEM SUPPORT)
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
(5 Months Contract)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of service benefits.
CENTRE : Head Office, Based at Belville Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Accounting or Mathematics as a passed subject or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience that focuses on the Key Performance Area (KPA’s)
of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in Supply Chain Management
practices or system management/implementation/asset verification. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willing to travel with the Western Cape and stay in nurse
homes where applicable. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer Literacy
particularly in Word and Excel. Knowledge of asset verification scanning.
Conversant with the Department’s procurement prescripts. Excellent human
relations abilities and telephone skills.
DUTIES : Ensure all assets (new and existing) are barcoded as well as barcoding
Locations for identification process. Scan all assets per location using the
scanning application. Using the BI tools identify assets not verified and
investigate if the assets still exist. Capture all movements, balance adjustments
additions, transfer and donations i.r.o assets. Perform thorough asset
verification in each directorate as well as spot checks. Ensure that the
assets/equipment is indeed unserviceable. Rollout and maintain asset
application designed for the department. Perform an effective Helpdesk
service.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Ruiters, via email Jovan.Ruiters@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/328 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS (ROVING) (X6 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro District Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Delft CHC (X1 Post)
Kraaifontein CHC (X1 Post)
Symphony Way CDC (X2 Posts)
Morning Star CDC (X1 Post)
Fisantekraal CDC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate or equivalent.
Experience: Appropriate experience in outpatient admissions and a help desk
environment. Data capturing experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
234
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to work 12-hour shifts (i.e. night duty,
weekends, public holidays) and work overtime on short notice. Willingness to
rotate within and between health facilities due to operational needs.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Primary Health Care
Information System/Clinicom, Hospital Emergency Centre Tracking
Information System, Tier.net. Knowledge of the PFMA and responsibilities
linked to finance management. Knowledge of filing, archiving and disposal
process of records and records management.
DUTIES : Admissions of clients in different departments, open new folders, merging of
folders, filing, archiving and disposal of folders. Accomplish key tasks in a
competent and acceptable manner, adhere to sound professional behaviour
and dress code. Ensure accurate and daily capturing on
PHCIS/Tier.net/relevant electronics systems. Ensure clients are admitted
according to the appointment system, assist with queue marshalling. Ensure
good client relation strategies to minimize complaints. Ensure effective and
efficient implementation of all applicable policies, procedures and instructions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. R. Carelse Tel No: (021) 815-8866
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for vacancies within (the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services), for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/329 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Human Resource Management.
Appropriate experience regarding the PERSAL salary system. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication skills. Computer literacy (MS Word,
Excel, PowerPoint). Basic understanding of Human Resource Management.
Knowledge and experience of PERSAL and their relevant functions.
DUTIES : Perform all administrative duties pertaining to personnel administration, e.g.
appointments, resignations, transfers, pension administration, salary
administration, leave, distribution of payslips, debt management and verify
documents and qualifications. Responsible for capturing transactions on
PERSAL. Audit personnel and leave records. Handle all personnel enquiries
and correspondence (written and verbal). File personnel data, policies,
regulations and circulars. Assist with all other administrative functions in the
Personnel component.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs. L Engelbrecht Tel No: (021) 938-4690
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a practical assessment. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/330 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (QUALITY ASSURANCE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in a Quality Assurance in a health facility.
Appropriate experience in administrative work outputs related to patient safety,
staff safety, risk mitigation and quality Improvement. Appropriate experience in
secretarial tasks. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of applicable
policies, legislation, guidelines, standards, procedures and applicable
235
practices in the Public Service. High sense of responsibility. Ability to work
under pressure and to meet deadlines. Willingness to work overtime when
necessary and assist in other departments when required. Exceptional typing
skills must be able to type at a speed of at least 50 words per minute, high
accuracy. Computer Literacy in MS Word, MS Excel and MS PowerPoint. Must
be able to work independently and should be able to take initiative. Proven data
capturing experience.
DUTIES : Maintain record keeping via integrated databases of various systems and
processes, with an ability to make changes where needed as well as show
innovation towards improving the process. Secretarial support. Support to the
consumer services which includes complaints, compliments, and suggestions.
Contribute to the planning and capturing of hospital compliance tasks inclusive
of but not limited to hospital assessment, patient surveys, waiting time surveys.
Ensure all patient compliance tasks are upheld through administrative support
where necessary. Support quality Improvement and its monitoring and
implementation throughout facility. Provide general administrative support
throughout the institution as required.
ENQUIRIES : Dr R Jacobs Tel No: (021) 940 8909
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/331 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE/ADMIN
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate patient administration experience in a health
environment. Appropriate Clinicom experience. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to work overtime and provide relief in other departments as
operationally required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer skills in
MS Office. Good interpersonal and communication skills, ability to work
independently, and as part of a team, ability to maintain confidentiality and
problem-solving and conflict management with good organisational skills.
Official must have a good understanding of the daily running of a hospital
admissions department, good understanding of the department & fees
protocol, and hospital fees, policies and procedures – Chapter 18.
DUTIES : Provide support/relief to staff and supervisor as operationally required with
regard to waiting list, OPD attendances and patient administration. Perform
Patient administrative functions within the Ward which includes admissions,
transfers, discharge of patients, transport bookings, patient queries, reviewing
of patient information. Perform daily ward rounds and ensuring all patient
movements are captured on Clinicom. Providing effective general
administrative support to the Ward and Hospital including folder administration
and adhoc ward duties. Ensure periodicals for long stay patients are captured
on the Excel database, Doctors are informed timeously of periodicals due for
the month and the completed and signed periodicals are sent to National
Department of Health, and the periodicals are filed in the patient folder.
Ensuring resources within the ward is managed effectively, replenishment of
stock and managing stock.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Van der Westhuizen Tel No: (021) 833 9445
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates will be subjected to a written and oral assessment. The pool of
applicants will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the
job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same
as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
236
POST 31/332 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (STORES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Helderberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Senior Certificate (or equivalent), with
Mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
stock handling. Appropriate work experience on the LOGIS system. Inherent
requirements of the job: Physically fit and able to do physically demanding
tasks. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in MS Word, Excel,
Outlook and SharePoint. Good planning, organizational and time management
skills. The ability to function independently, think creatively and apply ideas.
DUTIES : Completion and capturing of requisitions, receipt voucher and issue voucher
on LOGIS. -Completion and capturing of requisitions, receipt voucher and
issue voucher on LOGIS. Packing and removing stock from storage areas and
shelves and delivering to end users. Ensure accurate stock and compliance
controls i.e. applying FIFO principle, etc. Maintain stock levels and ordering
stock i.e. completion of PA, etc. Regular reporting i.e. monthly Inventory
reporting, stock takes, etc.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Vermeulen Tel No: (021) 850 4766
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Helderberg Hospital for a
period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/333 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (NURSING SERVICES)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Citrusdal Hospital, Cederberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Staff Nurse. Registration with
Professional council: Registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of
10 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with
the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as a Staff Nurse. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work
overtime, shifts, weekends and public holidays. Willingness to rotate within all
wards/departments within the hospital according to operational needs. Work
as part of a multidisciplinary team and support the managers to ensure quality
nursing care. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word
and Excel). Demonstrate good communication with patients, supervisors and
colleagues. Good organizing skills.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care plans. Provide basic
clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development. Effective functioning within the
multi-disciplinary team.
ENQUIRIES : Sr L Van Geems-Wolmarans Tel No: (022) 921 2153
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
237
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Cederberg Sub-District, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/334 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Nduli Clinic (Witzenberg Sub-district)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum
of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with
the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with SANC as a
Staff Nurse. Registration with Professional council: Registration with the SANC
as a Staff Nurse. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work in mobile
clinic when necessary. Be prepared to assist in other facilities other than facility
were allocated according to operational needs. Valid (code B/EB) driver’s
license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication, planning and
interpersonal skills. Ability to work in the multidisciplinary team. Abilities to
identify patients that require higher levels of care and refer accordingly.
Maintain ethical standards, professional growth and self-development.
Enhance patient care through the implementation of SOP’s, policies and
guidelines. Skills to safely interpret vital signs and refer.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care. Provide basic clinical
care in a resource constrained PHC setting. Effective utilization of physical and
financial resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Tyesi Tel No: (023) 316-9600
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Witzenberg Sub-district, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.”
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/335 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Montagu Mobile 1
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as Staff Nurse. Registration with Professional council: Registration
with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
238
SANC as Staff Nurse. Inherent requirement of the job: Prepared to work at
different facilities within the Sub District including Mobiles and Clinics and when
needed within the community (COPC concept). Valid (code B/EB) driver’s
licence essential. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and insight of
relevant legislation and policy related to nursing within the public sector.
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook) to be able to communicate,
capture patient information, check results and capture data. Ability to promote
quality patient care through the implementation of protocols, guidelines, and
standards.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care. Provide basic clinical
care in a resource constrained PHC setting. Effective utilization of physical and
financial resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. R Heyns Tel No: (023) 614- 8200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Montagu CDC for a period of three months
from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/336 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (X10 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
SANC as Staff Nurse. Registration with a Professional council: Registration
with the South African Nursing Council as an Enrolled Nurse. Experience:
Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years recognisable nursing
experience as an enrolled nurse after registration with the SANC. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years recognisable experience as an enrolled nurse after
registration with the SANC. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to
work shifts, night duty, weekends and public holidays as well as overtime.
Willingness to rotate between departments. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to interpret basic clinical signs and symptoms. Knowledge of Nursing
Practices and IPC, control measures and practices. Ability to lift and turn
patients, stand long hours and lift heavy equipment. Good communication
skills. Basic Computer Literacy. Self-discipline.
DUTIES : Develop and implementation of basic patient care plans. Provide basic clinical
nursing care. Effective health promotion and information to patient/client and
community. Effective utilization of physical and financial resources. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self- development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Geswindt Tel No: (021) 377- 4410
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a practical test. “The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
239
POST 31/337 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Klipfontein Mitchell’s Plain Sub-structure (X2 Posts)
Hanover Park CHC (X1 Post)
Heideveld CDC (X2 Posts)
Gugulethu CDC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Educational qualifications: Qualification that allows registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a
Professional council: Registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing
Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable nursing
experience after registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC).
Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, night shift and
overtime when requested. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate
experience in a Health environment.
DUTIES : Provide quality basic nursing care. Provide elementary clinical nursing care.
Assist patients with activities of daily living which includes Patient Hygiene,
Nutritional Status, mobility and elimination needs. Maintaining professional
growth, Ethical Standards and Self-development. Record keeping. Support to
supervisor and colleagues by team participation. Maintain a degree of
professionalism in the execution of duties. Provision of Quality Nursing Care to
health care users.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Patel-Abrahams Tel No: (021) 370-5008
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates,
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted with their job application/on appointment. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals whom apply for the first time for registration
in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/338 : STERILISATION OPERATOR
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Helderberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in a CSSD
setting. Inherent requirement of the job: Work shifts on day duty, on weekends
and public holidays. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal
skills. Ability to work effectively as part of a team. Understanding of disinfection,
decontamination and sterilisation processes. Adherence to standards and code
of conduct.
DUTIES : Provide sterile instruments, packs, and decontaminated items to theatre and
other clinical areas. Effectively utilise resources, care and safekeeping of
equipment, instruments and consumables. Effective assembling and closing of
CSSD packs for sterilisation and distributing to various clinical areas. Support
the supervisor of CSSD. Provide relief duties as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Pasquallie Tel No: (021) 850-4747
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. No payment of
any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of applicants will be
considered for other vacant Sterlisation Operator (CSSD) posts within the Chief
240
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/339 : PORTER
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic literacy and numeracy skills.
Experience: Appropriate porter experience in hospital environment. Inherent
requirement of the job: Must be able to work standby and overtime including
weekends and on public holidays. Must be of sober habits, physically fit to lift
patients and heavy equipment. Physically able to be on one’s feet for long
periods. Must be prepared to handle bodies (corpses). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and communication skills. Knowledge
of the safe infection prevention methods. Ability to work independently, under
pressure, unsupervised and in a team context.
DUTIES : Efficient and safe handling and transportation of patients. Assist with the
loading of patients in/out of ambulances/vehicles. Render assistance to
nursing staff with the transfer of patients to beds/trolleys and vice versa.
Effectively and efficiently managed Mortuary Services, including transportation
of corpses from wards to the mortuary and entering detail in mortuary register.
Efficiently and effectively controlled equipment and reporting any defects to
trolleys/wheelchairs to supervisor. An effectively supported HR function.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs G Piet Tel No: (023) 348 1125
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for vacancies within Worcester Regional Hospital for a period of 3
months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/340 : CLEANER (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro District Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Delft Community Health Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience:
Appropriate cleaning experience in a Health facility and Hospital environment.
Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work 12- hour shifts and after
hours (weekends, public holidays and night duty). Willingness to work
overtime, on short notice when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good interpersonal skills. Appropriate knowledge with the use of the cleaning
equipment and cleaning materials.
DUTIES : Provide a clean and hygienic environment to prevent the spread of infection.
General cleaning and maintenance (dusting, sweeping, vacuuming, polishing,
scrubbing and mopping). Effective utilization of cleaning materials and
equipment. Ensure that cleaning equipment is clean after usage and securely
stored. Effectively use cleaning agents and stock as well as elementary stock
control. Responsible for general hygienic and safe environment in terms of
standard and procedures. Optimal support to supervisor and colleagues.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L Mrabalala Tel No: (021) 954-2237
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for vacancies within (the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services), for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
241
POST 31/341 : GENERAL WORKER: STORES
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience:
Appropriate experience in a stores environment. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good Communication skills. Physically able to handle
stock.
DUTIES : Answer telephone and handle internal queries. Receive and issue goods.
Deliver store stock to end-users. Clean various stores and non-storage areas
within the main stores. Assist in other stores when required. Rotate store stock
(first in, first out) Assist the Admin Clerk with the handling of stock.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Ismail Tel No: (021) 404 5181
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/342 : FOOD SERVICES AID
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 468 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Educational qualifications: Appropriate Basic literacy and numeracy skills.
Experience: Appropriate experience in a large-scale industrial kitchen and in
preparing patient meals in a hospital environment. Inherent requirements of the
job: Be able to work shifts, weekends, and public holidays. Be healthy and
strong able to lift heavy objects and be on their feet the entire day. Ability to
function in a group as well work independently and to work under pressure.
Dress according to departmental specifications and adhere to hospital policy.
Interpret standardized recipes, use a scale and do basic sums. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of mass production and cooking methods for
both normal and therapeutic diets. Knowledge of hygiene, Occupation Health
and Safety and HACCP principles. Knowledge of National food service
guidelines Knowledge of basic cleaning and maintenance of industrial
equipment Sound organizing, interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to
work according to rules and policies to meet deadlines. Ability to work
independently and under pressure. The pool of applications will be considered
for vacancies within the department, for a period of three months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates may
be subjected to a competency test. No payment of any kind is required when
applying for this post.
DUTIES : Pre preparations and production of all normal and therapeutic diets. Weigh,
dishing and distribution of patient’s food and beverages. Assist in receipt and
storage of all provisions and stock in the food service unit. Follow correct
hygiene and safety procedures within the food service unit Follow and adhere
to elementary control, measures and standard operational procedures.
Cleaning of all work areas, storage areas, utensils, and equipment. Assist with
informal in-service training of new employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L van Rhyn Tel No: (021) 799-1243
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
POST 31/343 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY)
(SESSIONAL) (9 HOURS PER WEEK)
SALARY : Grade 1: R646 per hour
Grade 2: R737 per hour
Grade 3: R853 per hour
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital
242
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Orthopaedic Surgery. Registration with Professional
council: Registration with the Health professional council of South Africa as
Medical Specialist in Orthopaedic Surgery. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Orthopaedic Surgery. Grade
2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience after registration with the
HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a
foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Orthopaedic Surgery.
Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience after registration with
the HPCSA (Or as recognised foreign Health Professional council in respect of
a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Orthopaedic Surgery.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in Orthopaedic
Surgery. Knowledge of paediatric orthopaedic conditions and the management
thereof. Surgical experience in the management of common paediatric
orthopaedic condition. Capability in the clinical environment and able to
manage people having good interpersonal skills. Ability to communicate
effectively and compassionately with patients and their caregivers.
DUTIES : The person appointed to this position will be required to partake in in-patient
and outpatient management of orthopaedic patients at RCWMCH. They will be
required to participate in one half-day clinic and one half-day surgical list. The
incumbent will be expected to teach under- and post-graduate students in the
clinical environment. Ensure the rational and cost-effective use of resources
(including laboratory investigations, medication, consumables and equipment).
ENQUIRIES : A/Prof A Horn; Email address: anria.horn@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 12 September 2025
243