PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 34 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 19 SEPTEMBER 2025
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge
and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH
IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative
action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied.
Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the
filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment
in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR A 03 - 09
HOME AFFAIRS B 10 - 14
JUDICIAL INSPECTORATE FOR CORRECTIONAL SERVICES C 15 - 19
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT D 20 - 22
LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT E 23 - 28
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY F 29 - 43
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE G 44 - 48
TRADE INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION H 49 - 51
WATER AND SANITATION I 52 - 54
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
GAUTENG J 55 - 57
KWAZULU NATAL K 58 - 59
LIMPOPO L 60 - 84
MPUMALANGA M 85 - 93
WESTERN CAPE N 94 - 144
2
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 00:00 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the correct
job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your email.
Use the correct email address associated with the post. JPEG
(picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Failure to do so, your
application will be disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference
number must be submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate’s
suitability based on the posts’s technical and generic requirements. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your
information will be used soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. If you
have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below
advertised post(s). The successful candidate will be required to enter into an
employment contract and a performance agreement. The Department is an
equal opportunity affirmative action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of
the Department shall inform the employment decision. It is the Department’s
intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of
this post(s)
OTHER POSTS
POST 34/01 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: UI OPERATIONS (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Eastern Cape Ref No: HR 4/4/1/140 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Gqeberha Ref No: HR 4/4/1/150 (X1 Post)
3
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification in Operations Management/ Public Management
or Administration/Business Administration or Management / Administrative
Management/ Management/ Financial Accounting/ Finance at NQF Level 6 as
recognized by SAQA. Four (4) years’ experience of which two (2) years’ must
be functional experience in Operations environment, and two (2) years must
be supervisory experience. Plus, Valid Driver’s License. Knowledge:
Unemployment Insurance Act (UIA), Unemployment Insurance Contributions
Act (UICA), Treasury Regulations, Public Financial Management Act (PFMA),
Treasury Regulations, Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA), Public
Service Act (PSA), Public Service Regulation (PSR). Skills: Communication
(Both verbal and written), Time Management, Customer Relations, Computer
literacy, Supervisory Skills, Report Writing, People Management, Couching
Skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate the employer services function in the province. Coordinate the
provision of assessment, validation and adjudication of claims. Facilitate
registry services in the province. Coordinate Local appeals and complains in
the province. Coordinate General Support. Manage resources in the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TM Ramatsetse Tel No: (043) 701 3000.
Mr M Nqolowa Tel No: (041) 506 5000
APPLICATIONS : Acting Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X9005, East London,
0001 or hand deliver at No 3 Hill Street, East London. Email: Jobs-
EC4@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, Private Bag X6045 Gqeberha,
6000, or hand deliver at VSN Centre 116-134 Govan Mbeki Avenue Gqeberha
6000. Email: Jobs-EC6@labour.gov.za
POST 34/02 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STATUTORY SERVICES REF NO: HR4/4/10/901
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Western Cape
REQUIREMENTS : LLB Degree /Four (4) year legal qualification at NQF7 SAQA recognised.
Admission as an Attorney/Advocate. A valid driver’s licence. Two (2) years
functional experience in legal environment. Knowledge: Public service
transformation and management issues; Public Service Act; Ability to convert
to policy into action; Treasury Regulations; Public Service Regulations and
relevant prescripts; Departmental policies and procedures; Accounting
systems and Internal Control; Corporate governance; Enforcement manual;
Batho Pele Principles. Skills: Computer literacy; Verbal and written
communication; Good interpersonal relations, Problem solving, Facilitating,
Presenting, Conflict management; Research; Litigation.
DUTIES : Implement statutory processes with respect to all Labour Legislation and IES
Policies. Implement Advocacy Programmes on compliance and enforcement.
Develop and implement a Labour Centre Monitoring programme for
enforcement files. Oversee administration for statutory services in the province.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Q Bowman Tel No: (021) 441 8120
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town or email Jobs-WC@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 34/03 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT &
EMPLOYMENT RELATIONS REF NO: HR4/4/8/140
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year relevant tertiary qualification at NQF6 in Human Resource
Management. Valid driver’s license. Two (2) years supervisory experience. Two
(2) years functional experience doing Human Resource and Employment
Relations Services. Knowledge: Public service transformation and
management issues. White paper on transformation of public service. Ability to
convert policy into action. Human Resources Systems and Procedures. Public
Service Act and Resolution. Recruitment and Selection. Departmental Policies
and Procedures. Batho Pele Principles. Minimum Information Security
Standards. Skills: Administration and Financial management, Project
Management. Interpersonal. Communication (Verbal and Written). Computer
Literacy. Analytical. Problem Solving. Conflict management. People
Management.
4
DUTIES : Coordinate and monitor the implementation of human resources management
policies in the province. Monitor and provide advice on the implementation of
Employment Relations policies and prescripts. Coordinate and manage the
implementation of programmes of Employment Equity. Monitor the
administration of service benefits.
ENQUIRIES : Mr ZL Albanie Tel No: (053) 838 1502
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X5012, Kimberley 8301 or
hand deliver at Laboria House, c/o Pniel & Compound Street, Kimberley. Email:
Jobs-NCKIM@labour.gov.za
POST 34/04 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: HR4/25/09/16HO
Branch: Office of the DDG: Public Employment Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification at NQF6 as recognized by SAQA in Office
Management/ Information Management/ Public Administration/Business
Administration. Four (4) years functional experience in Office Administration/
Secretariat services. Knowledge: Basic Departmental policies and procedures,
Administration procedures, Batho Pele Principles. Skills: Communication,
Analytical, Computer literacy, Interpersonal, Organizing and Planning,
Telephone etiquette.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to the Deputy Director-General. Manage the
Deputy Director-General’s diary, including the events calendar, arrange
meetings and workshops. Monitor the provision of secretariat services in the
Deputy Director- General’s Office. Maintain confidentiality of documents and
ensure that all strategic complex correspondence are properly filed including
the management of those records thereof. Coordinate all the Deputy Director-
General’s Projects and monitors the Branch Budget.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Kekana Tel No: (012) 309 4656
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street, Pretoria or Email: Jobs-
HQ30@labour.gov.za
POST 34/05 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO: HR4/25/9/11HO
Directorate: Supply Chain and Asset Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification at NQF6 as recognized by SAQA in Asset
Management/ Supply Chain Management/Public Management/ Public
Administration/ Finance/Taxation/Bcom Accounting/Bcom Supply Chain
Management Two (2) years at a supervisory experience. Two (2) years
functional experience in Asset Management. Knowledge: Asset Management
Framework, Risk Management, Departmental policies and procedures,
international standards for the professional practice of Internal Auditing, Public
Service Regulations, Supply Chain Management prescripts. Project
Management. Basic Accounting Systems (BAS). Logis. Skills: Leadership.
Computer literacy. Presentation. Analytical. Communication (both verbal and
written). Facilitation. Innovative.
DUTIES : Maintain Asset register and the issuing of stores. Provide technical guidelines
to the asset’s users. Implement and monitor asset reversals, disposals and
donations. Supervise staff in the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Maholwana Tel No: (012) 309 4670
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street, Pretoria or Email: Jobs-
HQ23@labour.gov.za
POST 34/06 : STATUTORY SERVICES OFFICER REF NO: HR4/4/10/902
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Western Cape
REQUIREMENTS : BPROC/LLB/BCOM LAW at NQF7 and SAQA recognised. A valid driver’s
licence. One (1) year in legal/ compliance environment. Knowledge: Public
service transformation and management issues, Public Service Act, Treasury
Regulations, Departmental policies and procedures, corporate governance,
Skills Development Act, Public Service Regulations, Skills Development Levi
5
Act (SDLA). Skills: Facilitation, Planning and Organizing, Computer literacy,
Interpersonal, Problem Solving, Interviewing, Presentation, Innovative,
Analytical, Verbal and written.
DUTIES : To plan and independently administer work referred to Statutory Services for
enforcement of no compliance under employment law. Assist the ASD: SS in
the enforcement processes for IES. Assist in the strategy for Statutory
Services. Assist in facilitating the implementation of capacity development
programmes for the inspectors in the provinces. Compile stats for the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Q Bowman Tel No: (021) 441 8120
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town or email Jobs-WC1@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 34/07 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: OPERATIONS REF NO:
HR4/4/10/120
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Butterworth Labour Centre
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Operations Management/ Public
Management or Administration/Business Administration or Management /
Administrative Management/ Management/ Financial Accounting/ Finance at
NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. A valid driver’s license. Two (2) years
functional experience in Client Service environment/ Claims Processing
environment in operations or Insurance Environment. Knowledge:
Unemployment Insurance Act and Regulations (UIA), Unemployment
Insurance Contributions Act (UICA), Department of Employment and Labour &
UIF Policies and Procedure, Operations System, Batho Pele Principles,
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Skills: Interpersonal,
Presentation, Listening, Communication (verbal and written) Computer
Literacy, Problem Solving, Planning and Organizing.
DUTIES : Provide Unemployment Insurance Services through interaction with
customers. Provide quality assurance and follow-up on Unemployment
Insurance applications. Administer the UI Claims and Processing Services.
Supervise resources (Human, Financial, Equipment/ Assets) in the section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Getyeza Tel No: (047) 491 0656
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, Private Bag X3081, Butterworth,
4960 or hand deliver at ERF 9369 Blyth and Robison Streets Butterworth 4960.
Email: Jobs-ECBTW@labour.gov.za
POST 34/08 : TEAM LEADER (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Nqanqarhu Ref No: HR4/4/10/50 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: KwaMaqoma Ref No: HR4/4/10/51 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year’s National Diploma (NQF 6)/Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF 7) in Labour Relations/Labour Law/LLB/BCOM Law. Two (2) year’s
functional experience in Inspection and Enforcement Services. A valid driver’s
licence. Knowledge: Department policies and procedures, Employment
Services Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, COIDA, SABS Codes, Unemployment
Insurance Act, UI Contribution Act, Employment Equity Act, Immigration Act.
Skills: Facilitation, Planning, Organizing, Computer literacy, Interpersonal,
Conflict handling, Negotiation, Problem solving, Interviewing, Presentation,
Innovative, Analytical, Monitoring, Performance Management,
Communication.
DUTIES : Plan and independently conduct substantive inspections with the aim of
ensuring compliance with some of labour legislation, namely, Basic Conditions
of Employment Act (BCEA), Labour Relations Act (LRA). Plan and execute
investigations independently on reported cases pertaining to contravention of
labour legislation and enforce as and when necessary including making
preparations for and appearing in Court as a State witness. Plan, allocate and
conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with
labour legislation including compilation and consolidation of reports emanating
from such inspections. Conduct Advocacy campaigns on Labour legislations
regularly. Manage the finalization of files of cases received and investigations
conducted by the Inspectors. Contribute at a management level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including
6
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mvanyashe Tel No: (045) 932 1424
Mr T Mgudane Tel No: (046) 645 7700
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, P.O. Box 397, Nqanqarhu, 5480
or hand deliver at 1 Royal Road Nqanqarhu,5780. Email: Jobs-
ECMCR@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, Private Bag X530, Fort Beaufort,
4735 or hand deliver at No 528 Alice Road Old Teba Building Fort Beaufort
5720. Email: Jobs-ECFOB@labour.gov.za
POST 34/09 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: PROPERTY ACQUISITION AND LEASING
REF NO: HR 4/4/4/09/01
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Kempton Park, Gauteng
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF 6)/ Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF 7) in Public Management/ Facilities Management/ Property
Management/ Bachelor of Arts in Disaster and Safety Management. 1-2 years’
experience in the field of Property acquisition and leasing. Knowledge: Batho
Pele Principles, Regulations (e.g. PFMA, Treasury Regulations), Building
Environment. Skills: Strong sense of urgency and accountability, Computer
literacy with knowledge of Excel, writing skills, Excellent Customer focus,
Interpersonal relation skills, Communication skills, Problem Solving skills,
Decision making.
DUTIES : Acquire lease office accommodation as well as renew leased accommodation.
Conduct site inspection and ensure compliance in terms of OHS in all leased
building (implementation of compliance notices). Process the lease
expenditure and ensure the payments of leases within 30 days. Maintain
electronic folder for accommodation issues.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Mthethwa Tel No: (011) 853 0300
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 4560, Johannesburg, 2001, or
hand deliver at 47 Empire Road, Parktown. For online applications email: Jobs-
GP25@labour.gov.za
POST 34/10 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE (MEDICAL ADJUDICATION) GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
HR 4/4/6/02
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 - R382 107 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R396 132 - R466 623 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R476 367 - R610 662 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Labour Centre, Modimolle
REQUIREMENTS : Four (4) years’ degree (NQF7)/ three (3) years’ Diploma in Nursing (NQF6).
Post Graduate Diploma (NQF8) in Occupational Health / Theatre Technique /
Critical Care will be an advantage. Grade 1: 2-9 Years’ experience gained after
registration, Grade 2: 10-19 Years’ experience gained after registration, Grade
3: 20 Years’ – above experience gained after registration. Experience in
trauma/emergency/internal medicine/general surgery/orthopaedics/theatre at
the regional public hospital level or private hospital. Experience in medical
claims processing/insurance environment will be an added advantage.
Registration with the South African Nursing Council. Knowledge: Medical
related Legislation, Medicines and related Substances Act, Medical aid
knowledge (case management), Occupation Health knowledge, Regulatory
Knowledge & Implementation, Del and Compensation Fund objectives and
business functions, Nursing legislations and related legal as well ethical
nursing practices, Compensation Fund policies, procedures and processes,
Stakeholders and customers, Customer Service (Batho Pele Principles), Fund
Values, Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS), COIDA Act, Regulations
and Policies, COIDA tariffs, Technical Knowledge, PFMA and National
Treasury Regulations, General knowledge of the Public Service Regulations,
Public Service Act, Health Professions Act, Health Act. Skills: Post claims
management and settlement, Claims handling, Claims settlement
management, Medical Policy Management, Clinical Excellence and Advisory,
Project Management and Planning, Information Analysis and Interpretation,
Digital Acumen/Medical Systems (IT Systems Control Designs), Clinical
Coding, Quality Assurance and Improvement, Research and Benchmarking.
7
DUTIES : Provide advice and recommendation in the acceptance of liability. Recommend
the approval for medical accounts. Provide medical advice on the processing
of occupational injury claims. Determine PD (Permanent Disability) and TTD
(Total Temporary Disability). Assess medical accounts on occupational injury
claims and OD medical accounts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MI Makgobola Tel No: (015) 290 1723
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X9368, Polokwane, 0700 Or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane or Email address: Job-
MOD@labour.gov.za
POST 34/11 : BCEA INSPECTOR (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Malelane Ref No: HR4/4/7/44 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Durban Ref No: HR4/4/5/80 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years relevant qualification at NQF6 in Labour Relations/ BCOM Law/
LLB. No experience required. Valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Departmental
policies and procedures, Skills Development Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, Unemployment Insurance Act and
Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act. Skills: Facilitation skills, Planning
and Organising (Own work), Computing (Spread sheet, PowerPoint and word
processing), Interpersonal skills, Problem Solving skills, Interviewing skills,
Analytical, Verbal and written communication skills and Employment Equity
Act.
DUTIES : Conduct occupational inspections with the aim of ensuring compliance with all
labour legislations. Execute investigation on reported cases pertaining to
contravention of labour legislation and enforce where and when necessary.
Conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with
labour legislation. Conduct advocacy campaigns on identified and allocated
labour legislation. Assist in drafting of inspection plan, reports and compilation
of statistics on allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Ndhlovu Tel No: (013) 791 6000/6008 (Malelane)
Mr S Mchunu Tel No: (031) 3361501 (Durban)
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Private Bag X517, Malelane 1320
or hand deliver at Old ABSA Building, Ground Floor, 19 Lorenco Road,
Malelane or Email: Jobs-INSP-MAL-@LABOUR.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: PO Box 10074, Marine Parade
4056 or hand deliver at 16 Beach Grove, Durban or Email to: Jobs-
KZN16@labour.gov.za
POST 34/12 : INSPECTOR (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Alberton Ref No: HR4/4/4/09/02 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Garankuwa Ref No: HR4/4/4/09/03 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years relevant qualification at NQF6 in Labour Relations/ BCOM
Law/LLB. Valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Departmental policies and
procedures, Skills Development Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, Unemployment Insurance Act, UI Insurance Contributions
Act, Skills: Facilitation skills, Planning and Organizing (own work), Computing
(Spread sheets, PowerPoint and word processing), Interpersonal skills,
Problem solving skills, Interviewing skills, Analytical, Verbal and written
communication skills, Employment Equity Act.
DUTIES : Conduct occupational inspections with the aim of ensuring compliance with all
labour legislations. Execute investigations on reported cases pertaining to
contravention of labour legislation and enforce where and when necessary.
Conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with
labour legislation. Conduct advocacy campaigns on identified and allocated
labour legislation. Assist in drafting of inspection plans, reports and compilation
of statistics on allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Nkutha Tel No: (010) 700 0290
Mr P Rangwashe Tel No: (012) 700 0290
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 4560, Johannesburg, 2001 or
hand deliver at 47 Empire Road, Parktown.
For online applications email:
Jobs-GP11@labour.gov.za (Alberton)
Jobs-GP13@labour.gov.za (Garankuwa)
8
POST 34/13 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: MANAGEMENT SUPPORT SERVICES REF
NO: HR4/4/7/7
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/Grade 12/Senior certificate. Knowledge: Batho Pele Principles,
Departmental policies and procedures, Treasury Regulations. Skills: Verbal
and written communication, Interpersonal relations, Problem solving,
Computer literacy, Analytical, planning and organising.
DUTIES : To render Supply Chain Management Function in a Labour Centre Daily.
Provide a Finance and office management service to the Labour Centre.
Render a Human Resource management. Responsible for training and
performance activities in a Labour Centre. Responsible for the records
management in a Labour Centre.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Zawula Tel No: (047) 501 5600
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, Private Bag X5080, Umtata, 5100,
or hand deliver at Manpower Building CNR Elliot and Madeira Street, Umtata,
5100. Email: Jobs-ECMCR@labour.gov.za
9
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF HOME AFFAIRS
CLOSING DATE : 10 October 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted online at (Linkshield Protected)
erecruitment.dha.gov.za or send to the correct email address specified at the
bottom of the posts, on or before the closing date, accompanied by a fully
completed Application for Employment Form (New Z83, effective from 1
January 2021), obtainable at www.dpsa.gov.za and a comprehensive CV, citing
the start and end date (dd/mm/yy), job title, duties performed and exit reason
for each employment period to be considered, as well as the details of at least
two contactable employment references (as recent as possible); limited to
2.5MB in size. Shortlisted candidates are required to submit a copy of their ID
document, a valid driver’s license (if specified as a job requirement), relevant
educational qualifications / RPL certificates / Academic Transcripts of
completed qualifications, and details of current earnings (latest salary advice)
as directed. Furthermore, applicants who possess (a) foreign qualification(s),
are required to submit the evaluated results of such qualifications, as received
from the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to employment suitability checks (credit, criminal, citizenship,
qualifications, and employment references including verification of exit
reasons, and conducting business with State). In order to be considered for
appointment into Senior Management (SMS) posts, applicants potentially
considered suitable are required to complete the online “Pre-entry Certificate
for entry into the Senior Management Services” course; obtainable at the
National School of Government (NSG), under the name “Certificate for entry
into the SMS”. Full details can be obtained via the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Once
appointed, the entering into of an employment contract (for SMS posts),
serving of a prescribed probation period, and obtaining of a security clearance
appropriate to the post, will be required. Correspondence between the
Department and candidates will be limited to shortlisted candidates, only.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 34/14 : DIRECTOR: CENTRAL LAW ENFORCEMENT REF NO: HRMC 33/25/1
Branch: Immigration Services
Chief Directorate: Inspectorate
SALARY : R1 266 714 - R1 492 122 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive salary
package), structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package; State
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic salary.
The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the applicable
remuneration rules.
CENTRE : Head Office, Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Security Management / Policing / Public
Management / Public Administration / International Relations at NQF level 7 as
recognised by SAQA. 5 years’ experience at middle / senior management level
is required. Experience in a Law / analysis or interpretion of information
environment is required. Experience in law enforcement (SAPS / Defence /
Immigration). Experience in operational planning in joint operations.
Knowledge of the Public Service Regulatory Framework, Immigration Act 13 of
2002 and DHA Enabling Legislation. Sound knowledge and understanding of
Government Structures. Knowledge of the Medium-Term Strategic Framework
(MTSF), Government Planning Framework (Lekgotla and Makgotla).
Knowledge of Departmental Legislation and Prescipts. Knowledge of the
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa. A valid drivers’ license. Willingness
to travel and work extended hours. Required skills and competencies: Strategic
capability and leadership, Strategy execution, Service delivery innovation,
Stakeholder relations, Operational planning, People management and
empowerment, financial management, Presentation skills, Investigations,
Problem solving and analysis, Business Report Writing, Information and
Networking, Negotiation Skills, Conflict Management Skills, Diplomacy,
10
Research methodology and Analysis, Policy development, Digital skills, Data
analysis, Coaching and facilitating.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Monitor province’s functions and ensure the implementation of
uniform and standardised policies, processes and procedures. Oversee
effective inspections, checking of documents, arrests, detention and
prosecution of illegal foreigners. Ensure effective reporting on statistics and
trends on activities nationally (inspections, status of open cases, arrests,
deportations). Analyse all data and records provided by provinces and provide
recommendations to improve future service delivery. Liaise with Deportation
unit, Correctional Services, SAPS and NIA to ensure co-ordination and
partnership in the detection, processing, detention, arrest and legal
management of foreigners convicted of criminal activities. Manage the effective
planning and coordination of raids, roadblocks and investigations with regional
offices and SAPS where required. Ensure that cases opened in provinces are
transferred to Integrity management unit (typically cases spanning several
provinces, involving syndicates, corrupt DHA officials etc.). Monitor effective
interface between Inspectorate officers in zones and Integrity management
unit. Identify and communicate new priorities and planned raids or initiatives to
SAPS, Correctional Services, NIA and Regional Offices. Develop the
Operational Plan for the directorate and ensure effective prioritization and
resource planning. Coordinate, monitor and report on the delivery of the
Operational Plan against agreed objectives and performance indicators.
Report on the performance of the directorate against the Operational Plan to
the Chief Director / Deputy Director-General. Develop technical expertise and
skills within the directorate based on business needs and environmental
changes. Ensure business transformation and partnerships with various
stakeholders. Ensure business alignment to agreed business requirements.
Liaise with internal and external stakeholders on law enforcement related
matters. Benchmark with various institutions for best practice. Develop
identified law enforcement policies and procedures in conjunction with the
Policy and Strategy directorate. Contribute to the review of code of practice for
the directorate. Contribute towards the development, and ensure
implementation, of an appeal system with clear processes and procedures.
Determine appropriate resources to achieve objectives. Monitor and evaluate
the compliance with the provisions of the Immigration Act, Immigration
Regulations and other relevant policies and procedures. Develop and
implement within the directorate governance processes, frameworks and
procedures associated with statutory financial responsibilities. Monitor and
ensure compliance with legislation, regulations, DHA policies and procedures
within the directorate. Ensure compliance with all audit findings within the
directorate. Represent the directorate at management and other relevant
forums. Monitor quality, risk, standards and practices against prescribed
frameworks.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Mamphoke Tel No: (012) 406 4247
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at (Linkshield Protected) erecruitment.dha.gov.za/original-
text: ZXJlY3J1aXRtZW50LmRoYS5nb3YuemEv; or sent via email to
imsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 34/15 : DIRECTOR: IS SECURITY REF NO: HRMC 33/25/2
Branch: Information Services
SALARY : R1 266 714 - R1 492 122 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive salary
package), structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package; State
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic salary.
The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the applicable
remuneration rules.
CENTRE : Head Office, Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Information Technology / Computer Science
or related field at NQF level 7 as recognized by SAQA. 5 years’ experience in
middle management / senior management in IS Security is required. Extensive
experience in IS Security environment is required. Experience in establishing
cybersecurity. Sound knowledge and application of the GITO Requirements
and Frameworks. Knowledge of the state information Technology Agency Act
(SITA) and 88 of 1998. Knowledge of e-Government policy framework
consultation paper developed by GITO. Sound knowledge of minimum
11
information security standards (MISS). The position paper on information
security ISO 1799 (Information security framework). National Strategic
Intelligence Act and Draft Electronica Transaction Bill Knowledge of server
hardening on multiple platforms. Knowledge of Information technology
infrastructure (ITIL). Understanding of relevant Legislation and Prescripts. A
valid drivers’ license. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required
skills and competencies: Strategic capability and leadership. Accountability.
Business Continuity. Financial management. People management and
empowerment. Planning and organizing. Decision making, Conflict
management and resolution. Service delivery innovation, Stakeholder
Relations (Internal and External). Program and project management. Problem-
solving and analysis. Presentation skills. Business report writing. Influencing
and networking and Communication skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Manage the coordination of communication security systems by
providing dynamic, wireless bridging in the event of disruption of the backbone
at critical junctures. Ensure prevention of threats imposed on the backbone
communication networks and their core. Manage the prevention of insider
attacks that may easily circumvent all the counter measures designed for
outsider attacks. Lead and direct the protection of all-optical departmental
network infrastructure to embedded sufficient intelligence and learning capacity
to networks that it heals damages by itself and protect itself from unforeseen.
Provide advice on research conducted on new technologies to ensure audit
readiness, technical design and expertise. Manage the coordination and
monitoring of security authentication and access control. Provide expert to the
advice DHA security management team on technical issues associated with
security solutions deployment. Lead and direct the development and
implementation of desktop/server security Strategy. Ensure that user
computers are protected from viruses which can be transferred between
programs or computer without, the knowledge of user. Lead and direct the
coordination of employees support to secure user systems against attacks and
data corruption. Oversee the installation of antivirus software in the employees
computer in order to protect it from viruses. Ensure that information or files in
the computer are protected by providing remote access to employees in the
Department. Lead and direct the implementation of personal firewall software
installed for DHA employees to provide the ability to control the services which
are permitted access to, and from the computer. Lead and direct the design,
implementation and monitoring of information System Security solutions and
applications. Lead the research, design and advocate new technologies,
architecture, and security products. Manage the analysis of business impact
and exposure, based on emerging security service catalogue and service
policies, procedures and standards. Manage the development and
implementation of information systems Security services catalogue and service
policies and procedures. Lead and direct the coordination of Cyber-security
monitoring, analysis and incident response. Lead the coordination and
conducting of Cybercrime investigation, prosecution and implementation of
outcomes. Lead the development of information security technology strategy
that relates to the overall departmental strategy. Lead and direct information
security controls and requirements of a complex and technical environment.
Ensure that technical and non-technical security controls are established and
maintained and in compliance with a variety of security requirements. Manage
the development and implementation of information security technology
strategy and baseline. Develop and implement operational plan and ensure
effective prioritization and resource planning. Provide strategic direction to the
unit. Manage and monitor the delivery of the operational plan against the
agreed objectives and time frames. Report on the performance of the
directorate against the business plan and APP to the Chief Director. Develop
technical expertise within the directorate and keep abreast of technological
advancements. Ensure the implementation of innovation initiatives. Develop
and implement governance processes, framework and procedures within the
directorate. Monitor and ensure compliance with legislation, regulations, DHA
policies and procedures within the directorate. Ensure compliance with all audit
requirements, quality and risk management framework, standards and
procedures with the directorate. Represent the directorate at management and
other government forums. Develop and implement the operational plan of
Directorate. Ensure that targets of the Directorate are aligned to the operational
12
project plan. Develop and submit proposals, plans and budgets in advance for
all project initiatives that are required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Modipa Tel No: (012) 406 4243
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at (Linkshield Protected) erecruitment.dha.gov.za/original-
text:ZXJlY3J1aXRtZW50LmRoYS5nb3YuemEv; or sent via email to
isrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 34/16 : DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: HRMC 33/25/3
Branch: Human Resources Management and Development
SALARY : R1 266 714 - R1 492 122 per annum (Level 13), an all-inclusive salary
package), structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package; State
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic salary.
The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the applicable
remuneration rules.
CENTRE : Head Office, Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Labour Relations / Industrial Relations /
Labour Law / Law at NQF 7 as recognized by SAQA. 5 years’ experience in
middle / senior management is required. 5 years extensive experience in a
Labour Relations environment is required. Experience in management of
collective agreement. Ability to develop and implement effective strategies and
solutions to complex employee relations issues. Proven ability to resolve
disputes, mediate conflicts, and represent the department in negotiations.
Extensive knowledge of the Labour Relations Act, Frameworks and processes
for the Public Service. Knowledge of applicable Public Service Resolutions and
all Collective Agreements reached in the Bargaining Council. Knowledge of the
Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Knowledge of Statutory Dispute
Resolution structures. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act and
Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of the South African Constitution.
Knowledge of Departmental legislation. Understanding of Human Resources
legislative framework delete and prescripts. Knowledge of Investigation
techniques and methodologies. Knowledge of the Promotion to Access to
Information Act, PAIA. Knowledge of the Public Service Regulations. A valid
driver’s license. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required skills
and competencies: Strategic capability and leadership. Business Continuity.
Financial management. People management and empowerment. Planning and
organizing. Decision Making. Ability to work under severe pressure. Conflict
and dispute resolution. Service delivery innovation. Stakeholder relations
(Internal and External). Program and project management. Problem-solving
and analysis. Presentation Skills. Ability to meet deadlines. Excellent Business
report writing skills Influencing and networking. Excellent Negotiation skills.
Facilitation skills. Research skills. Interpersonal skills. Communication skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Manage the development and implementation of effective
strategies and solutions to complex employee relations issues, policies, case
management systems and tools. Manage the resolution of high-risk and
sensitive employee relations issues, such as workplace investigations and
conflict resolution. Provide expert advice to management on employee
relations matters, including interpretation of policies, labour law and best
practice. Manage the coordination of misconduct and disciplinary cases within
applicable deadlines. Ensure that the Department is sufficiently represented at
all disciplinary hearings. Provide advice to line managers in the administration
of their labour contracts and discipline management. Manage labour disputes
and provide support to legal services on litigation related cases. Lead and
direct internal procedures and external interventions with third parties’ dispute
resolution matters, in order to reach a mutually agreeable solution through
negotiations. Manage disciplinary hearings, and other disputes, often
representing the Department in negotiations or hearings. Lead and direct the
analysis and interpretation of information / trends to address and resolve non-
routine business-related concerns. Provide advice and counsel to
management in collective bargaining, contract interpretation and discipline
matters. Research trends and practices in employee relations and recommend
programs that will improve and maintain employer and employee relations in
the Department. Represent the Department in all bargaining structures and
Consultative Forums. Ensure that the Department is represented in mediation
and labour arbitration hearings. Provide expert advice on grievances and
13
matters relating to collective bargaining and conflict resolution. Develop the
operational plan for the Directorate and ensure effective prioritisation and
resource planning. Provide strategic direction within the directorate.
Coordinate and monitor the delivery of the Operational plan against the agreed
objectives and timeframes. Report on the performance of the Directorate
against the business plan to the CD. Develop technical expertise within the
Directorate and keep abreast of technical developments. Ensure the
implementation of innovation initiatives. Provide advice and guidance on labour
relations policies, union engagements and collective bargaining aspects and
matters. Create and build partnerships with various internal and external
stakeholders in order to enhance service delivery. Ensure business
transformation and partnership with various stakeholders. Coach and guide
staff on compliance with all relevant regulatory, internal and external
compliance requirements. Report on all risk and financial indicators including
e.g. financial losses, overpayment, etc. according to the required format. Keep
up to date with compliance and regulatory requirements and liaise with all
relevant stakeholders within and external to the organisation to ensure
accurate implementation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Mkhaliphi Tel No: (012) 406 7109
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at (Linkshield Protected) erecruitment.dha.gov.za/original-
text:ZXJlY3J1aXRtZW50LmRoYS5nb3YuemEv; or sent via email to
hrrecruitment@dha.gov.za
14
ANNEXURE C
JUDICIAL INSPECTORATE FOR CORRECTIONAL SERVICES
The Judicial Inspectorate for Correctional Services (JICS) is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling
of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108
of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of JICS will be taken into consideration. People with
Disabilities will be accommodated within reasonable limits. Therefore, preference will be given to
candidates whose appointment will assist the JICS in achieving its Employment Equity targets in terms
of the JICS’s Employment Equity Plan.
CLOSING DATE : 10 October 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 20:00 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment and saved with
surname and initials. JPEG (picture/snapshot) applications will not be
accepted. Failure to do so will result in your application being disqualified.
Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each post(s)
advert must be accompanied by its own application form for employment and
must be fully completed, initialled and signed by the applicant as instructed
below. Failure to fully complete, initial and sign the Z83 form will lead to
disqualification of the application during the selection process. All applications
must reach the Judicial Inspectorate for Correctional Services (JICS) on/or
before the closing date and time. JICS cannot be held responsible for server
delays. Applications submitted in any other way other than the published link
or hand delivery will be treated as invalid. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of
the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on
the Z83, it is acceptable for applicants to indicate “refer to CV” or “see
attached”. However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-
appointment under Part “F” must be answered and the declaration signed. Only
an updated comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience if any) and
a completed and signed new Z83 application form is required. Posts of
Independent Correctional Centre Visitors (ICCV) also requires a
recommendation/nomination as an ICCV by a community organization (not
older than six (6) months) and must be attached to your application. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from Human Resources and such qualification(s)
and other related document(s) will be in line with the requirements of the advert.
Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate’s
suitability based on the posts’ technical and generic requirements. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your
information will be used for the sole purpose of this application and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. Due to
the large number of responses anticipated, correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application has been unsuccessful. The JICS reserves the right not to make
any appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s). The successful candidate
will be required to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement. All costs associated with an application will be borne by the
applicant. The appointment will be made according to the Public Service Act of
1994. JICS is committed to the achievement and maintenance of diversity and
15
equity employment, preference will be giving to Whites, Indian Females,
African Males, Coloured Males, and people living with disabilities.
OTHER POSTS
POST 34/17 : LAW CLERK REF NO: JI 152/2025
Office of the Inspecting Judge
36-month contract
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Senior Certificate/Grade 12, an LLB
degree or final year of study. Should have an interest in criminal law,
criminology, penology and human rights. Academic excellence and research
are required. Applicants should include a letter of motivation; curriculum vitae;
an example of written work between 6 – 12 pages in length which demonstrates
critical legal analysis and is written solely by the applicant; letters of
recommendation from 2 referees, together with their names and contact details
(including emails). Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Office);
Sound Interpersonal relations; Communication (verbal and written) skills;
Planning and organisational skills; Able to work under pressure, independently
and willingness to work extra hours; Problem solving and leadership skills;
Ability to pay attention to detail.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible to do research for the Inspecting
Judge; report writing, drafting and editing of correspondence and other official
documents; accompanying the Inspecting Judge on inspections and other
official duties; and performing ad hoc tasks allocated by the Inspecting Judge.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Sello Tel No: (012) 321 0303
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be submitted through following link:
https://forms.gle/exu3kmGcHSqwtsWp7 or hand delivered to Standard Bank
Building, No. 1 Thibault Square, 9th Floor, Cnr Long Street & Hans Strijdom
Avenue, Cape Town, 8001
POST 34/18 : VISITORS COMMITTEE COORDINATING OFFICER –VCCO REF NO: JI
153/2025
Directorate: Management Regions
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Western Cape Management Region – Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Senior Certificate/Grade 12,
Degree/National Diploma in Public Administrations/ Public Management, NQF
6 as recognised by SAQA. 3-year Degree/National Diploma in Office
Management or Administration recognised relevant qualification on NQF 6 or
equivalent qualification; a minimum of 5 years’ experience in the Justice Cluster
or a minimum of 2 years’ supervisory experience; Knowledge of the Public
Finance Management Act, Public Service Act and Regulations and National
Treasury Regulations; A valid driver’s licence. Skills and Competencies:
Computer literacy (MS Office), (Excel), (PowerPoint); Sound Interpersonal
relations; Communication (verbal and written) skills; Planning and
organizational skills; Able to work under pressure, independently and
willingness to work extra hours; Problem solving and leadership skills; Ability
to pay attention to detail. Good conflict resolution skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible to provide management,
supervision and control of Independent Correctional Centre Visitors.
Complaints Management, general, Urgent and Mandatory. Coordination of
Visitors Committee/Stakeholder engagement meetings. Conduct performance
evaluations, administration tasks, reporting and arrange inductions for
Independent Correctional Centre Visitors.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Sani Tel No: (021) 421 1012
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be submitted through following link:
https://forms.gle/Ee81KzXwRSxM1N16A or hand delivered to Standard Bank
Building, No. 1 Thibault Square, 9th Floor, Cnr Long Street & Hans Strijdom
Avenue, Cape Town, 8001
16
POST 34/19 : INDEPENDENT CORRECTIONAL CENTRE VISITOR
(36-month contract appointment)
(Posts to be filled from 1 March/1 April 2026)
SALARY : R85 620 per annum (Level 5 - 3/8th), plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Northern Management Region Correctional Centres:
Atteridgeville Ref No: 154/2025
Bethal Ref No: 155/2025
Kgosi Mampuru C-Max Ref No: 156/2025
Kgosi Mampuru Maximum Ref No: 157/2025
Kutama Sinthimule Ref No: 158/2025
Potchefstroom Ref No: 159/2025
Tzaneen Ref No: 160/2025
Wolmaransstad Ref No: 161/2025
Zeerust Ref No: 162/2025
Barberton Maximum (Ref No 163/2025
Boksburg Ref No: 164/2025
Emthonjeni Ref No: 165/2025
Johannesburg (Medium C) Ref No: 166/2025
Modderbee Ref No: 167/2025 (X2 Posts)
Nigel Ref No: 168/2025
Leeuwkop Maximum Ref No: 169 of 2025
Losperfontein Ref No: 170 of 2025
Middelburg Ref No: 171/2025
Witbank Ref No: 172/2025
Central Management Region Correctional Centres:
Bethlehem Ref No: 173/2025
Brandfort Ref No: 174/2025
De Aar Ref No: 175/2025
Edenburg Ref No: 176/2025
Frankfort Ref No: 177/2025
Goedemoed (Medium A) Ref No: 178/2025
Groenpunt Maximum Ref No: 179/2025 (X2 Posts)
Groenpunt Juvenile Ref No: 180/2025
Hoopstad Ref No: 181/2025
Mangaung Ref No: 182/2025 (X2 Posts)
Springbok Ref No: 183/2025
Vereeniging Ref No: 184/2025
KwaZulu Natal Management Region Correctional Centres:
Sevontein Ref No: 185/2025
Stanger Ref No: 186/2025
Durban (Medium A) Ref No: 187/2025
Durban (Medium B) Ref No: 188/2025
Umzinto Ref No: 189/2025
Eshowe Ref No: 190/2025
Estcourt Ref No: 191/2025
Ncome Maximum Ref No: 192/2025
Kokstad (Medium) Ref No: 193/2025
Ebongweni (Super Max) Ref No: 194/2025 (X2 Posts)
Eastern Cape Management Region Correctional Centres:
Port Elizabeth Ref No: 195/2025
King Williams Town Ref No: 196/2025
Middledrift Ref No: 197/2025
Queenstown Ref No: 198/2025
East London (Medium B) Ref No: 199/2025
Idutywa Ref No: 200/2025
Western Cape Management Region Correctional Centres:
Drakenstein (Medium A) Ref No: 201/2025
Hawequa Ref No: 202/2025
Beaufort West Ref No: 203/2025
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be submitted through the links mentioned above or hand
delivered to Block C 3, Eco Origins Office Park, Witch-hazel Street, Centurion,
0046
Atteridgeville: https://forms.gle/6tkYoNph4u3F8d9A8
Bethal: https://forms.gle/CkBAZUizXcZMjp8y7
Kgosi Mampuru C-Max: https://forms.gle/SBHSNN951Uxmn37q6
Kgosi Mampuru Maximum: https://forms.gle/Fyu6LyMKsYQDgbM77
17
Kutama Sinthimule: https://forms.gle/XeHv46xkPQeisECq6
Potchefstroom: https://forms.gle/63gj6fBaVR6uKmsC9
Tzaneen: https://forms.gle/St7My3fQ4qe6fudp8
Wolmaransstad: https://forms.gle/AFtA4fxAa2AVjqP18
Zeerust: https://forms.gle/nXs3f9Jo8SYKKC279
Barberton: https://forms.gle/v3KSSzoGmiSy8ePq7
Boksburg: https://forms.gle/HjL72EfBtQUtAToVA
Emthonjeni: https://forms.gle/zjs8nE4VjjzBaoW9A
Johannesburg (Medium C): https://forms.gle/iBHpwWB9A1JXy2Y89
Modderbee: https://forms.gle/zXpxzmvKZnMQwY839
Nigel: https://forms.gle/6nq8R5VbUDgJpwcPA
Leeuwkop Maximum: https://forms.gle/xYimsEyZDnjFcFFP7
Losperfontein: https://forms.gle/V6YK9thBgLEdq4zv5
Middelburg: https://forms.gle/M85VznYwVhvWyZQN9
Witbank: https://forms.gle/cz9trsSuuiRf4THQ6
Central Management Region Correctional Centres:
Applications to be submitted through the links mentioned above or hand
delivered to Fedsure House, 3rd Floor 62 St Andrews Street, Bloemfontein
9300
Bethlehem: https://forms.gle/ZbZEyHRWsfeTP8KD9
Brandfort: https://forms.gle/S31kY7xu4WkeJDSb6
De Aar: https://forms.gle/dhVnWc8xXzxaBT1p6
Edenburg: https://forms.gle/QWpdP8hNjs3s2uPHA
Frankfort: https://forms.gle/TfsPMjXc5e6wyuPV8
Goedemoed https://forms.gle/HxABeQ9yvxWBmNxs8
Groenpunt Maximum https://forms.gle/cA6kwNfBBJRM73mY9
Groenpunt Juvenile: https://forms.gle/idDgG44mVCQU1dDMA
Hoopstad: https://forms.gle/cKtLLrRz6KSxGVN26
Mangaung: https://forms.gle/DJZ7sq9tF1RzbSuD7
Springbok: https://forms.gle/hYBnxMFVAeE9qPWP9
Vereeniging: https://forms.gle/fNAAeXrp5hVFTxR36
KwaZulu Natal Management Region Correctional Centres:
Applications to be submitted through the links mentioned above or hand
delivered to Aqua Sky Building, 275 Anton Lembede Street, 8th Floor, Durban
4001
Sevontein https://forms.gle/26iKi3q2bc6bRsqR9
Stanger https://forms.gle/rvFMVH3TH6Tn335o9
Durban (Medium A) https://forms.gle/9WTqFkYSje7QDps36
Durban (Medium B) https://forms.gle/AyPNJivMcuajx8ma8
Umzinto https://forms.gle/v4Nu9DREQ6SPZn526
Eshowe https://forms.gle/Mxz4ojSagXHe8GLW8
Estcourt https://forms.gle/JT9ZUsihT6fvj72LA
Ncome Maximum https://forms.gle/iJJakoX9n93LDWjF8
Kokstad (Medium) https://forms.gle/LS9D82MK8WGZ2iGb8
Ebongweni (Super Max) https://forms.gle/2LHXCYayJ9Vt2EQt5
Eastern Cape Management Region Correctional Centres:
Applications to be submitted through the links mentioned above or hand
delivered to East London Magistrates Court, 3rd floor, room 407, Buffalo Street,
East London, 5200 Eastern Cape Management Region Correctional Centres:
Port Elizabeth https://forms.gle/QMY14yDwxE7NoMEr6
King Williams Town https://forms.gle/gPNwS1XcTorVzegM6
Middledrift https://forms.gle/cZDs1Y3AMmFzXexUA
Queenstown https://forms.gle/TRL9FAqLfJrarQgM8
East London (Medium B) https://forms.gle/iL8ZXTVhnKj7zvf17
Idutywa https://forms.gle/q7aPHcze6FJJyBej9
Western Cape Management Region Correctional Centres:
Applications to be submitted through the links mentioned above or hand
delivered to Standard Bank Building, No. 1 Thibault Square, 9th Floor, Cnr
Long Street & Hans Strijdom Avenue, Cape Town, 8001Western Cape
Management Region Correctional Centres:
Drakenstein (Medium A) https://forms.gle/Ad2DuvDHKd7hePix8
Hawequa https://forms.gle/MqaMzHH8mW1qgwiM9
Beaufort West https://forms.gle/Tf4QE4h3zEsVYDJj9
ENQUIRIES : Central Management Region: Ms Y Mdlalose Tel No: (051) 4301954
Kwa-Zulu Natal Management Region: Mr. S Sibanyoni Tel No:(031) 366 1900
Northern Management Region: Ms G Thabethe Tel No: (012) 663 7521
Western Cape Management Region: Mr S Sani Tel No: (021) 421 1012
18
Eastern Cape Management Region: Ms N Sifesane Tel No: (043) 722 2729
19
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development’s mandate is to ensure that there is
accessible justice system in our vibrant and evolving constitutional democracy. It is responsible,
amongst others, to enable Access to Justice for all, promote Constitutionalism, Rule of Law, Respect for
Human Rights; and to coordinate the State Litigation and Legal Advisory Services. The Department is
therefore presenting an opportunity to dynamic individuals with relevant competencies to join a dynamic
team in its quest to fulfill its mandate and deliver justice services to the people of South Africa.
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
NOTE : The application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that do
not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for
submission. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications.
All shortlisted candidates for posts will be subjected to a technical and/or
competency assessment. A pre-entry certificate obtained from National School
of Government (NSG) is required before appointment for all SMS positions.
Candidate will complete a financial disclosure form and also be required to
undergo a security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must
provide the Police Clearance certificate from country of origin only when
shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of
vacant posts the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South
Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant
Human Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Reasonable accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities
including where driver’s license is a requirement. Correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not hear from us within 3
months of this advertisement, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Target.
OTHER POSTS
POST 34/20 : STATE LAW ADVISOR: (LP7-LP8) REF NO: 25/111/LD (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R932 904 – R1 539 321 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : LLB Degree or recognized 4 year legal qualification; At least 5 years
appropriate post qualification litigation / advisory experience of which
legislative drafting and conducting legal research forms a component;
Admission as an Attorney or Advocate; Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA); Knowledge and experience in Constitutional Law,
Administrative Law, International Law and Labour Law. Skills and
Competencies: Legal research and legislative drafting skills; Problem solving
and decision making skills; Analytical thinking; Communication skills (verbal
and written); Project management skills; Computer literacy; Ability to work
under pressure and independently; Planning and organizing
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Investigate, evaluate, draft new and amend primary
and subordinate legislation which has a bearing on the line functions of the
Department; Conduct Socio-economic on matters pertaining to primary and
subordinate legislation (after analyzing relevant policies); Conduct legal
research on matters pertaining to primary and subordinate legislation (after
analyzing relevant policies); Draft memoranda, reports and government
20
notices; Draft and prepare the necessary documents to present Bills to Clusters
and Parliament; Evaluate and give inputs on draft legislation prepared by other
Departments.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Sema Tel No: (012) 315 1333
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001.OR Physical address:
Application Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Street, Pretoria or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 34/21 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND RECEIVABLE REF NO:
25/110/FMS
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package). The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 in Financial Management/ Financial Accounting/ B Com
Accounting/ Auditing/ Cost Accounting as recognized by SAQA; A minimum of
3 years’ experience in Financial Accounting environment at managerial
(Assistant Director) level; Knowledge and understanding of Public Finance
Management Act; Public Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations and
Treasury Directives. Skills and Competencies: Strategic capability leadership;
Programme and project management; Budgeting and financial management;
Change management; Knowledge management; Service Delivery Innovation
(SDI); People management and empowerment; Client orientation and
customer focus; Communication; Teamwork; Computer literacy; Honesty and
integrity.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage the administration of accounts payable and
receivable; Manage the processing of accounts payable; Manage the collection
of accounts receivable; Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Van Ross Tel No: (012) 315 1094
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resource: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001. or Physical Address:
Application Box, First Floor, Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Building, Pretoria, 0001 or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 34/22 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
25/109/CS
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 qualification in Human Resource Management / Human
Resource Development/ Management of Training / Industrial and
Organisational Psychology as recognized by SAQA; A minimum of 3 years’
experience in Human Resource Development environment at supervisory
level; Knowledge of Performance Management Systems, Skills Development
Act, Skills Levy Act, Adult Basic Education and Training Act, Employment
Equity Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Departmental Bursary
Schemes; Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service statutory
frameworks: Financial Management and regulatory framework/guidelines,
Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations,
Departmental Financial Instructions, Public Finance Management Act,
Government initiatives and decisions. Skills and Competencies: Applied
strategic thinking; Applied technology; Budgeting and financial management;
Communication and information management; Citizen focus and
responsiveness; Diversity management; Impact and influence; Managing
interpersonal conflict and resolving problems; Planning and organizing;
Decision making; Project management; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Facilitate the implementation of Skills Development
programmes; Facilitate the implementation of Internship & Learnership
programmes; Facilitate the implementation of study assistance programmes;
Facilitate the payments process for the programmes; Maintain partnerships
with relevant stakeholders; Manage human, finance and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Van Ross Tel No: (012) 315 1094
21
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resource: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001. or Physical Address:
Application Box, First Floor, Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Building, Pretoria, 0001 or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 34/23 : SENIOR COURT INTERPRETER REF NO: 2025/78/GP
SALARY : R257 508 – R303 339 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Cullinan
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 4/ Grade 12 and National Diploma in Legal Interpreting at NQF 5 or
any other relevant tertiary qualification at NQF 5 and a minimum of three years
practical experience in court interpreting; OR Grade 12 with 10 year’s practical
experience in court interpreting; A valid driver’s license; Proficiency in English
and in two or more indigenous languages; Language requirements: English,
Isindebele, Sepedi and Isizulu. Skills and Competencies: Good communication
skills (verbal and written); Computer literacy (Ms Word and Excel);
Administrative and organizational skills; Sound interpersonal relations; Ability
to work under pressure; Time management; Problem solving; Analytical
thinking; Accuracy and attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render interpreting services. Translate legal
documents and exhibits; Develop terminology; Assist with reconstruction of
Court Records; Make arrangements for foreign language interpreters in
consultation with the prosecutor; Perform specific line and administrative
support functions; Assist with capturing on ICMS; Supervise Court Interpreters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Shiburi Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Office, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000 OR Physical address:
Department of Justice and Constitutional Development; 7th floor Schreiner
Chambers, 94 Pritchard Street; Johannesburg Or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 34/24 : MESSENGER (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 359 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Office of The Family Advocate, Upington Ref No: 26/25/NC/FA-UPT (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Atteridgeville Ref No: 2025/77/GP (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10/ Abet qualification; A valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies:
Interpersonal skills; Creative thinking; Customer service orientation; Problem
analysis; Self-management; Ability to work in a team; Technical proficiency.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render driver/messenger support services; Collect
correspondence, distribute mail and parcels to various offices; Collect
documents from respective government institutions; Transport officials to
various destinations; Render clerical support services.
ENQUIRIES : Northern Cape: Mr J. Tope Tel No: (053) 802 1300
Gauteng Ms V Shiburi Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Northern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: Postal address: The Provincial Head: Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X6106, Kimberley, 8300. OR hand delivers at the
New Public Buildings, (Magistrates Court) of Knight and Stead Streets, 7th
floor, Kimberley 8301 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu Applicants
who wish to post their application forms are encouraged to utilize courier
services in light of the current postal service challenges.
Gauteng: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal address: The Provincial Head: Justice and Constitutional Development,
Private Bag X6, Johannesburg, 2000.OR Physical address: 7th floor; Provincial
Office – Gauteng; Department of Justice and Constitutional Development;
Schreiner Chambers, Corner Pritchard and Kruis Street OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference no.
22
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : The application must include only a completed and signed new Z83 Form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the Department of Public
Service and Administration (DPSA) website link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ and a detailed Curriculum Vitae
which may be posted, hand delivered or e-mailed using the addresses provided
for in each advertisement, note only the Z83 and detailed Curriculum Vitae
should be attached and must be limited to 10 megabytes and submitted as a
PDF document. The DLRRD will not be held responsible for server delays.
Certified copies of Identity Document, Grade 12 Certificate and the highest
required qualifications as well as a driver’s licence where necessary and
service certificates to support senior management experience, will only be
submitted by shortlisted candidates to Human Resources on or before the day
of the interview date. Failure to do so will result in your application being
disqualified. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation
report issued by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by SAQA
and to provide proof of such evaluation report (only when shortlisted). The
requirements for appointment at the Senior Management Service (SMS) level
include the successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-entry
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG). Prior
to appointment, a candidate would be required to complete the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS as endorsed by DPSA which is an
online course, endorsed by the NSG. The course is available at the NSG under
the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the full details can be sourced
by the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/.No appointment will take place without the successful completion
of the pre-entry certificate and submission of proof thereof. All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS, are required to undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical assessment, and the other will be an
integrity (Ethical Conduct) assessment. Selection committees will score both
pre-entry assessments as an additional criterion in the interview process, to
determine the candidate’s suitability based on post technical and generic
requirements. Following the interview, practical exercise and integrity
assessment for SMS positions, the selection committee will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment in
compliance with the DPSA Directive on the Implementation of Competency
Based Assessments. The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. NB Please note that false or fraudulent qualifications
submitted by applicants will be reported to the South African Police Services
(SAPS), and a criminal case shall be opened. Applications: Please ensure that
you submit your application before the closing date as no late applications will
be considered. Candidates are discouraged from submitting duplicate
applications. If you apply for more than 1 post, please submit separate
applications for each post that you apply for. Due to the large number of
applications, we envisage to receive, applications will not be acknowledged.
Should you not be contacted within 3 months of the closing date of the
advertisement, please consider your application to be unsuccessful. Should,
during any stage of the recruitment process, a moratorium be placed on the
filling of posts or the Department is affected by any process such as, but not
limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts, the Department reserves the
right to cancel the recruitment process and re-advertise the post at any time in
the future. Important: DLRRD is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representivity in DLRRD through the
filling of posts. Females and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
The Department reserves the right not to fill a position. In compliance with the
Protection of Personal Information Act 4 of 2013 (POPIA), the DLRRD assures
all applicants that any personal information provided during the recruitment
process will be treated with the utmost confidentiality and used solely for
recruitment purposes. Your privacy and data security are of paramount
importance to us. By applying for any of these posts, you consent to the
collection, processing (including dissemination to third parties for purposes of
23
verification of qualifications, credit record, criminal record, etc), and storage of
your personal information for recruitment and selection-related activities only.
The DLRRD is committed to safeguarding your privacy and maintaining the
trust you place in us. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to Personnel Suitability
Checks. The successful candidate will be subjected to undergo security vetting.
DLRRD will conduct reference checks which may include social media profiles
of the shortlisted candidates. Applicants must declare any pending criminal,
disciplinary or any other allegations or investigations against them. Should this
not be declared and uncovered during / after the interview took place, the
application will not be considered and in the unlikely event that the person has
been appointed such appointment will be terminated. The successful candidate
will be appointed subject to positive results of the security clearance process.
The successful candidate will be required to enter into an employment contract
and sign an annual performance agreement and annually disclose her or his
financial interests with the Department. All applicants are required to declare
any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships of Boards
and directorships that they may be associated with.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 34/25 : DIRECTOR-GENERAL REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/1
(5-year contract appointment)
SALARY : R2 352 642 per annum (Level 16), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Office Of the Director-General: Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate
to the SMS), Grade 12 Certificate and a minimum qualification at NQF Level 8
as recognised by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Minimum
of 10 years’ experience at senior management level in a large organisation and
the ability to provide strategic leadership and direction to the current team of
the Department of Land Reform and Rural Development. Job related
knowledge: Thorough understanding of the political mandate of Department.
Demonstrate leadership in the development and high-level policy
implementation skills. Understanding of key government priorities, insight into
the global and South African economy. Conversant with the structure and
operation of the Sector. Knowledge and extensive experience in, policy,
research, constitution and legislation of land reform and rural development.
Thorough knowledge and understanding of the Public Finance Management
Act (PFMA). Ability to provide strategic leadership aimed at supporting the
vision and mission of the Department including, intergovernmental relations
and international relations. Ability to implement outcome-based performance
management system. Extensive senior managerial experience in the
management of financial and human resources. Proven ability to innovate. Job
related skills: Political and Administrative Executive management skills, Highly
developed liaison skills. Communication skills (verbal and writing) and
negotiation skills. High level planning, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation skills. Coordination and facilitation skills. Project management skills.
Change management skills. A valid driver’s licence. Personal Attributes:
Confidentiality, fairness, respect, and honesty, ethical and empathetic
leadership, professionalism, integrity, good interpersonal relations, team-work,
People oriented (Ubuntu), and stakeholder and networking responsiveness,
Energy, drive, enthusiasm, problem-solving, innovative and courageous.
DUTIES : Ensure delivery of programmes and projects in accordance with the mandate
of the Department. Provide fully and effective support to the Executive
Authority. Develop and co-ordinate policies and programmes in support of the
implementation of land reform. Manage rural development strategies for socio-
economic growth. Manage the process of access to rights in land including land
ownership and sustainable development. Manage deeds registration and other
documents. Coordinate and administer cadastral surveys. Provide for spatial
planning and land use management services. Provide corporate support
services. Provide the Department with sound financial management services.
Oversee and coordinate provincial and district operations of departmental
24
services and programmes. Manage the process of policy research, analysis
and development. Ensure all the policies and laws of the department are
rationalized to be in line with the 1996 Constitution. Formulate, coordinate and
implement strategic framework of the Department of Land Reform and Rural
Development. Develop and align the Department strategy with government
regulatory framework. Develop strategies and guidelines for management and
decision making. Develop and implement appropriate policies and regulatory
mechanisms to promote integration of government development programmes.
Facilitate good governance in the Department and create a framework for good
governance for public entities reporting to the Minister of Land Reform and
Rural Development. Ensure inter-governmental relations. Ensure the
departmental governance structure is in place. Ensure stakeholder
engagement and stakeholder relations are maintained. Ensure the department
complies timeously with all Parliamentary and Cabinet requirements. Monitor
and evaluate cooperation amongst governments stakeholders to achieve
improved service delivery. Build and enhance the governance system in order
to enable service delivery and sustainable growth. Identify risk indicators and
mitigate the risk. Coordinate and facilitate delivery on all areas of the Minister
performance contract. Provide a continuous feedback and routine reports to
the Minister. Provide leadership and initiative in terms of programmes and
projects delivery. Apply and promote all Batho Pele principles. Strengthen the
department’s organisational capacity and performance to deliver on the
mandate. Render sound human resources management and development,
security and information management services. Provide the Department with
sound financial services. Provide the Department with legal and
communication services and promote intergovernmental, international and
stakeholder relations. Direct the provision of policy analysis, research,
formulation, planning and monitoring and evaluation in order to facilitate the
improvement of the department’s performance. Ensure integration among key
resource strategies and their alignment with medium term expenditure
framework. Promote good, happy and humane relations with all employees and
the labour relations in general.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P van Niekerk Tel No: (012) 312 9550
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by post to: Private Bag X833, Pretoria, 0001 or
hand delivered during office hours to: 600 Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known
as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park, Pretoria, 0002 or by email to
P1@dlrrd.gov.za
POST 34/26 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: CORPORATE SUPPORT SERVICES REF
NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/2
Branch: Corporate Support Services
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum (Level 15), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate
to the SMS), Grade 12 Certificate and minimum qualification at NQF Level 8
as recognised by South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Minimum of 8
years’ experience at senior managerial level in the corporate support services
and other related or relevant environments. Job related knowledge: Client
oriented and customer focus. Programme and project management. Ability to
conduct Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Audit. Ability to manage
projects and ability to conduct Threat Risk Assessment (TRA). Accounting
policies and procedures, understanding human resources and labour relations
policies, Job related skills: Liaison skills. Strategic capability and leadership
skills. Communication skills (verbal and writing). Decisive and Diplomatic skills.
Report writing skills. Investigation skills. Financial management skills. Budget
compilation skills. Executive authority and senior administrative executives’
management skills. Project Management skills. A valid driver’s licence.
Personal Attributes: Ethical and empathetical leadership, Integrity,
Teamworker, Diplomatic negotiator, Accessibility, Problem solver, Work under
serious stress, People oriented (Ubuntu), Hardworking and innovative.
DUTIES : Ensure effective, efficient, and fair management of human resources. Render
human resource management services. Render human resource development
services. Facilitate sound employee relations. Manage human resource
25
information services. Provide organisational development and service delivery
improvement services. Manage and monitor the coordination of human
resource transformation strategies, diversity management strategies and
plans. Provide Information and Communication Technology (ICT) management
services to support organisational objectives. Ensure alignment of ICT and
business strategy. Ensure a stable ICT environment that enables the efficient
and effective utilisation of information technology. Develop, implement and
maintain ICT solutions. Ensure ICT service availability, service delivery and
service optimisation. Provide knowledge, information and records
management services. Render legal services and support for the Department.
Manage litigations, both on behalf of and against the department. Facilitate the
process of legislation development. Provide security and facilities management
services. Manage document security and Occupational Health and Safety
(OHS) compliance. Manage vetting, screening and investigations. Manage
physical security and special events. Provide facilities, office management,
public and private partnership services. Provide financial management and
administrative support services. Provide strategic planning, monitoring, and
evaluation services. Monitor and report on the performance of the Corporate
services in line with strategic plans, annual performance plans and operational
plans. Oversee the integrated departmental planning processes, coordinate
the approval, and review process of operational and strategic plans. Conduct
evaluation assessments related to the programmes of the Department.
Manage monitoring and evaluation functions and provide technical support to
provincial departments and public entities. Provide communication services.
Provide corporate communications, marketing and print production
management services. Provide language, media and external communication
services. Provide financial and administrative support. Manage financial
management support. Oversee the administration support and advisory
services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P van Niekerk Tel No: (012) 312 9550
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by post to: Private Bag X833, Pretoria, 0001 or
hand delivered during office hours to: 600 Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known
as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park, Pretoria, 0002 or by email to
P2@dlrrd.gov.za
POST 34/27 : CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/3
Branch: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum (Level 15), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate
to the SMS), Grade 12 Certificate and minimum qualification at NQF Level 8 in
Accounting / Business Administration / Commerce / Supply Chain
Management / Public Finance as recognised by South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA). Minimum of 8 years’ experience in a senior managerial
position. Job related knowledge: Must demonstrate high level of competency
in financial administration, financial accounting and supply chain management.
Experience and knowledge in Generally Recognised Accounting Principles
(GRAP) system and modified cash standards. Knowledge of the public sector
budget reform process. Ability to effectively manage alignment of budget with
priority programmes of service delivery. Ability to act as change agent and
manage in accordance with the strategic vision and objective of the
Department. Knowledge of financial management in relation to the new
regulatory framework for the Public Service e.g. Public Financial Management
Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations, the Public Service Act and Public
Service Regulations. Understand the Constitutional mandate and key priorities
of the department. Cash flow forecasting. Job related skills: Communication
skills (verbal and written) and Negotiation skills. Monitoring and evaluation
skills. Coordination and facilitation skills. Financial analysis and analytical
skills. Problem solving within Financial and supply chain legal framework. Risk
management skills. Liaison, leadership and supportive skills to the entire
department. Project management skills. Change management skills. Excellent
people management skills and interpersonal skills. A valid driver’s licence.
Personal Attributes: Departmental empowerment on Financial and supply
26
chain requirements, Integrity, Ethical and empathetic leadership, Good
interpersonal relations, ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines,
Ability to work in a team and independently, Strong character, Problem solving
and analysis, decisive decision making, client orientation and customer focus,
Proactive Communication with all stakeholders, Good financial judgement.
DUTIES : Manage and render supply chain management services. Manage demand
management plan and acquisition services. Manage logistics, assets and
contract management. Ensure that internal procedures and control measures
are in place. Provide advice and contribute towards the financial aspects of the
strategic planning process of the Department. Compile delegations of authority
in respect of financial and procurement matters that ensure that the accounting
officer approves them. Provide inputs into the formulation of the medium-term
objectives, policies, and strategies in support of the strategic and operational
plans of the Department. Monitor and oversee the collection of revenue by the
Department. Manage governance and assurance management services.
Provide timely and accurate financial and operational information necessary
for strategic decision making to all Branches. Compilation of accurate annual
financial statement and timeous submission in accordance with applicable
standards and legislative requirements. Good audit outcomes.
Responsiveness towards queries from AGSA, Parliament and audit
committees. Ensure effective management and implementation of good
corporate governance in the department. Manage the budget performance
services. Manage budget performance. Provide financial performance.
Manage state of expenditure. Provide financial and administrative support.
Render office service support. Provide supply chain support. Facilitate,
coordinates and administer projects.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P van Niekerk Tel No: (012) 312 9550
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by post to: Private Bag X833, Pretoria, 0001 or
hand delivered during office hours to: 600 Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known
as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park, Pretoria, 0002 or by email to
P3@dlrrd.gov.za
POST 34/28 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT SERVICES REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2025/4
Chief Directorate: Supply Chain Management Services
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package.) The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate
to the SMS), Grade 12 Certificate and minimum qualification at NQF Level 7 in
Supply Chain Management / Public Administration / Economics / Accounting /
Finance / Logistics. Minimum of 5 years’ experience at a senior managerial
level in the supply chain management field. Job related knowledge: Knowledge
of the following: Supply Chain Management Framework, Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA), Knowledge of corporate
governance issues, Knowledge of Compliance Management, Knowledge of
Public Service environment, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and
Treasury Regulations. Job related skills: Leadership skills. Computer literacy
skills. Management skills. Project management skills. Communication skills
(verbal and written). Conflict resolution skills. Excellent facilitation skills. Public
speaking skills / presentation skills. Negotiating skills. Good customer relations.
Advanced report writing skills. Language proficiency. Analytical thinking and
strategic planning. Problem solving skills. Good judgment and decision making.
Strong insistence on value for money. Tough negotiators. Organisational
Planning and coordination skills. Problem solving. A valid driver’s licence.
Personal Attributes: Unquestionable integrity, Unimpeachable ethical conduct,
Incorruptibly, Patriotism, Fair minded, Ability to interact with clients and
stakeholders, professionalism and assertiveness, meet deadlines whilst
delivering good results, promote teamwork, Good financial and business
judgement.
DUTIES : Manage demand management plan and acquisition services. Manage demand
and acquisition services. Develop Integrated Demand Management Plan
(IDMP). Develop and manage annual Procurement Plan. Facilitate annual
appointment of Bid Evaluation Committee (BEC) and Bid Adjudication
27
Committee (BAC) members for National and Provincial Office. Manage the
function of Adjudication of bids / tenders Committees. Develop sourcing
strategies for the procurement plan submitted to National Treasury. Ensure
compliance of number of days taken to award bids / tender after BEC
recommendation report within the approved turnaround times. Management of
contract management functions. Maintain policy and manage performance,
compliance and client relation services. Oversee supply chain management
training. Ensure compliance with policy and procedures. Ensure that
inspections are undertaken. Ensure that trends analysis is conducted. Manage
the call centre facility. Develop and maintain policy and manage compliance.
Monitor compliance with relevant legislative frameworks, policies governing
Supply Chain Management Services (SCMS). Provide logistical and asset
management services. Manage logistics services. Manage fleet services and
travel arrangements. Manage asset services (acquisition and disposal).
Manage annual and bi-annual asset verification and monthly reconciliation of
Barcoded Asset Audit (BAUD) system and Basic Accounting System (BAS)
general ledger. Maintain payment of Logis invoices within 30 days from receipt
of invoice. Provide financial and administrative support. Monitor and improve
SCM processes/systems. Provide strategic solutions, coordination and fast-
tracking delivery. Effective monitoring and evaluation of tenders. Ensure
effective management of financial resourcing allocated to SCM including being
innovative. Render office service support.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P van Niekerk Tel No: (012) 312 9550
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by post to: Private Bag X833, Pretoria, 0001 or
hand delivered during office hours to: 600 Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known
as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park, Pretoria, 0002 or by email to
P4@dlrrd.gov.za
28
ANNEXURE F
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY
The NPA is an equal opportunity employer. People with disabilities will be given preference and are
encouraged to apply. In the filling of vacancies, the objectives of Section 195(1)(i) of the Constitution of
the Republic of South Africa,1996, and in particular the Employment Equity Act,1998 (Act 55 of 1998) and
the NPA Employment Equity Strategy 2022-2026, will take highest preference in selection of suitable
candidates.
APPLICATIONS : All applications must be submitted to the relevant Recruitment Response E
mails stated below.
CLOSING DATE : 07 October 2025
NOTE : Applicants must apply by submitting applications on the most recent Z83 form
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA web site link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ and a comprehensive CV only (with
detailed experience information). Failure to do so will result in your application
being disqualified. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on or before the
day of the interview following communication from Human Resources. Foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by SAQA
(only when shortlisted). It is the applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign
qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such evaluation (only
when shortlisted). If the Z83 is not completed as prescribed your application
will not be accepted. All applications must reach the NPA on/or before the
closing date. No late applications will be accepted/processed. Documents
should not be password protected, and ZIP files will be blocked. The NPA
cannot be held responsible for server delays. All applications must reach the
NPA on/or before the closing date. No late applications will be
accepted/processed. The applicant’s attention is drawn to the fact that the NPA
uses an Electronic Response Handling System in terms of e-mailed
applications. Please do not contact the NPA directly after you have e-mailed
your applications to enquire if your application(s) have been received. If you
have not received an acknowledgement of receipt within one week after the
closing date, then you can contact the NPA. The NPA reserves the right not to
fill any particular position. If you do not hear from us within (6) six months from
the closing date of the advert, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Successful candidates will be subjected to a security clearance
of at least confidential. Appointment to this position will be provisional, pending
the issue of security clearance. Fingerprints will be taken on the day of the
interview. The social media accounts of shortlisted applicants may be accessed
as part of the verification process. A valid driver’s license will be a requirement
where applicable. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments which are, a practical exercise and an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment. SMS posts will be subjected to a technical
exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics
of which will be communicated by the NPA. Following the interview and
technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a
generic managerial competency-based assessment (in compliance with the
DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments).
The competency assessment will test generic managerial competencies using
the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. A Pre-entry
certificate obtained from the National School of Government (NSG) is required
for all SMS applicants for Public Service Act positions in the NPA (SMS pre-
entry certificate to be submitted prior to appointment). NPA Act appointments
are exempted from the pre-entry certificate requirement. This is a Public
Service specific training programme. The name of the course is Certificate for
entry into the SMS. The full details can be sourced from the link
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/..
Applicants are advised that from 1 January 2021 a new application form for
employment (Z83) is in use. The new application for employment form can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. From 1 January 2021 should an
application be received using the incorrect (old) application for employment
(Z83), it will not be considered. NB! applicants who are successful must please
note that the NPA is not in a position to pay resettlement costs. NB! All
employees considered for appointment to the Investigating Directorate Against
Corruption will be subject to a lifestyle audit and integrity vetting.
29
ERRATUM: The post of Director: Performance Information Management with
Ref No: Recruit 2025/375 advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 22
dated 27 June 2025 and Deputy Director of Public Prosecutions - AFU:
Polokwane with Ref No: Recruit 2025/390 advertised in Public Service
Vacancy Circular 26 dated 25 July 2025 are hereby withdrawn.
OTHER POSTS
POST 34/29 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R1 563 183 per annum (Level 14), (total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Bloemfontein Ref No: Recruit 2025/456 (Re-advert)
Johannesburg Ref No: Recruit 2025/457
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Knowledge and experience in Strategic and Operations
Management. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Good advocacy and legal
drafting skills. Knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Good
interpersonal, analytical, presentation and communication skills. Computer
skills. Valid drivers license.
DUTIES : Manage the portfolio assigned by the Director which will include oversight of
strategic management and operations management in the region. Manage,
train and guide Advocates, Prosecutors and stakeholders in respect of all
matters, including complex / high profile matters, in the high court, the highest
court of appeal and the constitutional court. Investigate and prosecute cases.
Provide legal oversight and guidance in investigation projects and legal
casework. Study case dockets and other documents relating to corruption
matters, criminal matters, make and review decisions with regard to the
institution of criminal proceedings. Prepare cases for court including the
acquisition of additional evidence and drafting charge sheets, indictments and
other court documents. Present the state’s case in court, including examination
and cross-examination of witnesses and addressing the court on conviction
and sentence. Study appeals and reviews, prepare opinions and heads of
argument and argue cases in the appropriate court. Appear in motion
applications pertaining to criminal matters. Map out strategic planning for the
division and lead staff members towards achieving the strategic objectives.
Oversee resources and align them to strategic objectives. Development,
performance management and assessment of staff members. Deal with
representations and complaints. Ensure that a high standard of professional
work is being carried out. Promote partner integration, community involvement
and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice
system.
ENQUIRIES : DPP: Bloemfontein Lemmer Ludwick Tel No: (051) 410 6001
DPP: Johannesburg Charity Matika Tel No: (011) 220 4235
APPLICATIONS : DPP: Bloemfontein e mail: Recruit2025456@npa.gov.za
DPP: Johannesburg e mail: Recruit2025457@npa.gov.za
POST 34/30 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS REF NO: RECRUIT
2025/458
National Prosecutions Services
(Re-advert)
SALARY : R1 563 183 per annum (Level 14), (total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Bloemfontein (Tax Unit)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the
NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Extensive prosecutorial or
litigation experience regarding common law offences relating to tax
evasions/avoidance, commercial crimes, fraud and related matters. Sound
knowledge and understanding of SARS functions and financial accounting
30
background. Good advocacy and legal drafting skills. Strong organisational
leadership skills. Strong interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to think
strategically and innovatively and management. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage the portfolio assigned by the Director. Manage, train and guide
Advocates, Prosecutors and stakeholders in respect of all matters, including
complex / high profile matters, in the high court, the highest court of appeal and
the Constitutional Court. Studying and research law, enquiring and dockets
relating to crimes and advising and decisions thereon. Instituting and
conducting criminal proceedings in any court, including drawing up charge
sheets and indictments, interviewing prospective witnesses and examining and
cross-examining witnesses as well as presenting arguments in court and argue
cases. Consult on a regular basis with all relevant stakeholders and SARS
officials. Manage and keep SARS records for all criminal prosecutions and
statistics. Map out strategic planning for the division and lead staff members
towards achieving strategic objectives. Development, performance
management and assessment of staff members. Deal with representations and
complaints. Ensure that a high standard of professional work is being carried
out. Promote partner integration, community involvement and customer
satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Lemmer Ludwick Tel No: (051) 410 6001
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025458@npa.gov.za
POST 34/31 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS REF NO: RECRUIT
2025/459
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
(Re-advert)
SALARY : R1 563 183 per annum (Level 14), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Good advocacy and legal
drafting skills. Knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Good
interpersonal, analytical, presentation and communication skills. Computer
skills. Able to work extended hours. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage the portfolio assigned by the Director. Manage, train and guide
Advocates, Prosecutors and stakeholders in respect of all matters, including
complex / high profile matters, in the high court, the highest court of appeal and
the Constitutional Court. Investigate and prosecute cases. Provide legal
oversight and guidance in investigation projects and legal casework. Study
case dockets and other documents relating to corruption matters, criminal
matters, make and review decisions with regard to the institution of criminal
proceedings. Prepare cases for court including the acquisition of additional
evidence and drafting charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
Present the state’s case in court, including examination and cross-examination
of witnesses and addressing the court on conviction and sentence. Study
appeals and reviews, prepare opinions and heads of argument and argue
cases in the appropriate court. Appear in motion applications pertaining to
criminal matters. Map out strategic planning for the division and lead staff
members towards achieving the strategic objectives. Oversee resources and
align them to strategic objectives. Development, performance management
and assessment of staff members. Deal with representations and complaints.
Ensure that a high standard of professional work is being carried out. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Lemmer Ludwick Tel No: (051) 410 6001
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025459@npa.gov.za
POST 34/32 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS REF NO: RECRUIT
2025/465
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R1 563 183 per annum (Level 14), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Limpopo (Polokwane)
31
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Good advocacy and legal
drafting skills. Knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Good
interpersonal, analytical, presentation and communication skills. Computer
skills. Able to work extended hours. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage the portfolio assigned by the Regional Head. Manage, train and guide
Advocates, Prosecutors and stakeholders in respect of all matters, including
complex / high profile matters, in the high court, the highest court of appeal and
the Constitutional Court. Investigate and prosecute cases. To provide high level
and well researched opinions and reports to the Regional Head of the SCCU.
Provide legal oversight and guidance in investigation projects and legal
casework. Study case dockets and other documents relating to corruption
matters, criminal matters, make and review decisions with regard to the
institution of criminal proceedings. Prepare cases for court including the
acquisition of additional evidence and drafting charge sheets, indictments and
other court documents. Present the state’s case in court, including examination
and cross-examination of witnesses and addressing the court on conviction
and sentence. Study appeals and reviews, prepare opinions and heads of
argument and argue cases in the appropriate court. Appear in motion
applications pertaining to criminal matters. Map out strategic planning for the
division and lead staff members towards achieving the strategic objectives.
Oversee resources and align them to strategic objectives. Development,
performance management and assessment of staff members. Deal with
representations and complaints. Ensure that a high standard of professional
work is being carried out. Promote partner integration, community involvement
and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice
system.
ENQUIRIES : Thuba Thubakgale Tel No: (015) 045 0285
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025465@npa.gov.za
POST 34/33 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS REF NO: RECRUIT
2025/460
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R1 563 183 per annum (Level 14), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Good advocacy and legal
drafting skills. Knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Good
interpersonal, analytical, presentation and communication skills. Computer
skills. Able to work extended hours. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : To guide investigations and conduct prosecutions of identified cases. To
exercise oversight on any decision to prosecute, and to give any necessary
advice and report to the Head of the SCCU. To ensure that decisions to
prosecute or not prosecute comply with all relevant legal prescripts, the
Constitution, and all applicable policies, procedures and directive. To provide
high level and well researched opinions and reports to the Head of the SCCU.
To manage and direct governance and operations in the SCCU. To monitor and
review strategy and operations. To provide enterprise performance reports. To
liaise with regional offices and arrange meetings in this regard. To render
professional advice to the Head of the SCCU, as required. To ensure that plans
are in place to promote good stakeholder and partner engagement. To ensure
that the national strategy and annual plan of the SCCU are developed and
implemented. To monitor delivery of the regional offices in line with the strategy
and plan. In order to ensure that the regional offices meet targets, to
continuously analyse, review and monitor operational performance of the
offices in order, inter alia, to identify and operational deficiencies and to monitor
the achievement of strategic objectives and annual targets. To develop any
performance or delivery improvement plans or make such interventions as
32
circumstances may require. To oversee the development and implementation
of appropriate employee performance management systems. To initiate and
implement training initiative by establishing training needs both at national and
regional levels. To meet with relevant stakeholders on a regular basis in order
to effectively execute the mandate of SCCU.
ENQUIRIES : Flora Kalakgosi Tel No: (018) 381 9041
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025460@npa.gov.za
POST 34/34 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/461
Legal Affairs Division
SALARY : R1 195 110 - R1 859 814 per annum (LP-9), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Limpopo (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as contemplated in
section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Good knowledge of civil litigation and
criminal procedure. Ability to plan, prioritise and manage. Strong computer
skills and knowledge of MS Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint. Ability to
work independently. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Manage, train and guide Advocates, Prosecutors and stakeholders in respect
of all matters, including complex/high profile matters in the high court, the
highest court of appeal and the constitutional court. Investigate and prosecute
cases. Provide legal oversight and guidance in investigation projects and legal
casework. Study case dockets and other documents relating to civil matters,
make and review decisions with regard to the institution of civil proceedings.
Prepare civil proceedings for court including the acquisition of additional
evidence and drafting affidavits and responding or supplementary affidavits
and indictments and other court documents. Present the states’ case in court,
including examination and cross-examination of witnesses and addressing the
court on conviction and sentence. Study civil appeals and reviews, prepare
opinions and heads of argument and argue cases in the appropriate court.
Appear in motion applications pertaining to criminal matters. Map out strategic
planning for the division and lead staff members towards achieving the
strategic objectives. Oversee resources and align them to strategic objectives.
Development, performance management and assessment of staff members.
Deal with representations and complaints. Ensure that a high standard of
professional work is being carried out. Promote partner integration, community
involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the
criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Thuba Thubakgale Tel No: (015) 045 0285
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025461@npa.gov.za
POST 34/35 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R1 195 110 - R1 859 814 per annum (LP-9), (total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Limpopo (Polokwane) Ref No: Recruit 2025/462 (X5 Posts) (OCC)
DPP: Kimberley Ref No: Recruit 2025/463 (X4 Posts) (OCC)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in civil
and/or criminal litigation. Five (5) years’ experience in legal practice will be
added advantage. At least three (3) years’ experience in the prosecution of
organised crime cases. Admission as an advocate or attorney will be an added
advantage. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as contemplated in
section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. High level of proficiency in prosecuting
and presenting/arguing cases in court. Experience in guiding criminal
investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory offences.
Interpersonal skills. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Good
advocacy, well developed skills in legal research and legal drafting skills.
Knowledge of asset forfeiture law will be an added advantage. Strong computer
skills and knowledge of programs in MS Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint.
Written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Study case dockets, decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Deal with any representations. Guide investigations in complex
33
or more difficult matters, including commercial, corruption and organized crime
matters. Prepare cases for court, including acquisition of additional evidence
and draft charge sheets, indictments, heads of argument, opinions and all other
court documents. Represent the state in all courts, lead and cross examine
witnesses, address the court on inter alia, conviction and sentence. Manage
court and case flow management of cases independently. Study and deal with
appeals and reviews. Manage any portfolio assigned by the Deputy Director
managing the OCC. Mentor and guide DPCI and SAPS investigating officers,
prosecutors and stakeholders. Assist in high profile matters and matters where
an increased risk element is present. Promote partner integration, community
involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the
criminal justice system. Mentor and coach junior staff and quality check their
work. Participate in the performance assessment of staff being mentored.
ENQUIRIES : DPP: Limpopo (Polokwane) Thuba Thubakgale Tel No: (015) 045 0285
DPP: Kimberley Nicholas Mogongwa Tel No: (053) 807 4539
APPLICATIONS : DPP: Limpopo (Polokwane) e mail: Recruit2025462@npa.gov.za
DPP: Kimberley e mail: Recruit2025463@npa.gov.za
POST 34/36 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/464
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R1 195 110 - R1 859 814 per annum (LP-9), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Five (5) years’
experience in legal practice will be an added advantage. Ability to act
independently. Experience or knowledge in environmental cases will be an
added advantage. Strong interpersonal and communication skills. General
computer proficiency and knowledge of programs in MS Office. Valid drivers’
licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets, decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
Represent the State in all courts. Prepare cases for court, including the
acquisition of additional evidence and draft charge sheets, indictments and
court documents. Present the State’s case in court, lead and cross examine
witnesses, address the court on, inter alia, conviction and sentence. Attend to
representations, prepare opinions and head of arguments and argue cases in
appropriate court. Appear in court in motion application pertaining to criminal
matters and in general conduct prosecution on behalf of the state. Perform all
duties related thereto in accordance with the code of conduct policy and
directives of the NPA. Mentor and coach junior staff (Prosecutors/Advocates)
and quality check their work. Provide appropriate guidance and direction and
issue proper instructions to advocates/prosecutors/SAPS/DPCI on all aspects
of work. Participate in the performance assessment of staff being mentored.
Promote partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction
in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Bontle Bareng Tel No: (012) 401 9421
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025464@npa.gov.za
POST 34/37 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/466
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R1 195 110 - R1 859 814 per annum (LP-9), (total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Pietermaritzburg (STU)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in civil
and/or criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. At least 6 years of
relevant criminal court work experience in advocacy and drafting. Well-
developed skills in legal research. Good interpersonal, analytical,
organisational and communication skills. General computer literacy required.
Excellent administrative skills. Assist with the Performance management and
assessments of staff. Extensive prosecutorial or litigation experience regarding
34
commercial crimes, Fraud, Theft and other common law/statutory offences
relating to tax evasion is essential. Knowledge of legislation relating to Income
Tax, VAT, PAYE as well as the Tax Administration Act and the Customs and
Excise Act required. Knowledge of Company Law. Proficiency in prosecuting,
competency in guiding investigations in complex or more difficult matters,
including commercial matters, drafting charge sheets, indictments and court
documents, dealing with representations and conducting motion proceedings.
The ability to mentor, train and quality check the work of Advocates. Ability to
act independently without supervision and manage court and case flow
management independently. Required to travel to courts across the Division to
prosecute tax cases as and when required. Valid driver`s license is required.
DUTIES : To institute and conduct criminal proceedings on behalf of the State, to perform
any act incidental thereto and to carry out the duties and functions assigned to
the prosecution under any Act and/or the Policy Manual and/or any directives,
inter alia, to study case dockets, decide on the institution of and conduct
criminal proceedings of a complex nature. Prepare cases for court by inter alia
guiding the investigation, consulting with witnesses and acquiring additional
evidence. Draft charge sheets and indictments. Deal with any representations.
Present the State’s case in court. Present evidence, cross-examine and
address the court on inter alia, conviction and sentence. Study appeals and
reviews, prepare opinions and heads of argument for complex matters and
argue cases in the appropriate court with right of appearance. Appear in court
in motion applications pertaining to criminal matters and in general conduct
prosecutions on behalf of the State. Perform all duties, including administrative
duties and specific tasks assigned by the supervisor, related thereto in
accordance with the Code of Conduct, policy, and directives of the National
Prosecuting Authority. Supervise and manage performance of State
Advocate(s) (if so required). Conduct performance assessments of staff (if so
required). Quality check work of Advocates. Mentor and guide Advocates,
prosecutors, and stakeholders. Assist in the keeping of proper
records/statistics in relation to all criminal prosecutions conducted by the STU
and assist in compilation of statistics/reports. Middle management, including
appeals, court rolls (under supervision) and office inspections. Managing of
allocated portfolio within STU. Assist Deputy Directors in high-profile matters
or matters where an increased risk element is present. Promote partner
integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction
with partners in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Thabsile Radebe Tel No: (033) 392 8753
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025466@npa.gov.za
POST 34/38 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/467 (X4 POSTS)
Investigating Directorate Against Corruption
SALARY : R1 195 110 - R1 859 814 per annum (LP-9), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head office
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in civil
and/or criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Five (5) years’
experience in legal practice will be an added advantage. Ability to act
independently without supervision. Excellent administration skills. Financial or
accounting background an advantage. Experience in litigating offences in
terms of POCA, Companies Act, PRECCA, PFMA and FICA necessary. Good
knowledge of the Zondo Commission’ s recommendations. Knowledge of the
FATF recommendations for South Africa. Capable of prosecuting and guiding
investigations in voluminous and complex matters. Excellent drafting skills and
the ability to draft complex charge sheets, indictments, notice of motions,
applications for leave to appeal, heads of arguments, legal opinions and
memorandum. Litigation experience shall include litigation in the Superior
Courts including the handling of motions in the High Court and as well as
appeals and state appeals in High Court/Supreme Court/Constitutional Court.
Experience or knowledge in POCA legislation. Extensive prosecutorial or
litigation experience with regard to common law offences such as fraud, theft,
forgery and uttering, commercial crimes and related matters. Proficiency in
prosecuting, guiding investigations in complex or more difficult matters,
including commercial matters, drafting charge sheets, including indictments
35
and court documents, dealing with representations. Financial or accounting
background and knowledge of Company law be will required. General
computer literacy and knowledge of programs in MS Word; Excel, Outlook and
PowerPoint. Ability to act independently without supervision and manage court
and case flow management independently. Excellent administrative skills.
Personal and Professional Integrity. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Stakeholder engagement and decision making. Prosecutor led investigations
(PLI). Prosecution preparations. Court work. Operations management.
ENQUIRIES : Maureen Dibetle Tel No: (012) 845 7727
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025467@npa.gov.za
POST 34/39 : SENIOR PUBLIC PROSECUTOR
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 195 110 - R1 859 814 per annum (CM-1), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : CPP: Empangeni Ref No: Recruit 2025/468
CPP: Ntuzuma Ref No: Recruit 2025/469
CPP: Pretoria (Brits) Ref No: Recruit 2025/470
CPP: Durban (Umlazi) Ref No: Recruit 2025/471
CPP: Vaal Rand (Tsakane) Ref No: Recruit 2025/493
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience. Five
(5) years’ experience in legal practice will be an added advantage.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Good management skills. Manage, give
guidance to and train prosecutors. Proficiency in prosecuting, guiding
investigations and giving instructions in reasonably complex or more difficult
common law and statutory offences. Able to draft charge sheets and complex
court documents. Ability to act independently without constant supervision.
Must have good administrative skills.
DUTIES : Manage and supervise allocation of work and management of performance for
lower level prosecutors including trainee Prosecutor. Train and guide
Prosecutors including trainee Prosecutors and stakeholders in preparation of
case dockets and deciding on the institution and conduct criminal proceedings.
Represent the State in all courts. Present and assist prosecutors including
trainee Prosecutors in presentation of state’s case court, lead and cross
examination of witnesses and address court on inter alia conviction and the
like. Attend to representations and complaints. Attend to instructions of the
Chief Prosecutor and the Director of Public Prosecutions. Lead Prosecutors
towards achieving strategic goals and operational targets set by NPA, DPP
office and CPP. Perform all duties including administrative duties related
thereto, in accordance with code of conduct, policy directives of NPA. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Empangeni Thabsile Radebe Tel No: (033) 392 8753
CPP: Ntuzuma & CPP: Durban (Umlazi) Phiwayinkosi Nhlengethwa Tel No:
(031) 334 5003
CPP: Pretoria (Brits) Motshabi Malabi Tel No: (012) 351 6864
CPP: Vaal Rand (Tsakane) Godfrey Ramakuela Tel No: (012) 351 6808
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Empangeni e mail: Recruit2025468@npa.gov.za
CPP: Ntuzuma e mail: Recruit2025469@npa.gov.za
CPP: Pretoria (Brits) e mail: Recruit2025470@npa.gov.za
CPP: Durban (Umlazi) e mail: Recruit2025471@npa.gov.za
CPP: Vaal Rand (Tsakane) e mail: Recruit2025493@npa.gov.za
POST 34/40 : STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/472
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R932 904 - R1 539 321 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA
Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’ post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Well-developed skills in legal research and
legal drafting. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Proficiency
in prosecution, competency in guiding investigations, drafting charge sheets,
36
indictments and court documents and dealing with representations. Knowledge
of and skills in general prosecution. Good interpersonal, analytical,
organisational and communication skills. Ability to act independently or with
minimum supervision. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
Represent the State in all courts. Prepare a case for court, including the
acquisition of additional evidence, lead and cross examine witnesses, address
the court on inter alia, conviction and sentence. Study and deal with appeals
and reviews, attend to representations, prepare opinions and heads of
arguments. Conduct prosecution of serious, complex and organised
commercial crime and corruption matters. Appear in court in motion
applications pertaining to criminal matters and in general conduct prosecution
on behalf of the state. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the
code of conduct policy and directives of the NPA. Promote partner integration,
community involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners
in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Bontle Bareng Tel No: (012) 401 9421
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025472@npa.gov.za
POST 34/41 : STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/473
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R932 904 - R1 539 321.per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Bellville
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA
Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’ post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Persons in private practice must provide a
certificate of good standing with the LPC. Well-developed skills in legal
research and legal drafting. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure.
Proficiency in prosecution, competency in guiding investigations, drafting
charge sheets, indictments and court documents and dealing with
representations. Knowledge of and skills in general prosecution. Good
interpersonal, analytical, organisational and communication skills. Ability to act
independently or with minimum supervision. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
Represent the State in all courts. Prepare a case for court, including the
acquisition of additional evidence, lead and cross examine witnesses, address
the court on inter alia, conviction and sentence. Study and deal with appeals
and reviews, attend to representations, prepare opinions and heads of
arguments. Conduct prosecution of serious, complex and organised
commercial crime and corruption matters. Appear in court in motion
applications pertaining to criminal matters and in general conduct prosecution
on behalf of the state. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the
code of conduct policy and directives of the NPA.
ENQUIRIES : Xola Matembisa Tel No: 021 944 6721
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025473@npa.gov.za
POST 34/42 : STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/474 (OCC) (X2 POSTS)
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R932 904 - R1 539 321 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least five (5) years post qualification legal experience in legal
practice and/or regional court prosecution. Extensive prosecutorial or litigation
experience with regard to common law offences such as serious violent crimes,
syndicate drug dealing, organised robberies with aggravated circumstances,
fraud, theft, commercial crimes and corruption. Prosecutorial or litigation
experience in racketeering and gang related matters will be an added
advantage. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as contemplated in
section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Proficiency in prosecuting and guiding
investigations in complex or more difficult matters. Strong computer skills and
37
knowledge of programs in MS Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint. Written
and verbal communication skills. A valid drivers’ licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets, decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Deal with any representations. Guide investigations in organised
crime complex or more difficult matters, including commercial matters. Prepare
cases for court, including acquisition of additional evidence and draft charge
sheets, indictments, heads of argument, opinions and all other court
documents. Represent the state in all courts, lead and cross examine
witnesses, address the court on inter alia, conviction and sentence. Manage
court and case flow management of cases independently. Study and deal with
appeals and reviews. Manage any portfolio assigned by the Deputy Director
managing the OCC. Mentor and guide DPCI and SAPS investigating officers,
prosecutors and stakeholders. Assist in high profile matters and matters where
an increased risk element is present. Promote partner integration, community
involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the
criminal justice system. Mentor and coach junior staff and quality check their
work. Participate in the performance assessment of staff being mentored.
ENQUIRIES : Nicholas Mogongwa Tel No: (053) 807 4539
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025474@npa.gov.za
POST 34/43 : STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/475 (X2 POSTS)
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R932 904 - R1 539 321 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Pietermaritzburg (STU)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA
Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’ post qualification legal experience. At
least four (4) years relevant criminal court work experience in advocacy and
drafting. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Well-developed skills in legal research. Good
interpersonal, analytical, organizational and communication skills. General
computer literacy required. Excellent administrative skills. Extensive
prosecutorial or litigation experience with regard to common law offences such
as fraud, theft, forgery and uttering, commercial crimes and related matters.
Proficiency in prosecuting, guiding investigations in complex or more difficult
matters, including commercial matters. Drafting charge sheets, indictments
and court documents, dealing with representations and conducting motion
proceedings. The ability to mentor and train prosecutors and stakeholders
Ability to act independently without supervision and manage court and case
flow management independently. Required to travel to courts across the
province to prosecute tax cases as and when required. Valid driver’s licence
DUTIES : To institute and conduct criminal proceedings on behalf of the State, to perform
any act incidental thereto and to carry out the duties and functions assigned to
the prosecution under any Act and/ or any directives, inter alia, study case
dockets, decide on the institution of and conduct criminal proceedings of a
complex nature. Prepare cases for court by inter ilia guiding investigations,
consulting with witnesses and acquiring additional evidence. Draft charge
sheets and indictments. Deal with any representations. Present the State’s
case in court. Present evidence, cross-examine and address the court on, inter
alia, conviction and sentence. Study appeals and review, prepare options and
heads of argument in motion applications pertaining to criminal matters and in
general conduct prosecutions on behalf of the State. Perform all duties
including administrative duties and specific tasks assigned by the supervisor,
related thereto in accordance with the Code of Conduct, Policy and Directives
of the National Prosecuting Authority. Mentor and guide prosecutors and
stakeholders (SARS CI Investigators, SAPS investigators). Assist in the
keeping of proper records, statistics in relation to all criminal prosecutions
conducted by the STU and assist in compilation of statistics/ reports. Assist
Deputy Directors in high profile matters or matters where an increased risk
element is present. Promote partner integration, community involvement and
customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Thabsile Radebe Tel No: (033) 392 8753
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025475@npa.gov.za
38
POST 34/44 : STATE ADVOCATE
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R932 904 - R1 539 321 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Pretoria (OCC) Ref No: Recruit 2025/476 (X4 Posts)
DPP: Mmabatho (OCC) Ref No: Recruit 2025/477 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA
Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’ post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. High level of proficiency in prosecuting and
presenting/arguing cases in court. Experience in guiding criminal
investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory offences.
Interpersonal skills. Knowledge of and or experience in the litigation of the
Prevention of Organised Crime Act (POCA) matters. Written and verbal
communication skills. Ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Study and guide the investigations in case dockets. Decide on the institution of
and conduct criminal proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other
court documents. Represent the State in all courts. Prepare a case for court,
including the acquisition of additional evidence and draft charge sheets and
indictments. Present the State’s case in court, lead and cross examine
witnesses, address the court on, inter alia, conviction and sentence, study
appeal and reviews. Attend to representations, prepare opinions and heads of
arguments and argue cases in the appropriate court. Appear in court in motion
application pertaining to criminal matters and in general conduct prosecution
on behalf of the state. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the
code of conduct policy and directives of the NPA. Promote partner integration,
community involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners
in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : DPP: Pretoria Godfrey Ramakuela Tel No: (012) 351 6808
DPP: Mmabatho Flora Kalakgosi Tel No: (018) 381 9041
APPLICATIONS : DPP: Pretoria e mail: Recruit2025476@npa.gov.za
DPP: Mmabatho e mail: Recruit2025477@npa.gov.za
POST 34/45 : STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/478
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R932 904 - R1 539 321 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA
Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’ post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Well-developed skills in legal research and
legal drafting. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Extensive
prosecutorial or litigation experience with regard to common law offences such
as fraud, theft, forgery and uttering, commercial crimes and related matters.
Knowledge of and skills in general prosecution. Good interpersonal, analytical,
organisational and communication skills. Ability to act independently or with
minimum supervision. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
Represent the State in all courts. Prepare a case for court, including the
acquisition of additional evidence, lead and cross examine witnesses, address
the court on inter alia, conviction and sentence. Study and deal with appeals
and reviews, attend to representations, prepare opinions and heads of
arguments. Conduct prosecution of serious, complex and organised
commercial crime and corruption matters. Appear in court in motion
applications pertaining to criminal matters and in general conduct prosecution
on behalf of the state. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the
code of conduct policy and directives of the NPA.
ENQUIRIES : Takalani Mfuni Tel No: (011) 220 4827
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025478@npa.gov.za
39
POST 34/46 : STATE ADVOCATE RECRUIT 2025/479 (X2 POSTS)
Asset Forfeiture Unit
SALARY : R932 904 - R1 539 321 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least five (5) years post qualification legal experience in civil
and/or criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Professional and
able to work independently. Willing to travel and able to work extended hours.
Excellent communication skills. Well-developed skills in legal drafting and
advocacy. Good knowledge of Asset Forfeiture Law will be an added
advantage. Excellent interpersonal, analytical and presentation skills. Strong
computer skills and knowledge of MS Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint.
Literacy and numeracy. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Civil litigation on behalf of the State regarding all aspects of freezing of property
and obtaining final forfeiture confiscation orders. Liaise with prosecutors on
cases with asset forfeiture potential. Draft and present asset forfeiture
applications in all courts. Train prosecutors and investigators in the use of Asset
Forfeiture Law. Keep up to date with legal developments.
ENQUIRIES : Joyce Marogoa Tel No: (012) 845 6700
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025479@npa.gov.za
POST 34/47 : STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/480 (X5 POSTS)
Investigating Directorate Against Corruption
SALARY : R932 904 - R1 539 321 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head office
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA
Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’ post qualification legal experience. At
least five (5) years relevant criminal court work experience in advocacy and
drafting. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Extensive prosecutorial or litigation
experience with regard to common law offences such as fraud, theft, forgery
and uttering, commercial crimes and related matters. Proficiency in
prosecuting, guiding investigations in complex or more difficult matters,
including commercial matters. Drafting charge sheets, indictments and court
documents, dealing with representations. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets, make assessments thereof and decide on the institution
of prosecution. Deal with any representations. Guide investigations in complex
or more difficult tax matters, including commercial matters. Prepare cases for
court, including the acquisition of additional evidence and draft charge sheets,
indictments and court documents. Present the State’s case in court, lead and
cross examine witnesses, address the court on inter alia, conviction and
sentence. Manage court and case flow management of cases independently.
Study and deal with appeals and reviews. Prepare opinions and heads of
argument for complex matters and argue cases in the appropriate court.
Appear in court in motion application pertaining to criminal matters and general
conduct prosecutions on behalf of the state. Mentor and guide investigating
officers, prosecutors and stakeholders. Assist in high profile matters or matters
where an increased risk element is present. Promote partner integration,
community involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners
in criminal justice system independently without supervision and manage court
and case flow management independently.
ENQUIRIES : Matodzi Makhari Tel No: (012) 845 6012
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025480@npa.gov.za
POST 34/48 : REGIONAL COURT PROSECUTOR
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R630 630 - R1 450 323 per annum (Level LP-5 to LP-6), (excluding benefits),
(total cost package)
CENTRE : CPP: Port Elizabeth (New Brighton) Ref No: Recruit 2025/481
CPP: Welkom (Sasolburg) Ref No: Recruit 2025/482
CPP: Port Elizabeth (Gqeberha) Ref No: Recruit 2025/483 (X2 Posts)
40
CPP: Ntuzuma Ref No: Recruit 2025/484
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least four (4) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. The incumbent must have the ability to act
independently or with minimum supervision. Proficiency in prosecuting.
Experience in guiding investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory
offences in regional court. Good interpersonal skills. Good analytical skills.
Good presentation skills. Good project management skills. Valid driver’s
licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets and other documents and represent the
State in all courts. Lead witnesses, cross-examine and address the court on
inter alia, conviction and sentence and in general to conduct prosecutions on
behalf of the state. Perform general administrative duties of the office. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system. Perform all duties
related thereto in accordance with the Code of Conduct, Policy, and Directives
of the National Prosecuting Authority.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Port Elizabeth (New Brighton) & CPP: Port Elizabeth (Gqeberha)
Andiswa Tengile Tel No: (012) 842 1450
CPP: Welkom (Sasolburg) Lemmer Ludwick Tel No: (051) 410 6001
CPP: Ntuzuma Phiwayinkosi Nhlengethwa Tel No: (031) 334 5003
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Port Elizabeth (New Brighton) e-mail: Recruit2025481@npa.gov.za
CPP: Welkom (Sasolburg) e-mail: Recruit2025482@npa.gov.za
CPP: Port Elizabeth (Gqeberha) e-mail: Recruit2025483@npa.gov.za
CPP: Ntuzuma e-mail: Recruit2025484@npa.gov.za
POST 34/49 : HEAD CONTROL PROSECUTOR 2
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R630 630 - R1 450 323 per annum (Level SU-1 to SU-2), (excluding benefits),
(total cost package)
CENTRE : CPP: Nelspruit (Masoyi) Ref No: Recruit 2025/485
CPP: Nelspruit (Sabie) Ref No: Recruit 2025/486
CPP: Thohoyandou (Senwabarwana) Ref No: Recruit 2025/494
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least four (4) years’ post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Proficiency in prosecuting, guiding
investigation and giving instructions in reasonably complex or more difficult
common law and statutory offences in the lower courts. Proficiently drafting
complex charge sheets and other complex court documents. Must be able to
act independently without constant supervision and manage court and case
flow independently. Good management and administrative skills. General
computer literacy with excellent knowledge of Ms Word, PowerPoint, Excel ad
Outlook. High level of reliability. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Ability to
identify and handle confidential matters. Knowledge of relevant legislations,
policies, prescripts and procedures applicable in the public sector.
DUTIES : Manage, train, and give guidance to prosecutors. Study case dockets, decide
on the institution of and conduct criminal proceedings. Maintenance matters
and inquest of a general and more advanced nature in the Regional Court and
District Court. Prepare cases for court and draft charge sheets and other
proceedings for court, present and assist prosecutors to present the State’s
case in court, to lead witnesses, cross examine and address the court on inter-
alia, conviction, and sentence, and in general to conduct prosecutions on
behalf of the State. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the
Code of Conduct, Policy, and Directives of the National Prosecuting Authority.
Assist the Senior Public Prosecutor with the performance assessment of staff.
Manage, control and attend to the administration of the office of the District
Court. Promote partner integration, community involvement and customer
satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Nelspruit (Masoyi) & CPP: Nelspruit (Sabie) Tebogo Mashile Tel No:
(013) 045 0686
CPP: Thohoyandou (Senwabarwana) - Thuba Thubakgale Tel No: (015) 045
0285
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Nelspruit (Masoyi) e mail: Recruit2025485@npa.gov.za
41
CPP: Nelspruit (Sabie) e mail: Recruit2025486@npa.gov.za
CPP: Thohoyandou (Senwabarwana) e mail Recruit2025494@npa.gov.za
POST 34/50 : DISTRICT COURT CONTROL PROSECUTOR
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R630 630 - R1 450 323 per annum (Level SU-1 to SU-2), (excluding benefits),
(total cost package)
CENTRE : CPP: Welkom Ref No: Recruit 2025/487
CPP: Pretoria Ref No: Recruit 2025/488
CPP: Vaal Rand (Daveyton) Ref No: Recruit 2025/489
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least four (4) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. The incumbent must have the ability to act
independently or with minimum supervision. Proficiency in prosecuting.
Experience in guiding investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory
offences in Regional court. Good interpersonal skills. Good analytical skills.
Good presentation skills. Good project management skills. Valid driver’s
licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets and other documents and represent the
State in all courts. Lead witnesses, cross-examine and address the court on
inter alia, conviction and sentence and in general to conduct prosecutions on
behalf of the state. Perform general administrative duties of the office. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system. Perform all duties
related thereto in accordance with the Code of Conduct, Policy, and Directives
of the National Prosecuting Authority.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Welkom Lemmer Ludwick Tel No: (051) 410 6001
CPP: Pretoria Motshabi Malabi Tel No: (012) 351 6864
CPP: Vaal Rand (Daveyton) Godfrey Ramakuela Tel No: (012) 351 6808
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Welkom e-mail: Recruit2025487@npa.gov.za
CPP: Pretoria e-mail: Recruit2025488@npa.gov.za
CPP: Vaal Rand (Daveyton) e-mail: Recruit2025489@npa.gov.za
POST 34/51 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT REF NO:
RECRUIT 2025/490
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : DPP: Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B -degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level
6). Minimum 3 years’ experience as a Human Resource Generalist. Extensive
knowledge of the recruitment process and procedure; performance
management system. Extensive experience in working on PERSAL.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Knowledge of legislation and regulations
pertaining to public service administration, specifically the Public Service Act
and Regulations, Employment Equity Act and Access to Information act.
Understanding of the Public Service generally and Human Resources. Sound
knowledge of labour and public service legislation. Good communication,
liaison and presentation skills. Working knowledge of PERSAL (PERSAL
certificates to be attached). A good command of computer literacy, including
Microsoft Office Suite (Word, EXCEL, PowerPoint, Outlook). Ability to work
under pressure. Good administration skills. People management and
empowerment. Planning and prioritising skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Problem solving and decision making. Management and
leadership skills. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Provide HR administration services to the region (Recruitment & Selection,
Conditions of Service, Staff Retention, Exit, Training and Development, PMDS,
EWP, Long Service Recognition, Service Excellence Awards, Benefits, TSP
etc). Capture personal information on the payroll system. Monitor the
implementation of recruitment and selection of human resource services.
Monitor implementation of service benefits. Facilitate the administration of
human resource development services in the region. Compile monthly reports
and statistics. Manage staff and provide guidance on HR related matters.
42
Implement and ensure compliance with policies and procedures. Liaise with
customers and stakeholders. Maintain and administer PERSAL information
including leave applications. Prepare Human Resources reports and submit
same to the Director: Administration. PERSAL administration, staff
procurement, training and development, service conditions, staff exits and
transfers. Manage the implementation of the Employment Equity Targets.
Manage all activities relating to performance management. Perform any other
duties deemed necessary by management.
ENQUIRIES : Nicholas Mogongwa Tel No: (053) 807 4539
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025490@npa.gov.za
POST 34/52 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/491
Asset Forfeiture Unit
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Sound planning and
organizing skills, Report writing good verbal and written communication skills.
General computer literacy in MS Word; Excel; PowerPoint and Outlook. Good
analytical skills. Document administration and task time management skills.
Ability to act independently.
DUTIES : Provide high quality administrative support to the office. Keep a well-organized
administrative system for the office. Execute a wide variety of administrative
tasks. Provide administrative support to the staff in human resources, finance,
procurement and logistical services.
ENQUIRIES : Lindie Swanepoel Tel No: (012) 845 6638
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025491@npa.gov.za
POST 34/53 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2025/492
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: Ntuzuma
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Sound planning and
organizing skills, written and verbal communication. General computer literacy
skills and knowledge in programs MS Word; Excel; PowerPoint and Outlook.
Good people skills. Strong interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to
act independently.
DUTIES : Provide high quality administrative support to the office. Design and keep a
well-organized administrative system for the office. Execute a wide variety of
administrative tasks pertaining to the provision of support to line functionaries.
Draft correspondence to other organisations and State departments. Liaise
with corporate services with all matters pertaining to the administrative
functioning of the office. Provide administrative support to the legal staff,
pertaining to finance, logistical and human resources. Deliver mails,
photocopying, faxing, receiving and dispatching documents. Provide efficient
administrative services in the Cluster. Liaise with customers and stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Phiwayinkosi Nhlengethwa Tel No: (031) 334 5003
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2025492@npa.gov.za
43
ANNEXURE G
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office (Midrand): Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Director: Human Resources, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand deliver applications to the Office
of the Chief Justice, Human Resource Management, 188, 14th Road,
Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685.
Eastern Cape/ Mthatha/Gqeberha: Quoting the relevant reference number,
direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice,
Postal Address: Private Bag X13012, Cambridge, 5206, East London.
Applications can also be hand delivered to 59 Western Avenue, Sanlam Park
Building, 2nd Floor, Vincent 5242, East London.
KwaZulu-Natal/Pietermaritzburg/Durban: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief
Justice, Private Bag X54314, Durban, 4001. Applications can also be hand
delivered to 1st Floor Office No 118, CNR Somtseu8 & Stalwart Simelane
Streets, Durban, 4000.
Mpumalanga/ Mbombela: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head: Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag
X20051, Mbombela, 1211. Applications can also be hand delivered to,
Mpumalanga Division of the High Court, Office of the Chief Justice Provincial
Service Centre, 311 Samora Machel Drive, Mbombela, 1200.
Western Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Postal Address: Private
Bag X9020, Cape Town, 8000, or hand deliver applications to the Office of the
Chief Justice, Provincial Service Centre 30 Queen Victoria Street, cape Town
CLOSING DATE : 07 October 2025
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. Each application form must
be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both pages by the applicant.
The application must indicate the correct job title, the office where the position
is advertised and the reference number as stated in the advert. Failure by the
applicant to fully complete, sign and initial the application form will lead to
disqualification of the application during the selection process. Applications on
the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you be in a possession
of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate
from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Dual citizenship holders
must provide the Police Clearance certificate from the country of origin (when
shortlisted all non - SA Citizens will be required to submit a copy of proof of
South African permanent residence). Applications that do not comply with the
above-mentioned requirements will not be considered. Suitable candidates will
be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, financial checks,
qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference checks and employment
verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
44
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will
be expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo
a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The Office the Chief
Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided
to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose
of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application
was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal
information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your application
null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the security and
confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment process
OTHER POSTS
POST 34/54 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2025/241/OCJ
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Division of The High Court: Makhanda
REQUIREMENTS : Grade twelve (12). One (1) to three (3) years’ secretarial experience or as an
Office Assistant. A valid driver’s license. A minimum of 20 modules completed
towards an LLB, BA or BCom Law Degree will serve as an added advantage,
and results must accompany the application. Shortlisted candidates will be
required to pass a typing test. Skills and competencies: Proficiency in English.
Good communication skills (verbal and written). Administration and
organizational skills. Exceptional interpersonal skills. Ability to meet strict
deadlines and to work under pressure. Attention to detail. Customer care
service skills and excellent typing skills. Confidentiality and time management.
Computer literacy (MS Word) and research capabilities. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's
technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : To ensure attendance and screening of all incoming and outgoing calls. To
ensure that appointments and meetings of the Judge are diarized. To ensure
that the judgments are typed and correspondences are filed accordingly in the
right sections. To ensure that signed Judgments and orders handed down in
court or virtually are sent to the typist and the library (Judgment only). To ensure
that all visitors are received, screened and their queries are attended to. To
ensure that all incoming and outgoing documents are recorded and filed. To
ensure that stationery for the Judge is ordered and collected. To ensure that
the court files are ready and Judge has all documents in the file on time as per
duty roster. To ensure that all files received from various section(s) are verified
by the Registrar of that section. To ensure that the register of reviews is up to
date and signed on receipt and return of reviews to the review Clerk. To ensure
that he register/template of the reserved judgment is updated and notifying the
Statistics officer as well as the office of the Judge President when judgment
has been handed down. To ensure that the transcribed judgments from
transcribers reach the Judges for approval and signature. To ensure that the
Heads of Arguments from various stakeholders are received filed and verified.
informing parties involved via e-mail and telephonically of time and date when
reserved judgments will be handed down, further notifying them on how the
judgement will be handed down. To ensure that the bench book of the Judge
is prepared and files are in court before the court starts or before Judge enters
the court. To ensure that all cases are called and recorded as per court roll.
Calling the case number and the parties’ names on record before Judge can
allow parties to start with their matters. To ensure that the correct Oath ID or
declaration is administered in court, when required. To ensure that the exhibits
are handled, controlled and noted professionally and captured accordingly. To
ensure that the correct order is endorsed on the file and on Caselines after it
was granted by Judge in court. To ensure that all the travel, accommodation
arrangements are in order on time, attend to sign the documents being signed
prior approval. To ensure that the Judge’s logbook is submitted on or before
5th of every month to the Transport Officer. To ensure that the car is booked
45
for either maintenance and service, receive the preauthorization for the Judge’s
vehicle. To remind the Judge of the invoices so that the submission of the S&T
claims can be processed. To ensure the submissions of Cell phone and 3G
data claims for process purposes. To ensure that court roll(s) is submitted to
the Statistician.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms L Frazer Tel No: (046) 622 5657
HR Related Enquiries: Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/241/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals
POST 34/55 : REGISTRAR REF NO: 2025/244/OCJ
SALARY : R324 579 – R1 111 323 per annum (MR3-MR5). Salary will be in accordance
with the Occupation Specific Dispensation (Resolution 1 of 2008). Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit a Service Certificate/s for determination
of their experience. The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg High Court
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate and an LLB Degree or a four (4) year legal qualification.
Driver’s license. MR3: LLB Degree or equivalent plus a minimum of 2 years
post qualification experience in legal profession. MR4: LLB Degree or
equivalent plus a minimum of 8 years post qualification experience in legal
profession. MR5: LLB Degree or equivalent plus a minimum of 14 years post
qualification experience in legal profession). Skills and Competencies:
Excellent communication skills (verbal and written), Computer literacy,
Numerical skills, Attention to detail, Planning, organizing and decision-making
skills, Customer service orientated, Interpersonal skills, Conflict management,
strong work ethics, professionalism, ability to work under pressure and meeting
of deadlines, result driven, honesty/trustworthy and Observance of
confidentiality. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Co-ordination of Case Flow Management support process to the Judiciary.
Manage the issuing of all processes. Initiating Court proceedings. Co-ordinate
interpreting services, appeals and reviews. Authenticate signatures of Legal
Practitioners, Notaries and Sworn Translators. Supervision and management
of staff. Ensure annotation of relevant publications, codes, acts and rules.
Attend to and execute requests from the Judiciary in connection with cases and
case-related matters. Exercise control over the management and safekeeping
of case records and the record room. Deal with the files in terms of the relevant
codes and legislation. Execute Quasi-judicial indicators such as Taxation of the
Bill of Costs and Warrants of Execution. Collate statistical data for reporting
purposes and prepare court performance reports.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Enquiries: Mr MN Zondi Tel No: (033) 345 8211
HR Enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493 1723
APPLICATIONS : can be sent via email at 2025/244/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 34/56 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: CRT REF NO: 2025/245/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 – R368 950 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Mpumalanga Division of The High Court: Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate or equivalent. A National Diploma (NQF 6) in Legal field or
related qualification as recognized by SAQA will be an added advantage. A
valid driver’s license. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry
practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate’s suitability based on the post technical and generic requirements.
Skills and Competencies: Job knowledge. Good communication skills (verbal
and written). Interpersonal relations skills. Flexibility. Teamwork. Planning and
organisation skills. Computer literacy (MS Office). General Administration /
Court related functions regarding court recordings. Good customer services All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements.
46
DUTIES : Provide administrative support in pre-recording of court proceedings. Render
proper recording of court proceedings. Perform collection of statistic. Provide
administrative support as required by the Court Manager and/or Registrar
and/or Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms. JM Shongwe Tel No: (013) 758 0000 HR
Related Enquiries: Mr. SJ Zwane/Mr. V Maeko Tel No: (013) 758 0000
APPLICATIONS : can be sent via email at 2025/245/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals
POST 34/57 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: (DCRS) REF NO: 2025/246/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg High Court
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate; no experience is required. A three-year relevant
qualification (National Diploma at NQF level 6) with 360 credits as recognized
by SAQA will be an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine
the candidate’s suitability based on the post technical and generic
requirements. Skills and Competencies: Job knowledge. Good communication
skills (verbal and written). Interpersonal relations skills. Flexibility. Teamwork.
Planning and organisation skills. Computer literacy (MS Office). General
Administration / Court related functions regarding court recordings. Good
customer services.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support in pre-recording of court proceedings. Render
proper recording of court proceedings. Perform collection of statistic. Provide
administrative support as required by the Court Manager and/or Registrar
and/or Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Enquiries: Mr MN Zondi Tel No: (033) 345 8211
HR Enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493 1723
APPLICATIONS : Can be sent via email at 2025/246/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals
POST 34/58 : ACCOUNTING CLERK REF NO: 2025/247/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Western Cape Division of the High Court: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate with accounting and mathematics. No experience
required. National Diploma (NQF6) in Finance / Accounting as recognized by
SAQA will be an added advantage. Skills and Competencies: Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, Generally Recognized
Accounting Principles (GRAP) Departmental policies and procedures.
Financial prescripts and Manuals Batho Pele Principles. Planning and
Organizing, Attention to detail, computer literacy, Verbal and written
communication Interpersonal relations, Analytical and Problem-solving,
Accounting Basic Numeracy and Accuracy.
DUTIES : Process the payment of creditors, administer the collection of revenue, conduct
payroll administration and pay claims, administer petty cash, Prepare and
process payment of S&T claims for Judges and Officials, prepare manual,
requisitions and capture on Logis. Receive and record all invoices within 30
days. Receive and check invoices for correctness, verification and approval.
Capture all payments on the financial system after verifying supporting
documents for validity, accuracy and completeness, Compile and capture all
financial transactions on financial transversal system (e.g. BAS and LOGIS).
Updating and maintaining of the invoice tracking register, maintain records and
assist in the filing of documents, Entity maintenance. Perform adhoc activities
as and when required, e.g. retrieval of documents for audit purposes.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms. N Chwethiso Tel No: (021) 480 2637
HR Related Enquiries: Mr S Hlongwane Tel No: (021) 469 4038
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/247/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals
47
POST 34/59 : TYPIST (X3 POSTS)
(6 Months Contract)
SALARY : R193 359 - R227 766 per annum (Level 04), plus 37 % in lieu of benefits. The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Mkhanda High Court Ref No: 2025/248/OCJ (X2 Posts)
Gqeberha High Court Ref No: 2025/249/OCJ (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade twelve (12) or NQF Level 4 qualification, A minimum typing speed of 35
wpm. Shortlisted candidates will be required to pass a typing test. Skills and
competencies. Computer literacy (MS Word). Good communication skills
(written and verbal). Good interpersonal relations, planning and organization
skills. Good problem-solving skills. Accuracy and attention to details. Ability to
work under pressure. Good time keeping. Telephone etiquette. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's
technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Typing of appeals, reviews, reports, minutes, circulars, notice of set downs,
witness statements, taxing master reports, affidavits, memorandums and court
orders. Relief administrative personnel where necessary. Filling, opening files
and making appointments. Dealing with public queries and other administrative
duties.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms L Frazer Tel No: (046) 622 5657
HR Related Enquiries: Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : Makhanda: Applications can be sent via email at
2025/248/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Gqheberha: Applications can be sent via email at
2025/249/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organization will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals
48
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF TRADE INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION
APPLICATIONS` : Applications can be submitted: Via e-mail to applications@thedtic.gov.za (Ref
no. must appear in subject-line – if no reference no. is provided the application
may not be considered), by post to The Director: Human Resources
Management, Private Bag X84, Pretoria, 0001; Hand-delivered to the dtic
Campus, corner of Meintjies and Robert Sobukwe Streets, Sunnyside,
Pretoria.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
NOTE : The application must include a completed and signed new Z83 Form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department, the dtic website or on the
internet at www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Applications received
that do not comply with this requirement will not be considered. Certified copies
of qualifications and Identity Document or any other relevant documents are to
be submitted by only shortlisted candidates to HR on or before the day of the
interview date. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise.
Background verification, social media checks and security vetting will form part
of the selection process and successful candidates will be subjected to security
vetting. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applications
received after the closing date will not be considered. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within 3
months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. the dtic reserves the right not to fill any
advertised position(s). the dtic is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer, and candidates whose appointment will promote representivity, will
be given preference.
OTHER POSTS
POST 34/60 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SKILLS FOR THE ECONOMY REF NO: SID&ET 057
Overview: The successful candidate will be responsible for the development
and management of the design and implementation of skills development
policies, strategies and programmes that are aligned with the dtic’s sector
priorities and mandate.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 7, as recognized by SAQA, Development Studies,
Business Management, Economics, Education Policy, or a related field. 3–5
years managerial experience in the skills development sector, including
implementation and evaluation of education/skills programmes and strategies
in the public or private sector. Key Requirements: Experience at managerial
level in relevant skills development environments. Advanced proficiency in MS
Office and project management systems. Demonstrated knowledge of the
Skills Development Act, PFMA, National Treasury Regulations, and Public
Service Regulations. Experience in the design, implementation and monitoring
of skills training programmes, particularly related to industrial sector
requirements. Strong leadership, strategic thinking, planning, problem-solving,
and stakeholder engagement skills. Excellent communication, report writing
and presentation abilities. Willingness to travel and work overtime when
required. The successful candidate will need to obtain a Secret-level security
clearance due to the strategic and advisory nature of the role.
DUTIES : Policy Analysis & Programme Development: Analyse policies, regulation and
legislation to develop appropriate policies, strategies and programmes to
address specific sector priorities. Conceptualise and communicate internal and
external processes to assess specific Sector Skills Plans of specific SETAs and
integrate the sector needs of the dtic stakeholders. Benchmarking sector-
based policies and programmes against local and international best practice.
Stakeholder Management: Represent the unit in relevant forums, task teams
on skills development. Identify, set up and manage internal & external
stakeholder forums for conceptualization, design & implementation of policies
& programmes in specific sector skills areas, Masterplans, SEZs and SETAs.
Project Management: Develop, implement and manage programmes in
support of youth employment and labour market development. Manage the
49
development and approval of Workplace Challenge annual business plan,
annual targets & annual report. Manage the development and approval of the
sectoral Centre of Excellence in the textile & clothing sector annual business
plan, strategic planning processes, annual targets and annual report. Manage
the conceptualization and design of sector-based programmes/projects in line
with sector policies and strategies with internal sector desks, industry
stakeholders, SETAs and benchmarked against local and international best
practice. Monitoring and Evaluation: Identify and implement monitoring &
evaluation requirements. Monitor the implementation of business plan and
development of feedback reports on a monthly and quarterly basis
(Performance & financial expenditure). Monitor implementation of expert
committee and develop inputs on MTEF, audit & the dtic performance
processes & reporting. Sub-directorate Management: Manage collation of
inputs into the quarterly and annual reports, business plans and targets.
Compile reports on skills development programmes and M&E visits. Monitor
financial resources and assets of the unit. Manage the human resources of the
sub-directorate. Manage the process of reporting on financial and operational
risks.
ENQUIRIES : L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103/ L Mabokela Tel No: (012) 394 1809 / D
Mathavha Tel No: (012) 394 3864 / K Xaluva Tel No: (012) 394 1563
POST 34/61 : OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH NURSE REF NO: CMSB - 099
Overview: To deliver comprehensive occupational and primary healthcare
services aimed at enhancing employee health, well-being, and productivity
within the Department, aligned with international best practices and regulatory
compliance.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 6, as recognised by SAQA in Nursing/Occupational
Health with a Dispensing License. Registered with the South African Nursing
Council (SANC) as a professional nurse. 3 – 5 years’ relevant experience in an
Occupational Health and Safety environment. Key Requirements: Relevant
experience in an Occupational Health Clinic. Knowledge of the Occupational
Health and Safety Act (OHSA), 1993 and relevant regulations. Knowledge of
Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act (COIDA), Mine
Health and Safety Act, and Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Ability to
assist employers in complying with legal workplace health obligations. Strong
ethical and professional standards. Ability to work independently and within a
multidisciplinary team. Excellent communication and interpersonal skills.
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) will
be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Develop Occupational Health Clinic Management: Establish, implement, and
manage the Occupational Health Clinic aligned with relevant legislation and
international standards. Design and maintain the clinic infrastructure, ensuring
compliance with occupational health and safety regulations. Perform annual
audits to maintain accreditation and operational effectiveness. Develop
protocols for confidential record management and patient care. Coordinate the
temporary recruitment of additional healthcare professionals to supplement the
clinic service. Primary Health Care Programme Management: Provide medical
diagnosis, treatment, follow-up and referral for primary health conditions.
Develop and manage specialised services including Family Planning and
Chronic Disease Management. Maintain accurate medical records and monitor
health trends to inform strategic health interventions. Occupational Health Care
Programme Management: Diagnose, treat, and manage workplace-related
injuries and illnesses. Coordinate timely referrals to medical specialists.
Respond effectively to medical emergencies in the workplace. Maintain
accurate and timely records of occupational injuries and illnesses for statutory
compliance. Health Promotion and Prevention: Develop and implement health
education initiatives, including newsletters, presentations, and workshops on
health and wellness topics. Promote awareness and participation in national
and international health campaigns. Establish and maintain collaborative
relationships with external health service providers and stakeholders.
Reporting and Administration: Maintain detailed patient files and manage clinic
records. Compile monthly, quarterly, and annual reports on clinic activities,
utilisation, and health trends. Ensure accurate inventory management and
50
procure necessary medical supplies and equipment. Oversee stocktaking
activities and manage the procurement of clinic medicine and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103/ L
Mabokela Tel No: (012) 394 1809
POST 34/62 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REF NO: ODG-233
Overview: To provide support to the Office of the Chief Financial Officer in the
execution of their functions in terms of the Public Finance Management Act,
1999 and the Treasury Regulations regarding financial reporting.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 in Financial Management or a Finance-related
field in accounting as recognised by SAQA. 3–5 years’ experience in Financial
Management, of which 2 years must be in the compilation of financial
statements. Key Requirements: Thorough understanding of the PFMA,
Treasury Regulations, MCS and AMD. Experience in the preparation and
review of monthly, quarterly, and annual financial statements. Ability to
coordinate internal and external audit activities and respond to audit queries.
Experience in reviewing general ledger accounts, suspense and clearing
accounts, and financial statement working papers. Ability to interpret the trial
balance and identify misallocations and control weaknesses. Strong planning
and organisational skills, and attention to detail. Excellent report writing,
communication and analytical skills. Proficiency in Microsoft Office packages,
especially Excel, Word, and PowerPoint. Experience engaging with
stakeholders including National Treasury and Auditor-General.
DUTIES : Financial Reporting: Generate project plans for monthly, quarterly, and annual
financial statements in line with MCS and AMD. Interpret amendments to
MCS/AMD and ensure compliance in financial reporting. Verify the compiled
financial statements against inputs received from various stakeholders for
accuracy, completeness and compliance. Coordinate the planning,
preparation, verification and submission of financial statements and trial
balance to relevant authorities. Review draft reports, prepare commentaries on
financial statements to management to assist with informed decisions and
implementation thereof, and verify compliant working papers. Facilitate and
review of the Annual Report. Submission of interim and annual financial
statements to National Treasury and or Auditor General. Internal and External
Audit Procedures: Assist with internal and external auditors during audits and
address audit queries. Provide verified supporting documentation and
implement resolutions from audit findings and audit requests, for both internal
and external auditors. Arrange ad-hoc meetings where applicable. Review of
Financial Statements (Internal Control): Review general ledger accounts,
working papers, and supporting schedules. Identify control deficiencies
through review processes, prepare memos, and follow up on corrective
actions. Perform lease and revenue reviews and ensure the completeness of
reporting registers business plans and reports. Contribute to risk reporting and
mitigation planning Assist in managing the human resources of the sub-sub-
directorate. Review monthly, quarterly and annual financial statements for
compliance and accuracy against verified working papers. Financial Statement
Forums and Meetings: Participate in and implement resolutions from forums
and meetings convened by National Treasury. Resolve issues related to
financial reporting through consultation and collaboration. Stakeholder
Management: Communicate financial reporting requirements and policy
updates to stakeholders. Engage with external bodies such as National
Treasury and Auditor-General as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva, Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103/ L
Mabokela Tel No: (012) 394 1809
51
ANNEXURE I
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/ Other related documentation such as copies
of qualifications, identity document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany
the application when applying for a post as such documentation must only be
produced by shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA
circular 19 of 2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or
occupational registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be
completed as these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or
disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No
late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
pertaining to Senior Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical and competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained
from the National School of government is required prior to the appointment.
Candidates will be required to complete a financial disclosure form and
undergo security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must
provide a police clearance certificate from country of origin (only when
shortlisted). The Department of Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity
employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of
the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment
Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of the Department will be
taken into consideration. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within three (3) months of this
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful.
Faxed applications will not be considered. The department reserves the right
not to fill these positions. Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged
to apply and preference will be given to the EE Targets.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 34/63 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
061025/01
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Head Office
Cd: Infrastructure Development
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Engineering Degree (B Eng /BSc Eng) at NQF 7 in Civil
Engineering or relevant. Five (5) years’ experience in Infrastructure
development at senior management level. Knowledge of National Water Act,
1998 (Act No 36 of 1998) and related policies. Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act. Knowledge of Treasury Rules and Regulations for
procurement. Knowledge of civil engineering and built the environment.
Problem solving and analysis. Strategic Capability and Leadership.
Programme and Project Management. Financial and Budget Management.
Change Management. Knowledge Management. Service Delivery Innovation
(SDI), People Management and Empowerment. Communication. Client
Orientation and Customer Focus. Accountability and Ethical Conduct.
DUTIES : Ensure the management of infrastructure development projects. Oversee
implementation planning of infrastructure projects. Advise on implementing
agents. Manage stakeholder expectations. Oversee project risk management.
Conceptualising of new planned projects. liaise with Chief Directorate of
National Water Resource Planning (Department of Water and Sanitation) on
the development of national water resource infrastructure. Joint identification
of projects that need to be advanced. Develop conceptual return on investment
projections. Identification of funding resources. Drafting of white papers /
52
project proposals. Ensure implementation of capital improvement works.
Oversee Internal new works, Capital improvement works and External works.
Provide strategic leadership and business planning for the chief directorate.
Operational planning and reporting. Financial planning and reporting. Supply
chain planning and reporting. Human resource planning and reporting. Human
resource development and performance management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Livhuwani Mabuda Tel No: (012) 336 8477
POST 34/64 : DIRECTOR: TECHNICAL SUPPORT ENGINEERING SERVICES REF NO:
061025/02
Branch: Infrastructure Management
Cd: Engineering Services
Dir: Technical Engineering Support Service
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 7 qualification in built environment. Five (5) years’
experience at a middle/senior management level in technical engineering
service. Five (5) years Programme and Project management experience.
Understanding of stakeholder, programme and project management. Working
knowledge of governance practices and PFMA. Decision making, strategic
capability and leadership. Understanding of financial, change and knowledge
management. Understanding of e-collaboration and networking with sound
written and verbal communication skills. Service delivery and innovation (SDI).
Problem solving and analysis. People management and empowerment. Client
orientation and customer focus. Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Lead the provision of drawing services. Oversee the development of
engineering technical drawings in line with specifications. Oversee consultation
and archiving of engineering drawings and compiling of as built engineering
drawings. Lead the coordination of quality management systems (ISO 9001).
Oversee development of quality management systems for infrastructure
Branch, auditing of quality management systems. Oversee quality
management systems training process in the Branch. Lead the coordination of
technical training. Oversee management of technical training centre, facilitation
of technical training programs and reporting on technical training. Engineering
projects supporting contract management. Ensure provision of quantity
surveying services to infrastructure projects. Provide strategic leadership and
business planning for the unit. Operational planning and reporting. Financial
planning and reporting. Supply chain planning and reporting. Human resource
planning and reporting. Human resource development and performance
management.
ENQUIRIES : A Chaminuka Tel No: (012) 336 8511
OTHER POSTS
POST 34/65 : SURVEY TECHNICIAN PRODUCTION GRADE A - C (MAINTENANCE) REF
NO: 061025/03
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
(Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied must re-apply)
SALARY : R391 671 - R586 665 per annum, (OSD), (Offer will be based on proven years
of experience)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Survey or Cartography or relevant qualification. Three
(3) years post-qualification survey experience in technical survey
Topographical, Hydrographical, Cadastral, Engineering Surveys for design and
construction, Precise Deformation, Aerial and Survey ground control and
Control surveys. Compulsory registration with the South African Geomatics
Council (SAGC) as a Survey Technician/Surveyor. A valid unexpired driver’s
license. Knowledge of GPS, echo sounders (Hydrographic system), total
stations, and levels. Computer literacy with proven computer skills in respect
of operating systems; CAD and Survey calculation packages in particular
Model Maker, Surpac, and MS Office, Hypack and Trimble Business Centre.
Experience in boat handling and outboard motors will serve as an added
advantage. (Drivers Licence Code EB or Higher will serve as an added
advantage).
53
DUTIES : Perform Topographical, Hydrographical, Deformation, other surveys, and ad
hoc tasks. Able to take control of survey teams in the field. Make use of
computer equipment to produce final maps and reports. Perform duties away
from the office and must be able to travel excessive distances. Able to work
under pressure to provide survey reports and final drawings within the
prescribed time frame. Good communication skills to communicate with the
public, colleagues, and clients.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. LI Radebe Tel No: (051) 405 9000
NOTE : Candidates may be subjected to a skills and knowledge tests.
POST 34/66 : DRIVER REF NO: 061025/04
Branch: Water & Sanitation Services Management North-West
Sd: Corporate Support Services
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 10. One (1) to three (3) years’ experience in driver/ messenger
services. A valid unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge of driving services.
Knowledge of operating the equipment. Basic knowledge of policies and
procedures. Basic literacy (read and write). Knowledge of procedures and
processes. Basic knowledge of government regulations, practice notes,
circulars and policy frameworks. Basic knowledge of financial management
and PFMA. Interpersonal relations. Client orientation and Customer focus.
Accountability and ethical conduct. Good communication skills. Knowledge of
analytical procedures.
DUTIES : The operation of light motor vehicles. General maintenance of light motor
vehicles. The maintenance of vehicle logbooks. Storage of light motor vehicles.
The incumbent will be responsible for a wide variety of tasks which include but
are not limited to the following: Collection and drop-off documents, collecting
papers from government printing. Collect and drop off officials, to and from
varies destinations. Inspections and cleaning of the pool cars.
ENQUIRIES : Mr ES Mazinyo Tel No: (018) 387 9525
POST 34/67 : GENERAL WORKER REF NO: 061025/05
Branch: Water & Sanitation Services Management North-West
Sd: Corporate Support Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET certificate. Knowledge of handling equipment and appliances.
Knowledge of various general work. Basic knowledge of chemical use/ product
and tools usage. Basic knowledge of daily maintenance procedure for efficient
machine/ equipment performance. Basic knowledge of health and safety
procedures. Basic understanding of government legislation.
DUTIES : Load and offload furniture, equipment and any other goods to relevant
destination. Clean government/pool vehicles. Clean relevant workstation. Pack
up the storerooms and assist with moving furniture and materials to various
offices. Ensure the safekeeping of stores items issued for assignments.
Perform standard maintenance and repair task. Finalise tasks as per work
sheet. Implement appropriate repair solutions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr ES Mazinyo Tel No: (018) 387 9525
54
ANNEXURE J
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SETTLEMENTS (GDHS)
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted strictly online at https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za
and it should be accompanied by a new Z83 and a comprehensive Curriculum
Vitae (CV) only.
CLOSING DATE : 10 October 2025
NOTE : Requirement of applications: No late applications will be considered. No faxed
or emailed applications will be accepted. The Gauteng Department of Human
Settlements promotes equal opportunity and aims to implement affirmative
action measures to address the disadvantages in employment. Preference
may be given to appointable applicants from the underrepresented designated
groups in terms of the department’s equity plan. Candidates whose
appointment will promote representativity in terms of race, disability, youth &
gender will receive preference. Whites, Indians, Coloureds and Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). Certified copies of qualifications, Identity and valid driver’s license
(where driving/travelling is an inherent requirement of the job) will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. Correspondence will only be limited to shortlisted
candidates. If you have not been contacted within 3 months of the closing date
of this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
For all SMS positions, the successful completion of the Public Service Senior
Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government and possession of the SMS Pre-Entry Certificate is required prior
to appointment. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-pre-entry-programme/.
Following the interview and exercise, the selection panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic management competency assessment (in
compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-
based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing generic
management and development for SMS posts. The Department reserves the
right not to make appointment(s) to the advertised post(s).
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 34/68 : CHIEF DIRECTOR - INFORMAL SETTLEMENT UPGRADING AND RAPID
LAND RELEASE REF NO: REFS/023323
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum, (all – inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Matric plus an appropriate Bachelor’s degree (NQF level 7) in Town and
Regional Planning and/ or Built Environment. Possession of NQF level 8
qualification will be an added advantage. Registration with technical councils
of SA. A minimum of 5 years’ experience within Senior Management Level in
Infrastructure Project Management. Possession of a Pre-Entry Certificate for
SMS. Possession of a valid driver’s license. The candidate should have
knowledge of all the Public Service prescripts applicable to the role as well as
the Department’s mandate. Knowledge of performance management
frameworks applicable in the Public Service and proven strategies in
performance improvement. Competencies: Strategic capability and
Leadership, People Management and empowerment, Programme and Project
Management, Financial Management and Change Management. Problem
solving and analysis, Client orientation and customer focus, Service Delivery
Innovation, Honesty and Integrity. Personal Attributes: Good written and verbal
communication. Self-motivated. Work well under pressure. Good Interpersonal
skills. Supportive and knowing how to draw the best energy out of the team.
Reliable and Responsible. Positive attitude.
DUTIES : Provide strategic direction on the development and monitor compliance of the
Upgrading Informal Settlements policies, processes, and procedures. Provide
strategic guidance in administration of Provincial Rapid Land Release and
Informal Settlement Upgrading strategy/ programmes. Manage the
establishment and maintain stakeholder Relations. Manage and monitor the
implementation of the Rapid Land Release Programme. Management of the
business unit.
55
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Alinah Mogaswa at 072 313 8052
APPLICATIONS : Please apply online at https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za/
POST 34/69 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: SUSTAINABLE PLANNING REF NO: REFS/023326
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum, (all – inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognized by
SAQA in Town and Regional Planning. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at
Senior management level within Infrastructure Delivery Planning and Regional
Planning environment. Registration with SACPLAN will be an added
advantage. Possession of a Pre-Entry Certificate for SMS. Possession of a
valid driver’s license. The candidate should have knowledge of all the Public
Service prescripts applicable to the role as well as the Department’s mandate.
Knowledge of performance management frameworks applicable in the Public
Service and proven strategies in performance improvement. competencies:
Strategic capability and Leadership, People Management and empowerment,
Programme and Project Management, Financial Management and Change
Management. Problem solving and analysis, Client orientation and customer
focus, Service Delivery Innovation, Honesty and Integrity. personal attributes:
Good written and verbal communication. Self-motivated. Work well under
pressure. Good Interpersonal skills. Supportive and knowing how to draw the
best energy out of the team. Reliable and Responsible. Positive attitude.
DUTIES : Provide strategic on the identification, initiation and conducting of research that
informs the planning and implementation of Human Settlements programmes
in the province. Oversee the management of planning and design processes
of sustainable human settlements. Ensure the provision of Geographical
Information System (GIS) support to all projects and programmes in the
departments. Provide strategic guidance in managing and optimising the
department community empowerment, public participation, service delivery
and community outreach programmes Management of the business unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Alinah Mogaswa at 072 313 8052
APPLICATIONS : Please apply online at https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za
POST 34/70 : DIRECTOR: BENEFICIARY RELATIONS MANAGEMENT REF NO:
REFS/023324
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognized by
SAQA in Public Administration/Public Management. A minimum of 5 years’
relevant experience in Beneficiary Management at Middle/Senior Management
level. Possession of a Pre-Entry Certificate for SMS. Possession of a valid
driver’s license. The candidate should have knowledge of In–depth knowledge
of the National Housing Code and Housing Policy; Knowledge HSS Portal;
Knowledge of Programme and Project management. Competencies & Skills:
Budgeting Skills; Financial Management. Strategic Capacity and Leadership.
Programme and Project Management. Change Management. Personal
Attributes: Good written and verbal communication skills. Self-motivated. Work
well under pressure. Good Interpersonal skills. Reliable and Responsible.
Positive attitude.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate the implementation of the National Housing Needs
Register (NHNR) by ensuring effective and efficient customer registration of all
housing needs applicants. Provide guidance and advice to municipalities and
project managers on the beneficiary list as derived from Housing Policy and
Housing Subsidy System (HSS). Manage and monitor the implementation of
Beneficiary and Subsidy administration. Manage and oversee the allocation of
completed and quality assured houses. Ensures that the allocation policy of
houses is adhered to. Management of business-unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Alinah Mogaswa at 072 313 8052
APPLICATIONS : Please apply online at https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za
POST 34/71 : DIRECTOR: TECHNICAL SUPPORT REF NO: REFS/023325
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
56
REQUIREMENTS : A Matric certificate plus a bachelor’s degree in civil engineering / architecture
/Quantity Surveyor / at NQF Level 7 as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 5
years at Middle/Senior Management experience in infrastructure technical
support services in the built environment and or housing delivery in
architecture/civil engineering/quantity surveying/. Possession of a Pre-Entry
Certificate for SMS. Possession of a valid driver’s license. The candidate
should have in-depth knowledge of National Building Standards Act of 1977
and Regulations; PFMA/DoRA/Treasury Regulations, Practice Notes,
Instructions, Circulars; Construction Industry Development Board Act of 2000
and Regulations; Project and Construction Management Act of 2000. Quantity
Surveyors Profession Act of 2000. Registration with one of the professional
bodies above. Competencies & Skills: Technical design & analysis of built
environment drawings. Competency in Green Building Standards and
innovation in the built environment will be an added advantage. Financial
Management. Strategic and Leadership management. Change Management.
Conflict Management. Good written and verbal communication skills. Self-
motivated. Work well under pressure. Good Interpersonal skills. Reliable and
Responsible. Positive attitude ability to communicate at all levels of
management and manage multiple teams.
DUTIES : Manage the development and review of the Department norms and standards
and ensure adherence to the NHBRC Home Building manual. Develop, review
and monitor the implementation of built environment innovations and best
practices. Manage and improve efficiency of the project quality assurance
inspectorate work engineering and architectural, technical support services in
adherence to standard operating. Oversee the management of the process of
final inspections on houses built to ensure compliance to building regulations,
norms and standards and including standard operating procedures before
payment to of contractors. Managing the process of quality inspections against
designs, norms and standards building regulations. Manage the provision of
the technical support services to the Department. Manage the development
and implementation of alternative energy and monitor the implementation of
Energy Efficiency initiatives and identify suitable Renewable Energy initiatives
for subsidized housing in the province. Management of the business units.
Maintenance of discipline. Management of performance and development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Alinah Mogaswa at 072 313 8052
APPLICATIONS : Please apply online at https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za
POST 34/72 : DIRECTOR - DEVELOPMENT PLANNING REF NO: REFS/023327
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in Town and Regional
Planning and/ or Built Environment. The incumbent should have at least a
minimum of 5 years relevant experience in Infrastructure Project Management
at Middle/Senior management level. Registration with SACPLAN will be added
as an advantage. Possession of a Pre-Entry Certificate for SMS. Possession
of a valid driver’s license. Skills & Competencies: The incumbent should
possess knowledge of Construction Industry Development Board Act of 2000
and Regulations. Council for Built Environment Act of 2000.
PFMA/DoRA/Treasury Regulations, Practice Notes, Instructions, Circulars.
Provincial/Departmental Supply Chain Management Policies.
Provincial/Departmental Supply Chain Management Policies. National Building
Standards Act of 1977 and Regulations. Gauteng IDMS Framework. Quantity
Surveyors Profession Act of 2000. Property Valuers Profession Act of 2000.
Public Service Act of 1994 and Regulations of 2001. Good communications
skills. Client Orientation and customer focus. People management &
empowerment. Financial Management. Service Delivery Innovation. Change
Management.
DUTIES : Lead and manage the application town and regional planning principles in land
development. Manage the provision of Geographical Information System (GIS)
and conduct environmental impact assessment. Manage and facilitate rapid
land release programme. Administer and coordinate wide provincial informal
settlements upgrade strategy. Management of the business unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Alinah Mogaswa at 072 313 8052
APPLICATIONS : Please apply online at https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za
57
ANNEXURE K
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY
The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Provincial Treasury is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer and preference will be given to previously disadvantaged groups.
APPLICATIONS : KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Treasury, P O Box 3613, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or
145 Chief Albert Luthuli Road, Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applications can also
be submitted via the e-services system, please assess this site
(eservices.gov.za).
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. N Cele
CLOSING DATE : 10 October 2025
NOTE : The new Z83 form must be used effective 1st January 2021 and can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. As per the DPSA directive
applicants must fill in all sections of the z83, no incomplete Z83 forms will be
accepted. The Z83 must be accompanied by a comprehensive Curriculum
Vitae. Only Provisionally shortlisted applicants will be contacted and requested
to submit their supporting documents. The Department will also conduct
reference checks with HR of current /previous employer(s) beside the
references provided on CV. Candidates will be subjected security screening
and a technical assessment. Under no circumstances will be faxed, emailed
and late applications be accepted. The Department discourages applications
that are registered and will not be held responsible for applications sent via
registered mail which are not collected from the post office. It is the
responsibility of the applicant to ensure that the application reaches the
Department timeously. Should you not hear from the Department within 3
months of the closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful.
Regrettably, due to excessive budget cuts, the department is not in a position
to meet any travel and subsistence costs relating to recruitment processes, or
relocation and resettlement costs for successful candidates. Preferences:
African Males, African Females and people with disabilities who meet the
requirements.
OTHER POST
POST 34/73 : MUNICIPAL BUDGET MANAGEMENT ANALYST REF NO: KZNPT 25/38
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (a remuneration package)
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A - 3-year NQF Level 7 Qualification in Financial Management/ Financial
Accounting/ Management Accounting. Working knowledge of the various
government financial systems. Working knowledge of word processing,
spreadsheet, and presentation software packages. A minimum of 3 years’
experience in Public Finance/ Treasury / External Auditing or related field. A
valid driver’s license. People with disabilities without valid Driver’s license will
be assisted by the department to meet work related travel obligations. Skills,
Knowledge, And Competencies: Working knowledge of: Public Sector,
particularly Local government sphere Knowledge of: Public Sector Financial
Management systems and relevant legislations/ statutes including: the
constitution (as amended), Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA),
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury regulations, Municipal
Systems Act (and amendments), Municipal Structures Act, Municipal Property
Rates Act, Public Finance Service Regulatory Framework (PSRF), SCM
Regulations, PFMA Regulations i.r.o Supply Chain Management, Provincial
Procurement Act and Regulations, Provincial Internal Audit Act, PGDS
(Provincial Growth and Development Strategy) National Treasury Guideline
Documents & Circulars In Year monitoring and National Treasury Returns
Performance measurements Asset Management and Asset Transfer
Regulations Generally Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP) and any other
applicable accounting standard used by local government. Computer skills:
Proficiency in Spreadsheets (MS Excel), Word processing (MS Word),
PowerPoint and Use of internet, intranet, e-mail etc. Verbal communication and
presentation skills Good interpersonal relations Research and analysis Report
writing and general writing skills Problem-solving Monitoring and forecasting
Basic project management Budgeting and budgeting systems Performance
budgeting and strategic planning Change management Statistical and
58
quantitative analysis Financial Management Time Management (Ability to work
under pressure and meet tight deadlines) Source, extract, isolate and interpret
information on the state of municipal finances.
DUTIES : Provide technical support to delegated municipalities on the preparation of
(multi- year) budgets, the monthly outcomes of those budgets, the submission
of reports by municipalities in the province as required in terms of the MFMA
and the facilitation of financial management capacity building training
programmes. Prepare monthly, quarterly, biannual, annual consolidated
reports and “Ad hoc” reports in the prescribed format on the state of delegated
municipalities’ budgets and financial performance. Monitor monthly compliance
by delegated municipalities with respect to the MFMA, DoRA and other
applicable legislations and regulations and submit compliance reports to the
Municipal Finance Co-ordinator. Research, analyse, share updates, and
provide support to designated municipalities on MFMA reforms. Advise and
prepare report for the Municipal Finance Co-ordinator on various approvals/
extensions requested by designated municipalities in terms of the legislations,
as well as measures to be taken in the case of non-compliance. Provide ad
hoc support activities and assist on Treasury related projects.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. R. A. Bhagwandeen Tel No: (033) 897 4450
59
ANNEXURE L
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENT AND TOURISM
The Department of Economic Development, Environment and Tourism is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. The intention is to promote representatively in the Public Service through
the filling of these posts and with persons whose appointment will promote representatively (specifically
Persons with Disabilities and Women), will receive preference. An indication by candidates in this regard
will facilitate the processing of applications. The candidates from the represented groups will be
considered, should there be no suitable candidates from the unrepresented groups who can be recruited.
People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants should apply through the following website
https://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za. Applications can also be hand delivered
to: Evridiki Towers, Registry Office No. B1-73, 19 Biccard Street, Polokwane,
0700 OR posted to Head of Department: Department of Economic
Development, Environment and Tourism, Private Bag X9484, Polokwane,
0700.
E-mailed or Hand delivered or posted applications (hard copies): E-mail
address to use is erecruitment@ledet.gov.za (Put post reference number in
subject line).
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025 @ 16h30
NOTE : All costs associated with an application will be borne by the applicant.
Applications on e-Recruitment system: Applicants should apply through the
following website: https://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za The application on e-
Recruitment system must be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV. The
applicant’s failure to attach a resent comprehensive CV will result in the
application not being considered/disqualified. Applicants using the e-
Recruitment System must ensure that all fields are completed correctly as
similarly prescribed in the Z83 application form as specified by the Directive on
Human Resource Management and Development for Public Service
Professionalisation Volume 1, paragraph1.30. The applicant confirms and
come to an agreement that all the information presented in his/her electronic
application is true, correct and legally binding as soon as he/she submit the
application. The confirmation of the application is deemed to be the signature
of the Z83. Hand delivered or posted applications (hard copies): Applicants who
choose to apply using the hand delivery method (hard copies), must submit
their applications on the new Z83 forms as issued by the Minister for Public
Service and Administration in line with Regulation 10 of the Public Service
Regulations, 2016, ), obtainable from any Public Service Department or
downloaded from www.dpsa.gov.za. Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents but must submit the fully
completed new Z83 and a resent comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. The
applicant’s failure to fully complete the Z83 and also attach a recent
comprehensive CV will result in the application not being considered /
disqualified. The new Z83 application form can be obtained from all
Government Departments or can be downloaded from www.dpsa.gov.za. The
new Z83 form must be fully completed, signed and initialled by the applicant.
Please use your signature or valid e-signature and not your name written in
block/typed print. A Z83 not signed will be deemed a regret. The
comprehensive completion of the Z83 form by the applicant must assist the
selection committee toward the suitability assessment of the candidate, based
on the information provided on the form. The following must be considered in
relation to the completion of the Z83 by applicants: Part A: All fields must be
completed in full. Part B: All fields must be completed in full except when:
Passport number: South African applicants need not provide passport
numbers. An applicant has responded “no” to the question “Are you conducting
business with the State or are you a Director of a Public or Private company
conducting business with the State? If yes, (provide the details)”, then it is
acceptable for an applicant to indicate not applicable or leave blank to the
question, “In the event that you are employed in the Public Service, will you
immediately relinquish such business interests?” “If your professional or
occupation requires official registration, provide date and particulars of
registration.” – Some applicants may not be in possession of such therefore it
is acceptable if left blank or if not applicable is indicated. Part C: All fields must
be completed. Part D: All fields must be completed. Part E, F & G: Noting that
there is limited space provided applicants often indicate ‘refer to Curriculum
60
Vitae (CV) or see attached’, this is acceptable as long as the CV has been
attached and provides the required information. If the information is not
provided in the CV, the applicant may be disqualified. It must be noted that a
CV is an extension of the application of employment Z83, and applicants are
accountable for the information that is provided therein. The questions related
to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part F must be answered.
Declaration must be completed and signed (Please use your signature or valid
e-signature and not your name written in block/typed print. A Z83 not signed
will be deemed a regret). A specific reference number for the post applied for
must be quoted in the space provided on the new Z83 form. The Department
will request the shortlisted candidate to submit the certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to Human Resources
Management and Development on / or before the date of the interview.
Applicants with foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their
qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA) and therefore must submit the copies of certificates and evidence of
evaluation by SAQA for foreign qualification if they are invited to attend
interviews. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a practical test,
integrity assessment, personal suitability checks in line with Regulation
57(1)(c), the logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. The
candidates shortlisted for posts on salary level 9 to 14, will be required to
disclose his/her financial interests in accordance with the applicable prescripts.
Applicants are not required to submit certified copies of educational
qualifications, academic record, identity document and a valid driver’s licence
(where required) with their application. Only shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified copies on or before the day of the interview. It is the
sole responsibility of an applicant to ensure that their applications reach the
Department of Economic Development, Environment and Tourism before the
stipulated closing date. No faxed or emailed applications will be considered.
The Department of Economic Development, Environment and Tourism reserve
the right not to fill any of these advertised posts. Applicants who have retired
from the Public Service with a specific determination that they cannot be
reappointed or have been declared medically unfit will not be considered.
Successful incumbents will be expected to sign a performance agreement
within one month after assumption of duty. For Management Echelon posts: In
order to ensure that potential SMS members have a background on processes
and procedures linked to the SMS, a further requirement for appointment at
SMS level will be the successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-
Entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government with
effect from 01 April 2020. This is a Public Service specific training programme
which will be applicable for appointments at SMS post. The link is as follows:
www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme. The selection
panel will, following the interview recommend a candidate to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive
on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Correspondence will,
due to the large number of applications envisaged to be received, be limited to
short-listed candidates only, and the applicant should accept that his/her
application has been unsuccessful should he/she not have heard from the
Department within 4 months of the closing date. However, applicants are
hereby advised to request reasons from the Department for any administrative
actions which has adversely affected them, within 4 months, should there be
any dissatisfaction in terms of section 5, sub-section 1 and 2 of the Promotion
of Administrative Justice Act 3 of 2000. The Department reserves the right not
to make any appointment to the posts advertised. The employment decision
shall be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. The
Department will not carry any related costs (transport, accommodation or
meals) for candidates attending interviews. The contents of the advertised post
will also be posted on the following websites www.limpopo.gov.za /
www.ledet.gov.za / www.dpsa.gov.za
61
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 34/74 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL REF NO: C2/25/1
Branch: Integrated Economic Development Services
SALARY : R1 813 182 – R2 042 535 per annum (Level 15), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). The remuneration package includes a basic (70% of packages),
State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according to the
individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 8 postgraduate qualification in Economics as recognized by SAQA.
Eight (8) years of experience at Senior Management level. Extensive
knowledge and experience in Enterprise Development, Trade and Investment,
Business Regulations and Compliance, Economic Planning, Local Economic
Development, Industrial Development and Project Management. Valid driver’s
license (with exception of person with disability). Competencies: Strategic
capability and leadership. Programme and project management. Change
management. Budget and financial management. People management and
empowerment. Knowledge management. Process competencies. Problem
solving and analysis. Client orientation and customer focus. Communication.
Service delivery innovation. Skills And Knowledge: A broad understanding of
Public Service Regulatory Framework and relevant prescripts. Knowledge of
current trends and innovations in integrated economic development.
Knowledge of national policy on Trade, Industry and Economic Development.
Computer literacy. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Oversee and contribute to policy development, strategic and business
planning. Lead and integrate local economic development, provincial planning
and research. Monitor the development of striving enterprises and
cooperatives. Monitor the establishment, development and promotion of
industries. Manage and administer the creation of a fair and healthy business
practice. Lead team and work with key stakeholders. Provide advice to the
Head of Department in Economic Development, Trade, Industrial
Development, Business Regulations and Compliance and Enterprise
Development. Manage and utilise resources (financial, human and physical) in
accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
OTHER POSTS
POST 34/75 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR REF NO: C2/25/2
Directorate: Trade & Investment Promotion
SALARY : R1 059 105 – R1 247 574 per annum (Level 12), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). Note: The remuneration package includes a basic (75% of
packages), State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund
(13% of basic salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according
to the individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Economics / Business Management / Development
Economics / Marketing / Business Studies / Entrepreneurship or equivalent as
recognized by SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience within Trade Development /
Trade Promotion of which three (3) years must be at supervisory level (ASD
level). Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with disability). Skills
and Knowledge: Good knowledge and understanding of legislative framework
governing public service. Sound and in-debt knowledge and experience of
relevant macro and micro economic policies. Investment appraisal and risk
management. Research and research methodology. Book-keeping.
Econometrics. Corporate governance management and leadership. Strategic
and analytical thinking skills. Financial and human resource management
skills. Computer literacy. People management and empowerment skills.
Negotiating skills. Report writing skills. Presentation skills. Communication
skills. Interpersonal skills. Problem solving and decision-making skills.
DUTIES : Ensure development and review of trade development and promotion
strategies and plans. Facilitate the implementation of trade development and
promotion programs. Facilitate the uptake of support offerings aimed at trade
development and promotion. Research on new markets to be targeted and
62
sustain the existing markets. Collaborate with key stakeholders in utilizing
strategic partnerships (Multi- and Bilateral agreements) for market access of
our provincial produce. Ensure optimal participation at trade promotion
platforms. Liaise with a wide spectrum of stakeholders on policy issues related
to trade development and promotion of provincial goods and services.
Establish and maintain appropriate internal controls within the unit. Ensure the
managing and monitoring of customized incentive packages. Enhance the
uptake of national trade promotion incentives by provincial enterprises.
Manage and facilitate resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance
with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/76 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR REF NO: C2/25/3
Directorate: Liquor Affairs & Business Regulations
SALARY : R1 059 105 – R1 247 574 per annum (Level 12), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). Note: The remuneration package includes a basic (75% of
packages), State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund
(13% of basic salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according
to the individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Commerce / Business Management / Economics /
Public Administration / Commercial Law / Law or equivalent as recognized by
SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience within the Business Environment field of
which three (3) years must be at supervisory level (ASD level). Valid driver’s
license (with exception of persons with disability). Skills And Knowledge:
Knowledge of relevant legislation. Knowledge of liquor affairs and business
registration. Excellent leadership skills. Communication skills. Interpersonal
skills. Strong analytical and problem-solving skills. Ability to work in a fast-
paced environment and meet deadlines. Computer literacy. Report writing
skills. Managerial skills. Planning and organising skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for managing and supporting all administrative functions related
to liquor licensing, including coordination with Local Liquor Authorities and the
Liquor Board. Oversee the maintenance of the provincial liquor outlet
database. Ensure compliance through quality assurance of applications and
facilitate responsible drinking initiatives. Handle disputes and legal processes
related to liquor license applications. Implement and administer liquor affairs
task and business registration policies and operational plans. Manage and
facilitate resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/77 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR REF NO: C2/25/4
Directorate: Economic Empowerment
SALARY : R1 059 105 – R1 247 574 per annum (Level 12), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). Note: The remuneration package includes a basic (75% of
packages), State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund
(13% of basic salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according
to the individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Commerce / Business Studies / Economics /
Business Management or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Five (5) years’
experience with Business Communities, Disadvantaged Groups and
Development Environment of which three (3) years must be at supervisory
level (ASD level). Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with
disability). Skills And Knowledge: Knowledge of national and provincial policy
frameworks, local government systems, business and industries driving the
Limpopo economy. In-dept knowledge of Local Economic Development,
Economic Development Trends and Public Administration. Planning and
organising. Problem solving and decision making. People management and
empowerment. Team leadership. Project management. Coordination. Client
orientation and customer focus. Diversity management. Communication
(verbal and written).
DUTIES : Policy development and implementation of strategic and operational plans.
Develop and support the establishment of enterprises across all sectors,
including target groups. Develop and implement policies and programmes to
63
promote economic empowerment. Facilitate stakeholder’s engagement with
key stakeholders including businesses, government agencies, private/civil
sector to foster collaboration and support for economic empowerment
initiatives. Develop and promote the implementation of B-BBEE intervention
programmes. Creating an enable environment for the implementation of B-
BBEE. Provision of non-financial and financial support to enterprises.
Development of strategies that identify economic opportunities suitable for the
target groups in sectors identified. Develop and implement capacity and skills
development programmes and mentorship programmes through shared
partnerships. Facilitate in conjunction with stakeholders the improvement of
enterprises through product development and competitiveness enhancement
to assist in expansion and market access. Develop strategies targeting
vulnerable groups that enable them to access resources for participation in
identified sub-sector. Manage and utilize resources (financial, human and
physical) in accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/78 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR REF NO: C2/25/5
Directorate: Tourism Planning & Regulations
SALARY : R1 059 105 – R1 247 574 per annum (Level 12), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). Note: The remuneration package includes a basic (75% of
packages), State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund
(13% of basic salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according
to the individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Tourism / Tourism Management / Travel and Tourism
/ Public Management / Tourism related field or equivalent as recognized by
SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience within Tourism Sector / Public Service /
Research and Planning fields of which three (3) years must be at supervisory
level (ASD level). Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with
disability). Skills And Knowledge: Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Sound and in-debt
knowledge and experience in planning and development strategies. Strategic
and analytical thinking skills. Excellent communication and presentation skills.
Problem solving and analysis skills. Financial management skills. Conflict
management skills. Planning and coordination skills. Human resource
management skills. Programme and project management skills. Policy
formulation skills. Risk management skills. Performance management and
measurement skills. Computer literacy. Facilitation expertise and stakeholder
management. Ability and experience to successfully manage special projects.
DUTIES : Ensure development of sectoral strategies and plans. Facilitate implementation
of programmes to support growth of the tourism sector. Manage projects and
work structures comprising public and private sector stakeholders. Contribute
to policy development, sector strategic planning and business planning.
Implement, oversee and assess the impact of the Tourism Growth Strategy.
Provide support in the development of local economic development
programmes in municipalities. Provide economic intelligence to support
planning and decision making in the tourism sector. Manage the collection,
organization and analysis of economic and development data to support
growth of the tourism sector. Design, conduct and manage research aligned
with tourism development imperatives in the province. Develop and implement
tourism sector research agenda. Conduct impact assessment of activities that
contribute to economic growth. Provide LED support to municipalities. Manage
and facilitate resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance with
relevant directives and legislation. Manage relations with stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/79 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: C2/25/6
Directorate: Risk & Integrity Management
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). Note: The remuneration package includes a basic (75% of
packages), State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund
(13% of basic salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according
to the individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
64
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Risk Management / Internal Auditing / Auditing /
Accounting or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience
within Risk Management of which three (3) years must be at supervisory level
(ASD level). Experience in Business Continuity Management will be an added
advantage. Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with disability).
Skills And Knowledge: Risk assessments. Maintenance of risk registers. Risk
reporting. Firs governance (risk policy, risk strategy and risk appetite &
tolerance). Risk awarenesses or training. Knowledge of the Regulatory
Framework (PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Public Service Act and
Regulations). A thorough understanding of Risk Management and Business
Continuity Management. Computer literacy in MS Packages (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint) and Risk Management Systems (BarnOwl, Cura, etc.).
Knowledge in financial and human recourse matters. Planning and organising
skills. Project management skills. Research and analytical skills.
Communication skills. Problem solving skills. Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Develop and ensure the implementation of Risk Management Policy, Risk
Management Strategy and Business Continuity Management. Facilitate the
assessment processes and the maintenance of risk registers. Monitor the
implementation of the action plans, assess action plans and the accompanying
portfolio of evidence. Develop a risk awareness culture through risk awareness
sessions. Check adherence to the Risk and BCM policies and strategies. Risk
training and awareness. Educate and train risk staff, risk champions and all
employees in the department on risk management principles, trends, best
practices, etc. Provide support to risk champions at least every quarter, in
updating Branch risk registers and assessing the management of risks. Create
awareness in the department on risk management (newsflash/classroom
training). Facilitate the Business Continuity Management and disaster
management initiatives of the department. Provide guidance to Branches on
Business Continuity Management. Quality assure and ensure updated
Business Continuity Plans are signed off by business. Manage and facilitate
resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/80 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR REF NO: C2/25/7
Directorate: Human Resource Management & Development: Human Resource
Recruitment & Planning
Re-advertisement, All applicants who previously applied Need To re-apply if
interested as the previous applications Will Not be considered.
SALARY : R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). Note: The remuneration package includes a basic (75% of
packages), State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund
(13% of basic salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according
to the individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in the Human Resource Management field or
equivalent, in the field of HRM, as recognized by SAQA. Five (5) years’
experience within the Human Resource Management field of which three (3)
years must be at supervisory level (ASD level). Three (3) years extensive
experience in the field of Human Resource Recruitment and Planning field
coupled with a deep understanding of transactional HR environment. Proven
successful completion of PERSAL Administration. Proven PERSAL Controller
training and working experience will be an added advantage. Valid driver’s
license (with exception of persons with disability) and be willing to travel. skills
and knowledge: Knowledge of Human Resource Management policies, acts,
regulations and systems. Broad knowledge of legislation regulating Human
Resource Management (HRM) and regulatory frameworks of the Public
Service. Management skills. Communication (verbal and written) and
negotiation skills. interpersonal skills. Analytical thinking. Report writing skills.
Policy formulation. Conflict management and problem-solving skills. Financial
management skills. Strategic thinking. Planning and organization skills.
Delegation and leading. Computer literacy (MS Excel, MS Word, MS
PowerPoint). Performance management. Project management. Recruitment
and selection. The code of remuneration. All labour legislation. Code of good
conduct in the Public Service. Departmental policies and procedures. Batho
Pele principles. Ability to interact with stakeholders.
65
DUTIES : Manage the provision of recruitment and selection services, Human Resource
Planning, HR Information Management and Policy Development. Implement
and maintain policy framework for Human Resources Operations practices in
the department. Manage personnel salaries administration system (PERSAL)
for the department. Ensure balance and holistic approach/effort in managing
an HR management function. Ensure effective and operational efficiency of
resource management including HR, finance and assets of the component.
Proactively building sound relationships with key stakeholders at all levels.
Manage LEDET establishment and database. Ensure compliance with the
legislative and Public Service regulatory framework. Management and
supervision of subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/81 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR REF NO: C2/25/8
Directorate: Security & Facility Management: Records & Knowledge
Management
Re-advertisement, All applicants who previously applied Need To re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). Note: The remuneration package includes a basic (75% of
packages), State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund
(13% of basic salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according
to the individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Records Management / Archival Studies / Information
Science / Information Management / Library or equivalent as recognized by
SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience within the Records and Knowledge
Management field of which three (3) years must be at supervisory level (ASD
level). Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with disability). Skills
And Knowledge: Knowledge of Basic Archives and Records Management.
Strategic capability and leadership. Financial management. People
management and empowerment. Problem-solving and decision-making skills.
Client orientation and customer focus. Motivational skills. Communication skills
(verbal & written). Service delivery and innovation skills. Computer literacy.
Conflict management skills.
DUTIES : Oversee Records and Knowledge Management in the department. Manage the
development and implementation of file plans, policies and procedure
manuals. Manage custody, receival and disposal of records. Manage the
implementation of Records Management, PAIA / POPIA, PAJA and Knowledge
Management. Conduct training/workshops on Records and Knowledge
Management. Manage and facilitate resources (financial, human and physical)
in accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/82 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SHERQ, HIV, STI, TB & COIDA REF NO: C2/25/9
Directorate: Employee Relations & Wellness
SALARY R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). Note: The remuneration package includes a basic (75% of
packages), State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund
(13% of basic salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according
to the individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Occupational Health and Safety / Nursing Science /
Social Work / Environmental Health or equivalent as recognized by SAQA.
Successful registration with South African Nursing Council (SANC) or South
African Council for Social Service professions (SACSSP) or relevant statutory
body. Five (5) years’ experience within the Employee Health and Wellness field
of which three (3) years must be at supervisory level (ASD level). Valid driver’s
license (with exception of persons with disability). Skills And Knowledge:
Knowledge of the relevant HIV, STI and TB (HST) related legislations, policies
and regulations. National Strategic Plan for RSA on HIV. STIs and TB and
Provincial HST Implementation Plan. Integrated Employee Health & Wellness
framework. Knowledge of OHS and COID legislation, policies and regulations.
Code of ethics. Batho Pele Principles. Departmental policies and procedures.
Knowledge of research and evaluation processes and procedures. Financial
66
management. Communication skills (verbal and written). Conflict management
and problem-solving skills. Counselling skills. Listening skills. Facilitation skills.
Coordination and monitoring skills. Planning and organizing skills. Report
writing skills. Supervisory skills.
DUTIES : Manage the implementation of Safety, Health, Environment, Risk and Quality
(SHERQ) and Injury of Duty (COIDA) prescripts. Manage the implementation
of HIV, STI and TB programmes in the department. Conduct health risk
assessment and implement mitigation strategies. Implement Cheka Impilo
programme. Develop implementation plan for management of occupational
injuries and diseases. Develop and market HST and SHERQ policies in the
department. Participate in the Provincial AIDS Council and Technical
Committees. Liaise with the Compensation Commissioner in the management
of Injuries on Duty cases. Management of all the resources in the Sub-
directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/83 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT REF NO: C2/25/10
Directorate: Supply Chain & Assets Management
SALARY R896 436 – R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). Note: The remuneration package includes a basic (75% of
packages), State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund
(13% of basic salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according
to the individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Financial Management / Supply Chain Management
/ Purchasing / Logistics / Finance / Accounting / Economics / Internal Audit or
equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience within Supply
Chain Management field of which three (3) years must be at supervisory level
(ASD level). Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with disability).
skills and knowledge: Sound and in-debt knowledge of relevant prescripts.
Application of human resources as well as understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service such as: Public Finance Management
Act (PFMA), SCM policies and procedures, Preferential Procurement Policy
Framework Act (PPPFA), Preferential Procurement Regulations, Treasury
Regulations (TR), Administrative Justice Act, Promotion of Access of
Information Act, The Constitution of the Republic of South Africa. People
management skills. Time management skills. Communication skills (verbal &
written). Conflict management and negotiation skills. Report writing skills.
Planning and organizing skills. Problem solving skills. Policy analysing and
interpretation skills. Computer literacy. Good governance and Batho Pele
Principles. Team leadership skills.
DUTIES : Manage, design and develop acquisition management policies, processes and
procedures. Compile operational/supply chain acquisition management plan
and obtain approval. Manage the execution of the acquisition management
plan. Monitor and review the acquisition management activities. Setting up the
id Evaluation, Bid Adjudication and Bid Specification Committees and render a
secretariat service to the relevant committees. Compilation of bid documents
and advertisements. Publishing of bid documents. Receipt (closing and
opening) of bid documents. Processing of bid documents. Compile terms of
reference to invite service providers for an expression of interest. Receive,
evaluate and adjudicate expression of interest. Compile a database of
approved suppliers. Manage the sourcing of bids from the database according
to the threshold values determined by the Treasury. Maintenance of discipline.
Management of performance and development. Undertake Human Resource
and other related administrative function. Establish implement and maintain
efficient and effective communication arrangement. Develop and manage the
operation plan of the sub-directorate and report on progress as required.
Develop, implement and maintain processes to ensure proper control of work.
Compile and submit all required administrative reports. Service on transverse
task teams as required. Procurement and asset management for the sub
directorate. Plan and allocate work. Quality control of work delivered by
employees. Manage and facilitate resources (financial, human and physical) in
accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
67
POST 34/84 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A REF NO: C2/25/13 (X2
POSTS)
Directorate: Wildlife Resources Management
Re- Advert, all applicants who previously applied Need To re-apply if interested
as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R612 480 – R700 620 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane (X1 Post) (Re-advertisement)
Waterberg District: Modimolle (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Nature Conservation / Environmental Science /
Natural Science / Biodiversity Management / Wildlife Management or
equivalent as recognized by SAQA. SAPS Firearm Competency Certificate
(Rifle) (compulsory). An Environmental Management Inspectorate
qualification, RHoDi DNA Sampling Course and Permitting Training Course will
be an added advantage. A minimum of six (6) years’ experience in Biodiversity
/ Conservation / Environmental field of which three (3) years must be in the
hunting and wildlife permitting and dehorning and taking of DNA samples of
rhino species field. Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with
disability). Skills And Knowledge: A thorough knowledge in both the provincial
and national environmental biodiversity legislations, including CITES,
biodiversity and other multi-lateral environmental agreements. Knowledge of
Environmental policies, Management of Damage Causing Animals,
Enforcement of Hunting regulatory frameworks, Promotion of Access to
Information Act and Promotion of Administrative Justice Act. Computer literacy.
Excellent communication (verbal and written) and report writing skills are
essential. Be able to work irregular hours and be able to travel as and when
required. Ability to work under pressure. Managerial skills. Stakeholder
engagement. People management. Planning and coordination skills.
Interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Management of the hunting industry. Management of damage causing animals.
Management of the establishment of wildlife centres. Monitoring of game
hunts. Management of the game farming industry. Management of the game
capture operations and translocations. Collection of specimens for forensic
analysis. Implementation of the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. Management of the permit
processing systems. Manage and facilitate marking, registration, management
and issuing of permits for elephant ivory and rhino horns. Manage and facilitate
resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/85 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR REF NO: C2/25/11
Directorate: Liquor Affairs & Business Regulations
SALARY : R582 444 – R686 091 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Commerce / Business Management / Economics /
Public Administration / Commercial Law / Law or equivalent as recognized by
SAQA. Minimum of three (3) years’ experience in the Liquor and Business
Regulations field. Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with
disability). Skills And Knowledge: Knowledge of the relevant legislation.
Excellent leadership and interpersonal skills. Communication skills. Strong
analytical and problem-solving skills. Ability to work in a fast-paced
environment and meet deadlines. Computer literacy. Planning and organizing
skills. Customer relations skills. Service delivery innovation skills.
DUTIES : Provide support in monitoring business registrations in accordance with the
Limpopo Business Registration Act to ensure compliance. Render secretariat
services to the Limpopo Local Liquor Authority and Limpopo Provincial Liquor
Board. Administer liquor licensing processes, including application handling,
liquor board adjudication, printing licenses and communicating the decision of
the board. Assist with compliance oversight, public education on liquor laws
and responsible drinking and trade. Track and report on the generation of
liquor-related revenue, including licensing fees, renewals and penalties, to
support financial oversight and planning. Conduct joint inspections in loco with
the Board and Tribunal. Coordinate liquor and business workshops and
education and awareness programmes. Manage and facilitate resources
68
(financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant directives and
legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/86 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR REF NO: C2/25/12
Directorate: Enterprise Development
SALARY : R582 444 – R686 091 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Local Economic Development / Development Studies
/ Business Management / Integrated Organisational Communication or
equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) to five (5) years’ experience in
the Enterprise Development field. Valid driver’s license (with exception of
persons with disability). Skills And Knowledge: In-debt knowledge of Local
Economic Development and Economic Development trends. Extensive
knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Services. Computer literacy. Planning and organizing skills. Problem
solving and decision-making skills. People management and empowerment.
Team leadership. Project management. Coordination skills. Client orientation
and customer focus. Diversity management. Communication skills (verbal and
written).
DUTIES : Coordinate the development of Enterprise development policies and
strategies. Monitor and evaluate the programmes implemented by sector
departments, municipalities and entities for MSME’s. Develop and coordinate
marketing programmes for MSME’s. Coordinate initiatives to reduce red tape
and ease the doing business environment for MSME’s to thrive. Facilitate the
LED programme through collaborative partnerships. Monitor the
implementation of the LED policy framework to strengthen the implementation
of Local Economic Development programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/87 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR REF NO: C2/25/14 (X5 POSTS)
Directorate: Tourism Destination Development & Transformation
SALARY : R582 444 – R686 091 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Capricorn District: Polokwane (X1 Post)
Mopani District: Giyani (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District: Lebowakgomo (X1 Post)
Vhembe District: Thohoyandou (X1 Post)
Waterberg District: Modimolle (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Tourism / Tourism Management / Development
Studies / Ecotourism Management / Tourism Development and Management
or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) to five (5) years’ experience
in the Tourism field at an Administrative Officer level. Experience in the Tourism
Destination Development and Tourism Sector Coordination field will be an
added advantage. Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with
disability). Skills And Knowledge: Knowledge of tourism empowerment
programmes and capacity building skills. Good understanding of rural tourism
development and transformation policy and legislative framework. Knowledge
of tourism empowerment programmes and capacity building skills. Strong
communication skills (verbal and written). Computer literacy (MS Excel, MS
Word, PowerPoint, Internet, etc.). Ability to work independently and under
pressure. Project management skills. Event management and stakeholder
coordination skills. Analytical and strategic thinking skills. Planning and
coordination skills. Conflict management and problem-solving skills. Financial
management skills. Planning and organizing skills. Personnel management.
DUTIES : Develop and co-ordinate implementation of destination development and
ecotourism strategies and plans in the province. Development and
management of a provincial tourism spatial plan. Support development of a
provincial tourism infrastructure plan including signage. Provide technical
support services to community-based tourism projects. Manager route and icon
development in support of provincial tourism growth strategy in the district.
Management of tourism services in the region. Coordinate and support the
implementation of tourism transformation programmes and related events in
the district. Drafting motivations to mobilise resources for identified tourism
development and reports. Coordinate stakeholder relations in the district.
Implement rural tourism, culture and heritage and mass tourism strategies in
69
the district. Identify tourism business opportunities for MSME. Manage and
facilitate resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/88 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER SPECIALIZED PRODUCTION REF NO:
C2/25/21
Directorate: Environmental Compliance & Enforcement
SALARY : R498 816 – R690 237 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Capricorn District: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Nature Conservation / Natural Science /
Environmental Science / Environmental Law / Policing or equivalent as
recognized by SAQA. Three (3) to five (5) years’ experience in the
Environmental Compliance & Enforcement field. Successful completion of the
Environmental Management Inspectors (EMI) course and detective experience
will be an added advantage. Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons
with disability). Skills And Knowledge: Knowledge and practical understanding
of the Constitution, practical experience in implementation of the National
Environmental Management Act (NEMA), together with all the Specific
Environmental Management Acts, Promotion of Administrative Justice Act
(PAJA) and interpretation thereof. Knowledge of environmental wildlife facility
inspection / auditing, monitoring procedures and methodologies. A good
knowledge and exposure to the Criminal Procedures Act and good
understanding of environmental legislation and knowledge of government
standard administrative procedures and policies will be essential. Knowledge
of administrative enforcement. Case docket management. Investigation skills.
Good communication skills (verbal and written). Project management. Conflict
management skills. Ability to write a communicative report. Ability to interpret
and apply environmental legislations. Good interpersonal relations skills. Good
organization and planning management skills. Computer literacy. Report
writing skills. Analytical and quantitative skills.
DUTIES : Administer compliance monitoring in accordance with the Environmental
Authorisations (EA), Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and permit
applications. Undertake compliance enforcement operations (biodiversity
conservation matters outside protected areas). Coordinate and participated in
compliance promotion / awareness. Perform and manage administrative and
related functions. Implement procedural systems, manuals and inspection
guidelines to carry out pro-active and reactive inspections. To record and
respond to public complaints of non-compliance with Provincial and National
Environmental legislations. Plan and conduct environmental compliance
inspections in response to public complaints of non-compliance to legislation.
Report on the environmental compliance status on all ad-hoc inspections and
make recommendations for compliance orders and investigations or prosecute
criminal offences in respect of environmental legislations. Provide support to
national and local government compliance inspection structures with a view to
ensure government’s efficient and effective compliance inspections with all
wildlife protection legislation, regulations, authorizations and applied
enforcement instruments including notices, court orders, directives, interdicts,
etc. Investigate, open cases and manage case dockets relating to any
environmental crime negatively impacting Biodiversity in Limpopo Province.
Participate and co-ordinate counter poaching operations. Manage and facilitate
resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/89 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER SPECIALIZED PRODUCTION REF NO:
C2/25/22
Directorate: Environmental Quality Management
SALARY : R498 816 – R690 237 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Natural Science / Environmental Management /
Environmental Law / Environmental Science / Biodiversity or equivalent as
recognized by SAQA. EAPASA registration in terms of S24H of NEMA. Three
(3) to five (5) years’ experience in the Environmental Quality Management field.
Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with disability). Skills And
70
Knowledge: Good working knowledge of environmental legislation and
policies. Practical knowledge of the Environmental Impact Assessment
process. Knowledge and understanding of the environmental impact hierarchy
and regulations. Sound understanding of other integrated environmental
management tools. Understanding of the objectives and provisions of the
National Environmental Management Act, 1998, and subordinate legislation.
Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts, Rules and Regulations. Good
communication skills (verbal and written). Computer literacy. Presentation
skills. Analytical skills. Conflict management and problem solving skills. Project
management and interpersonal relations. Ability to evaluate and review
documents and timeously produce thorough and informative documents and
formulate clear, concise, legally defensible decisions. Good planning and
organisation skills.
DUTIES : Management of the EIA process, including the drafting of environmental
authorisations and conditions of authorisations. Management and
dissemination of information and technical/procedural advice relating to
environmental impact management. Management and implementation of other
Integrated Environmental Management tools. Perform and manage
administrative and related functions. Conduct site inspections and compile site
visit reports. Evaluate environmental authorisation applications which include
the following: Provide technical and procedural advice to stakeholders (e.g.
Environmental Assessment Practitioners (EAP’s), local authorities and other
departments and applicants). Review, interpret and evaluate applications and
associated documentation according to established norms and standards.
Review and evaluate Environmental Management Programmes for mining,
municipal and water use applications. Review, evaluate and assess
applications of unlawful development. Records management. Manage and
facilitate resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/90 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: POLICY COORDINATION REF NO: C2/25/15
Directorate: Strategic Management
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Policy Development and Analysis / Public
Administration/Management / Public Management and Governance / Local
Government Management / Local Government and Administration / Public
Policy / Leadership and Development or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. A
postgraduate qualification in the mentioned qualifications will be an added
advantage. Three (3) years’ experience in the Policy Development, Analysis
and Coordination field. Experience in research, policy development, policy
analysis and stakeholder engagement. Valid driver’s license (with exception of
persons with disability). Skills and Knowledge: In-debt knowledge of the policy
development cycle and frameworks within the public sector. Understanding of
relevant public sector legislation, regulatory frameworks and prescripts.
Knowledge in stakeholder engagements and participatory approaches.
Knowledge in policy analysis, formulation and review. Research and report
writing skills. Problem-solving and decision-making skills. Excellent
communication skills (verbal and written). Interpersonal and stakeholder
engagement skills. Strong analytical and project management skills. Ability to
work collaboratively and engage effectively with internal and external
stakeholders. Computer literacy (MS Excel, MS Word, PowerPoint). Integrity,
proactiveness and attention to detail.
DUTIES : Coordinate, facilitate and manage the development, review and analysis of
departmental policies. Provide administrative and advisory role to
departmental units. Provide support on policy development to departmental
units. Coordinate submissions and presentations of finalised policies to
management for endorsement. Manage and facilitate resources (financial,
human and physical) in accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
71
POST 34/91 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
C2/25/16
Directorate: Human Resource Management & Development
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Workstudy Management / Operations Management /
Production Management / Management Services / Industrial Engineering or
equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Job Evaluation certificate will be an added
advantage. Three (3) to five (5) years’ experience as a Work Study Officer on
the Organisational Development field. Valid driver’s license (with exception of
persons with disability). Skills and Knowledge: Ability to interpret and apply
policy. Knowledge of ORG Plus. Analytical and innovative thinking. Research
and report writing skills. Workshop presentation and facilitation skills.
Computer literacy. Leadership skills. Organizing skills. Project management
skills. Conflict management and negotiation skills. Financial management
skills. Strategic management skills. Policy formulation. Adaptability during
changes to meet the goals. Change and diversity management.
DUTIES : Analyse Organisational Structure inputs and advise accordingly. Conduct
research on Organisational Structures. Identify the need for changes in the
Organisational Structure. Conduct functional and establishment investigations.
Design Organisational staff establishment structure. Draft submission for
approval of the Organisational Structure. Facilitate workshops on job
evaluation and job descriptions. Conduct job analysis. Conduct job evaluation
interviews. Analyse jobs on Equate System. Present analysed posts to the Job
Evaluation Panel. Draft submission for approval of job evaluation results. Draft
submission for implementation of job evaluation results. Monitor job evaluation
data base. Provide advice and guidance on the development of job
descriptions. Conduct research on the contents of job descriptions. Make
continuous consultations on job description related matters. Finalise job
descriptions. Monitor job description database. Facilitate workshops on
development of OFA. Analyse the information collected. Provide support to the
units/components. Finalise the OFA reports. Monitor and evaluate the OFA.
Facilitate workshops on development of procurement manuals. Analyse
procedure manuals and propose process/procedure improvements. Collect
data and document work processes and procedures. Facilitate Business
Process Re-engineering projects. Facilitate work processes and procedures
consultative meetings. Map the processes. Manage and facilitate resources
(financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant directives and
legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/92 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SHERQ, HIV, STI, TB & COIDA REF NO: C2/25/17
Directorate: Employee Relations & Wellness
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Waterberg District: Modimolle
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Social and Behavioural Science / Social Work /
Psychology / Occupational Health Nursing / Environmental Health or
equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Professional registration with SACSSP /
HPCSA / SANC or relevant statutory body. Three (3) years’ experience in the
Employee Health & Wellness field. Valid driver’s license (with exception of
persons with disability). Skills And Knowledge: Knowledge of all Employee
Health and Wellness and related policies and Acts. Specialised knowledge of
counselling. Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act and
Regulations. Knowledge of Compensation of Occupational Injuries and
Diseases Act and Regulations. Knowledge of National and Provincial HIV, STI
and TB strategies. Knowledge of Employee Assistance Programme. General
knowledge in HR related standards, practices and procedures. Knowledge of
Public Service Act and Procedures. Team building. Financial management.
Conflict management skills. Communication skills (verbal and written).
Planning and organizing skills. Facilitation skills. Listening skills. Problem-
solving skills. Coordination and monitoring skills. Computer literacy. Report
writing skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate and facilitate comprehensive Employee Health and Wellness
programmes. Conduct workplace health risk assessments and implement
mitigation strategies. Manage occupational health and safety programmes.
72
Support line management to implement strategies in relation to ill-health
related absenteeism. Facilitate OHS legal appointments in the district. Co-
ordinate safety awareness campaigns and health promotion initiatives.
Implement interventions and programmes aimed at enhancing employee
wellbeing and performance. Represent the department in the Waterberg
District AIDS Council forum. Co-ordinate and administer COIDA in the district.
Co-ordinate the sports and bereavement programme in the district. Administer
Occupational Injuries and Diseases. Facilitate and Coordinate Social club
Activities in the district. Manage and facilitate resources (financial, human and
physical) in accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/93 : ASSITANT DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS REF NO: C2/25/18
Directorate: Employee Relations & Wellness
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Labour Relations / Labour Relations Management /
Labour Law / LLB or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) years’
experience in the Labour Relations field of which two (2) years must be at a
supervisory level. Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with
disability). Skills And Knowledge: Strong knowledge of Labour Relations Act
(LRA), Employment Equity Act (EEA), Basic Conditions of Employment Act
(BCEA), Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), Public Service Regulations
(PSR) and Public Service Act (PSA). Knowledge of GPSSBC and CCMA
Procedures. Financial management. Planning and organizing skills.
Negotiation skills. People management. Problem-solving and analysis skills.
Integrity. Presentation skills. Communication skills (verbal and written).
Computer literacy. Report writing skills. Policy formulation skills. Ability to
interpret legislation/policies.
DUTIES : Coordinate and facilitate Labour Relations issues (i.e. grievances, misconduct
and disputes). Represent the department in disciplinary hearings. Finalizing
grievances and complaints from employees. Coordinating and supporting the
department in disputes referred to bargaining councils, as well as related
forums. Facilitate the implementation of the Labour Relations policies,
guidelines, procedures and provide advice, therefore. Conduct
workshops/awareness on labour relations matters. Represent the department
at the Provincial Chambers and management of strikes. Ensure keeping of
appropriate records and statistics as required by law. Make inputs to the
development of policies and procedures related to labour relations
management and implement such policies and procedures in dealing with
labour relations cases. Manage and facilitate resources (financial, human and
physical) in accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/94 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FIREARM MANAGEMENT REF NO: C2/25/19
Directorate: Security & Facility Management: Physical & Information Security
Management
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Policing / Law Enforcement / Security / Criminology
or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) to five (5) years’ experience
in the Firearm Control field. Firearm Competency certificate (handgun /
shotgun / rifle). Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with disability).
Skills And Knowledge: Knowledge of the Firearm Control Act and related
regulations. Knowledge in firearm control and firearm records management.
Effective firearm control. Planning and organizing. Computer literacy.
Presentation skills. Analytical thinking. Communication skills. Negotiation skills.
Conflict management and problem-solving skills. Financial management.
Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Manage departmental firearms for compliance with the Firearm Control Act 60
of 2000 and Regulation 12 and 79. Develop and maintain firearm control
policies and procedures. Conduct firearm audits, inspections and maintain and
keep firearm register up to date and compatible with the SAPS firearm register.
Conduct quarterly shooting exercises. Manage and facilitate resources
73
(financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant directives and
legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/95 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR REF NO: C2/25/20
Directorate: Management Accounting
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Waterberg District: Modimolle
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Financial Management / Accounting / Management
Accounting or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) to five (5) years’
experience in the Revenue Management field. Valid driver’s license (with
exception of persons with disability). Skills And Knowledge: Knowledge of
PFMA, DORA and Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of BAS. Computer
literacy. People management and communication skills. Interpersonal relations
and analytical skills. Financial management.
DUTIES : Manage and monitor revenue collection in the district. Ensure that revenue
collected is monitored, checked and banked as prescribed in the revenue
policy and procedure manual. Manage the clearing of bank exceptions as well
as all revenue control accounts. Authorize captured batches, journals and
ensure that supporting documents are attached. Review monthly revenue
management reports. Manage face value stock. Maintain and implement
effective, efficient and transparent systems of financial and risk management
and internal control. Maintain sound budgeting and budgetary control
practices. Bank reconciliation and debts management. Review monthly
revenue management reports. Manage face value stock. Manage and facilitate
resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/96 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A (ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMUNICATION & AWERENESS) REF NO: C2/25/29 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Environmental Empowerment Services
SALARY : R343 842 – R380 145 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District: Lebowakgomo (X1 Post)
Waterberg District: Modimolle (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Nature Conservation / Environmental Management /
Environmental Sciences or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. An NQF 7
relevant qualification will be an added advantage. Valid driver’s license (with
exception of persons with disability). Skills And Knowledge: Knowledge of
Environmental legislations and protocols. Knowledge of environmental
education and awareness programmes. Knowledge on education for
sustainability. Basic knowledge of linking basic education curriculum and
environmental education programs. Ability to facilitate stakeholder’s
engagement processes. Computer literacy. Excellent communication (verbal
and written). Report writing skills. Planning and organizing skills. Interpersonal
relations and project/program management skills. Presentation skills. Conflict
management and problem solving skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate the implementation of formal Environmental education programmes
in schools through Limpopo Green Schools for the Earth Programme (LGSEP)
and career expo. Facilitate the implementation of informal environmental
education programmes/activities. Implementation of Limpopo Enviro Explorer
Youth Programme (LEEYP). Coordinate commemoration of Environmental
Calendar days in the district. Conduct environmental awareness through all
legal media platforms. Facilitate, collaboration and forming partnership with
relevant stakeholders to implement environmental education and awareness
programmes. Represent the Department in various education and awareness
forums/structures in the district. Compile Environmental education and
awareness reports in the district.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/97 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A (ENVIRONMENTAL
GOVERNANCE & MUNICIPAL SUPPORT) REF NO: C2/25/30
Directorate: Environmental Empowerment Services
SALARY : R343 842 – R380 145 per annum, (OSD)
74
CENTRE : Waterberg District: Modimolle
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Nature Conservation / Environmental Management /
Environmental Sciences or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Valid driver’s
license (with exception of persons with disability). Skills And Knowledge:
Knowledge of Environmental legislation and protocols. Knowledge of
Municipalities Integrated Development Planning (IDP) process. Knowledge of
environmental capacity building approaches and programmes. Knowledge of
community development and conservation. Ability to facilitate stakeholder’s
engagement process. Computer literacy. Excellent communication skills
(verbal and written). Report writing skills. Planning and organizing skills.
Interpersonal relations and project/program management. Presentation skills.
Field work and data analysis. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Develop and manage the implementation of environmental capacity building
programmes. Develop and manage environmental multi stakeholder’s
seminars/indabas. Manage the implementation of the greenest municipality
competition. Facilitate the implementation of the local government support
strategy and the Municipal Environmental IDP toolkit. Represent the
Department in various environmental management forums. Manage and
facilitate formation and functioning of environmental stakeholder’s forums.
Compile sub-directorate reports. Support implementation framework for
environmental governance in Waterberg District. Perform all administrative and
related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/98 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO: C2/25/31
Directorate: Provincial Protected Areas Management
SALARY : R343 842 – R380 145 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Langjan Nature Reserve
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Nature Conservation / Wildlife Management /
Environmental Management / Natural Sciences or equivalent as recognized by
SAQA. Three (3) years’ working experience in the Nature Conservation field.
SAPS Firearm Competency Certificate. Valid driver’s license (with exception of
persons with disability). No criminal record. Skills And Knowledge: Knowledge
of Nature Reserve Management and Nature Conservation legislations and
policies. Knowledge of and the ability to interpret directives, policy, guidelines,
environmental legislation and multilateral environmental agreements.
Compiling of reports. Ability to use a firearm. Computer literacy. Analysis skills.
Client orientation and customer focus skills. Communication skills. People
management. Conflict management and problem-solving skills. Change and
diversity management skills. Planning and organizing skills. Policy formulation
skills. Financial management skills.
DUTIES : Plan and implement conservation management program in the nature reserve.
Plan an implement law enforcement programs in the nature reserve. Promote
biodiversity conservation awareness. Promote ecosystem functioning activities
of the reserve. Infrastructure management services within the nature reserve.
Plan and undertake surveys and recording of data in the reserve. Maintenance
of infrastructure and recreational facilities. Conduct stakeholder engagement
programmes. Perform tourism management activities as well as the
management of administration and related functions. Perform all administrative
and relations functions at the nature reserve. Manage and facilitate resources
(financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant directives and
legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/99 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: C2/25/23
Directorate: Head Of Department
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Personal Assistant / Secretarial / Office Assistant /
Office Administration / Office Management / Business Management /
Management Assistant or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Two (2) years’
experience in rendering support to SMS/Executive Management. Two (2)
years’ experience in managing traveling arrangements, including booking
flights, accommodation, transportation. Experience in diary and calendar
management. Knowledge and experience in Microsoft Office Suite, especially
75
Outlook and other relevant software. Experience in report writing and providing
Secretarial Services. Skills And Knowledge: Basic knowledge of the relevant
legislation / policies / prescripts and procedures governing public service.
Basic knowledge of financial administration. Exceptional organisational skills:
Ability to manage multiple tasks simultaneously with meticulous attention to
detail. Strong communication skills: Excellent written and verbal
communication skills to effectively interact with diverse individuals at all levels
and backgrounds. Proficiency in technology: Knowledge in Microsoft Office
Suite, calendar applications and other relevant software. Comprehensive
understanding of office management systems and applications. Discretion and
confidentiality: Ability to handle sensitive information with utmost discretion.
Anticipatory thinking: Proactive ability to anticipate needs and proactively
address potential issues. Professionalism and courtesy: Ability to maintain a
professional demeanour, demonstrating excellent interpersonal skills. Good
grooming and presentation. Self-management and motivation.
DUTIES : Receive telephone calls in an environment where, in addition to the calls for
the HoD, discretion is required to decide to whom the calls should be
forwarded. In the process the job incumbent should be finalise some enquiries.
Performed advanced typing work. Operates and ensures that office equipment,
e.g. fax machines and photocopiers are in good working order. Records the
engagements of the HoD. Utilizes discretion to decide whether to
accept/decline or refer to other employee’s requests for meetings, based on
the importance and urgency of the matter. Coordinates with and
sensitizes/advises the HoD regarding engagements. Compile realistic
schedules of appointments. Ensure the effective flow of information and
documents to and from the office of the HoD. Ensures the safekeeping of all
documentation in the office of the HoD in line with relevant legislation and
policies. Obtain inputs, collates and compiles reports. Scrutinizes routine
submission/reports and make notes and recommendations for the HoD.
Responds to enquiries received from internal and external stakeholders. Draft
documents as required. Filing of documents for the HoD and the unit where
required. Collects, analyses and collates information requested by the HoD.
Clarifies instructions and notes on behalf of the HoD. Ensures that travel
arrangements are well coordinated. Prioritizes issues in the office of the HoD.
Manages the leave register and telephone accounts for the unit. Handles the
procurement of standard items like stationary, refreshments etc. for the
activities of the HoD and the unit. Obtain the necessary signatures on
documents like procurement advices and monthly salary reports. Collects and
compiles all necessary documents for the HoD to inform him/her on the
contents. Records minutes/decisions and communicates to relevant role-
players, follow-up on progress made. Prepares briefing notes for the HoD as
required. Coordinates logistical arrangements for the meetings when required.
Collect and coordinates all the documents that related the HoD’s budget.
Assists HoD in the determining funding requirements for the purposes of MTEF
submissions. Keeps record of expenditure commitments, monitors expenditure
and alerts HoD of possible over and under spending. Checks and correlates
BAS reports to ensure that expenditure is allocated correctly. Identifies the
need to move funds between items, consults with the HoD and compiles draft
memos for this purpose. Compares the MTEF allocation with the requested
budget and informs the HoD of changes. Remains up to date with regard to the
prescripts/policies and procedures applicable to his/her work terrain to ensure
efficient and effective support to the HoD. Remains abreast with the procedures
and processes that apply in the office of the HoD.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/100 : SPECIAL PROGRAMMES OFFICER: SPECIAL PROGRAMMES REF NO:
C2/25/24
Directorate: Strategic Management
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mopani District: Giyani
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Public Administration / Public Management / HRM /
Gender Studies / Youth Studies / Disability Studies or equivalent as recognized
by SAQA. Two (2) years’ experience in the Special Programmes /
Administration within government. Valid driver’s license (with exception of
persons with disability). Skills And Knowledge: Knowledge and understanding
of the Public Service, HR Policies, Change Management Engagement,
76
Employment Equity, Affirmative Action measures and other legislation related
to transformation. Policy analysis, development and monitoring. Knowledge of
Gender Equity and Women Empowerment Programme. Promotion of the rights
of women, people with disabilities and the youth. Mainstreaming and
implementation of gender, elderly programmes, youth developmental
progammmes and job access strategy. Excellent communication skills (verbal
and written). Coordination skills. Planning and organisation skills. Leading and
controlling skills. Research skills. Report writing and presentation skill.
Knowledge management. Problem solving and analysis skills. Programme and
project management skills. Financial management and service delivery
innovation skills. Client orientation, stakeholder management and customer
focus. Policy analysis, development and monitoring skills.
DUTIES : Compile and submit progress reports on: Achieved equity targets and
compliance with employment equity plan. Gender sensitive workplace.
Disability friendly environment and percentage of disability targets achieved.
Integration of youth, gender, disability and elderly programmes. Financial
management within the directorate. Provide support at the districts and / or
head office on special programmes imperatives. Capacity building and
awareness to all staff. Ensure efficient and effective resource management.
Information dissemination. Networking and benchmarking for best practice.
Manage all procurement and logistical needs for the sub-directorate at the
district level and liaise with SCM for processing. Implementation of national and
provincial directives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/101 : COMMUNICATION OFFICER REF NO: C2/25/25
Directorate: Communication Services
Re-advertisement, all applicants who previously applied Need To re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Capricorn District: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Communication / Journalism / Media studies / Public
Relations / Marketing or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Two (2) years’
experience in the Communication environment. Photographic skills and
registration with PRISA will be an added advantage. Valid driver’s license (with
exception of persons with disability). Skills and Knowledge: Computer literacy
(MS Office applications). Knowledge of applicable legislation of government
framework and relevant legislation. Good communication skills (verbal &
written) including interpersonal skills. Presentation skills. Report writing skills.
Analytical thinking. Good negotiation skills. Strategic thinking. Adaptability.
DUTIES : Compile, plan and implement the district events calendar. Support
departmental events / activities. Monitor and evaluate events. Write articles for
the departmental newsletter. Source information for both the intranet and the
website. Ensure correct information into departmental publications (online and
printed). Develop image bank of the department (Officials, events etc.).
Manage the departmental media profile and create relations with the media.
Provide journalistic duties to events in the districts. Conduct regular media
monitoring and feedback sessions with units affected to manage their
communication. Regularly update media contact list. Provide information and
pictures for social media platform. Develop networks for communication at
district level.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/102 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: CONDITIONS OF SERVICE REF NO:
C2/25/26
Directorate: Human Resource Management & Development
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mopani District: Giyani
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Human Resource Management or equivalent, in the
field of HRM, as recognized by SAQA. Two (2) years’ experience in Human
Resource Management: Conditions of Services field. Successful completion
PERSAL Administration training. Valid South African driver’s license (with
exception of persons with disability). Skills And Knowledge: Knowledge of
Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations and PILIR. Knowledge of
relevant government legislative prescripts. Knowledge of the PERSAL System.
77
Knowledge of the PCM System. Ability to interpret and apply policy. Analytical
and innovative thinking. Business writing skills. Report and analysis skills.
Computer literacy. Accurate data capturing. Data management skills.
Presentation and communication skills. Financial and change management
skills. Programme and project management skills. Problem solving skills. Client
orientation skills. Policy formulation. Project management.
DUTIES : Supervise and render effective administration process of all types of service
terminations (death, resignations, retirements, contract expiry and discharge).
Administer leave process including Policy and Procedure on Incapacity Leave
and Ill-health Retirement (PILIR). Supervise processing of leave
gratuities/discounting, termination of service and processing of pension
documents. Administer long service awards, medical aid and housing
allowance. Manage PERSAL transactions related to service benefits. Utilise
resources effectively. Adhere to Batho Pele Principles, Service Standards as
well as Human Resource Policies and Procedures. Compile analysis and CoE
liability reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/103 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SHERQ, HIV, STI, TB & COIDA REF NO:
C2/25/27
Directorate: Employee Relations & Wellness
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Safety Management / Social and Behavioural
Sciences / Environmental Health / HRM&D or equivalent as recognized by
SAQA. Two (2) years’ experience in the Employee Health and Wellness field.
Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with disability). Skills And
Knowledge: Knowledge of COIDA, Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Compensation Fund Policies, Public Financial Management Act,
National Treasury Regulations, PoPIA, PAIA and Customer Services (Batho
Pele Principles). Knowledge of the Employee Assistance Programme.
Communication skills (verbal and written). Computer literacy. Report writing
skills. Listening skills. Telephone etiquette and basic interpersonal skills. Data
and records management. Problem-solving and decision-making skills.
Analytical thinking skills. Planning and organization skills. Coordination and
monitoring skills.
DUTIES : To implement the plan for management of occupational injuries and diseases.
Conduct safety awareness workshops in the department and districts. Develop
and maintain register for occupations injuries and diseases at Head Office.
Conduct incident investigations in the workplace and ensure timeous reporting
thereof according to the requirements of the General Administrative
Regulations. Assist the development and review of OHS/COID general service
delivery standards. Monitor implementation of COID in the districts. Collate
information on trends regarding occupational injuries and diseases and report
quarterly and annually. Liaise with Compensation Commissioner on injury on
duty cases. Render administrative support to the directorate. Environmental
Health promotion programmes (communicable and non-communicable
diseases). Implement Employee Assistance Programme in the department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/104 : CONSUMER OFFICER REF NO: C2/25/28
Directorate: Consumer Affairs
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Waterberg District: Modimolle
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Business Management / Economics / Public
Administration / Commercial Law / Business Administration / Law or equivalent
as recognized by SAQA. Two (2) years’ experience in Consumer Affairs field,
dealing with LCPA, CPS Legislation or inspectorate and investigation
environment. Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with disability).
Skills And Knowledge: Knowledge of relevant legislation (CPA, LPCA and
PSA). Knowledge of Public Sector Policies and Regulations. Consumer care
skills. Good communication skills (verbal and written). Negotiation skills.
Presentation skills. Analytical and problem-solving skills. Report writing skills.
Computer literacy. Planning and organising skills. Public speaking skills.
78
Attention to detail. Project management skills. Facilitation skills. Ability to work
under pressure.
DUTIES : Render administrative support services in the Consumer Affairs offices.
Conduct compliance inspections. Conduct investigation of consumer
complaints. Conduct consumer education and prepare reports. Liaise with
consumers and stakeholders. Administer LPCA and CPA.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/105 : CLUSTER SALES OFFICER REF NO: C2/25/32
Directorate: Commercial Development
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959.per annum (level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Tourism Management / Hospitality Management /
Business Management / Marketing Management or equivalent as recognized
by SAQA. Two (2) to three (3) years’ working experience in the Sales and
Marketing field. Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with disability).
No criminal record. Skills And Knowledge: Knowledge and the ability to
interpret and apply directives, policy, guidelines, environmental legislation and
sales and marketing strategies. Computer literacy. Analytical thinking skills.
Problem solving and analysis skills. Client orientation and customer focus.
Communication skills (verbal and written). Customer relationship
management. People management. Leadership skills. Financial management
skills.
DUTIES : Implement strategic marketing plans and sales plans for Limpopo Wildlife
Resorts (LWR). Render advertising and promotion activities, including print,
online, electronic media and direct mail. Implement product positioning,
packaging and pricing strategy to produce the highest possible long-term
market share. Establish and maintain relationships with industry influencers
and key strategic partners. Manage sales/marketing operating budget. Identify
media, trade marketing and advertising platforms. Provide after-sales services
to customer base. Recruit new customers. Update information on the website
and publications regularly. Post all activities on social media platforms.
Respond to online enquiries, complaints and compliments. Conduct all sales
promotional activities. Distribution of collaterals for resorts. Coordinate product
promotion and advertising. Coordinate co-marketing with the concessionaires
in the resort. Coordinate resort marketing initiatives and proposals. Coordinate
resorts’ marketing reports. Report writing. Partnership management with
communities, public and private stakeholders. Community levies. Community
empowerment. Kids and Parks programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/106 : PROJECT ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: C2/25/33
Directorate: Commercial Development
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Tourism Management / Hospitality Management /
Business Management / Marketing Management or equivalent as recognized
by SAQA. Two (2) to three (3) years’ working experience in the Sales and
Marketing field. Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with disability).
No criminal record. Skills And Knowledge: Knowledge and the ability to
interpret and apply directives, policy, guidelines, environmental legislation and
sales and marketing strategies. Computer literacy. Analytical skills. Problem
solving and analysis skills. Client orientation and customer focus.
Communication skills (verbal and written). Customer relationship
management. People management. Leadership skills. Financial management
skills. Project management.
DUTIES : Implement commercialisation of nature reserves. Implement LWR Revenue
Enhancement Projects. Facilitate and coordinate LWR EPWP Projects.
Facilitate and coordinate community and stakeholder engagements.
Implement strategic marketing plans and sales plans for Limpopo Wildlife
Resorts (LWR). Render advertising and promotion activities, including print,
online, electronic media and direct mail. Implement product positioning,
packaging and pricing strategy to produce the highest possible long-term
market share. Establish and maintain relationships with industry influencers
and key strategic partners. Manage sales/marketing operating budget. Identify
79
media, trade marketing and advertising platforms. Provide after-sales services
to customer base. Recruit new customers. Update information on the website
and publications regularly. Post all activities on social media platforms.
Respond to online enquiries, complaints and compliments. Conduct all sales
promotional activities. Distribution of collaterals for resorts. Coordinate product
promotion and advertising. Coordinate co-marketing with the concessionaires
in the resort. Coordinate resort marketing initiatives and proposals. Coordinate
resorts’ marketing reports. Report writing.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/107 : BOOKINGS & RESERVATION OFFICER REF NO: C2/25/34 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Commercial Development
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Tourism Management / Hospitality Management /
Business Management or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Two (2) to three
(3) years’ working experience in the Bookings and Reservation field or Front
Office role in a lodge, resort or eco-tourism setting. Valid driver’s license (with
exception of persons with disability). No criminal record. skills and knowledge:
Knowledge and the ability to interpret and apply directives, policy, guidelines,
environmental legislation and project management. Computer literacy.
Analytical skills. Conflict management and problem solving skills. Client
orientation and customer focus. Communication skills (verbal and written).
Customer relations management. People management. Leadership skills.
Stakeholder management. Sales and product knowledge (Provincial Protected
Nature Reserves and Reports). Financial management. Telephone etiquette.
Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Manage and process all booking inquiries through telephone, email and online
platforms. Provide detailed information about the resort’s accommodation,
wildlife activities (e.g. game drives, hiking trails, etc.), conservation projects,
dining options and community-based experiences. Accurately update and
manage the reservation system, including guest preferences and special
requests. Liaise with resort staff and operations teams to ensure availability of
activities and accommodation. Send booking confirmations, invoices, payment
requests and pre-arrival communication to guests and resort officials.
Coordinate group and package bookings, including tailored itineraries and
activity packages. Monitor occupancy levels and suggest strategies to optimise
lodging capacity. Handle cancellations, changes and no-shows according to
the Reservations policy and ensure proper guest communication. Assist in
managing partnerships with booking agents, tourism boards and online travel
platforms. Handle clients’ queries, complaints and compliments. Filing and
safekeeping of documents. Liaise with IT unit for Online Reservations and
Booking System upgrades. Prepare daily, weekly and monthly booking reports
for management review. Verify and compile database of revenue activities,
including guest profiles, booking statistics and revenue reports. Review
reservation policies and procedures periodically, identify means of improving
productivity and efficiency. Administer complementary bookings. Review
annual tariffs according to different categories. Loading of tariffs in the
reservation system. Develop and review terms and conditions for reservations.
Identify opportunities to promote additional services or packages to enhance
customer experience. Provide input into promotional campaigns and seasonal
offers based on booking trends. Implement promotions and specials.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/108 : PERSONNEL OFFICER: CONDITIONS OF SERVICE REF NO: C2/25/35 (X2
POSTS)
Directorate: Human Resource Management & Development
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District: Lebowakgomo (X1 Post)
Vhembe District: Thohoyandou (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Human Resource Management or equivalent, in the
field of HRM, as recognized by SAQA. One (1) to two (2) years’ experience in
Human Resource Management: Conditions of Services field will be an added
advantage. Successful completion PERSAL Administration training will be an
added advantage. Valid South African driver’s license (with exception of
80
persons with disability). Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge of Public Service
Act, Public Service Regulations and PILIR. Knowledge of relevant government
legislative prescripts. Knowledge of PERSAL system. Knowledge of PCM
system. Business writing skills. Report and analysis skills. Computer literacy.
Accurate data capturing. Data management skills. Presentation and
communication skills. Financial and change management skills. Programme
and project management skills. Problem solving skills. Client orientation skills.
Policy development skills.
DUTIES : Render effective administration process of all types of service terminations
(death, resignations, retirements, contract expiry, and discharge). Administer
leave process including Policy and Procedure on Incapacity Leave and Ill-
health Retirement (PILIR). Processing of leave gratuities/discounting,
administer long service awards, medical aid and housing allowance.
Administer termination of service and processing of pension documents.
Capture and process PERSAL Transactions related to service benefits.
Processing of pension benefits. Utilise resources effectively. Adhere to Batho
Pele Principles, Service Standards as well as Human Resource Policies and
procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/109 : REVENUE CLERK REF NO: C2/25/36 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Management Accounting
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District: Lebowakgomo (X1 Post)
Waterberg District: Lephalale Service Centre (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 4 qualification (Grade 12) with Accounting as a subject or equivalent
as recognized by SAQA. An appropriate NQF 6 qualification in Financial
Management / Accounting / Management Accounting will be an added
advantage. Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with disability).
Skills And Knowledge: Knowledge of PFMA, DORA and Treasury regulations.
Computer literacy. People management and communication skills.
Interpersonal relations and analytical skills. Financial management.
DUTIES : Issuing of receipts and safeguarding of revenue assets and stock registers.
Ensure that all revenue is collected, recorded and banked as prescribed in the
revenue policy and procedure manual. Ensure proper safe keeping of face
value stock. Compile monthly revenue statistics. Clearing of exceptions in
financial accounts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/110 : SENIOR FIELD RANGER REF NO: C2/25/37 (X3 POSTS)
Directorate: Provincial Protected Areas Management
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Langjan Nature Reserve (X1 Post)
Lekgalameetse Nature Reserve (X1 Post)
Mphaphuli Nature Reserve (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 4 (Grade 12) / ABET / AET level 3 qualification or equivalent as
recognized by SAQA. A National Diploma in Nature Conservation or related will
be an added advantage. Valid SAPS Firearm Competency Certificate. Related
training is essential (from SAWC or any other accredited institution). One (1) to
two (2) years’ working experience in the Nature Conservation field. Valid
driver’s license (with exception of persons with disability). Physically fit. No
criminal record. Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge of nature reserve
management and nature conservation legislations and policies (national and
provincial). Ability to use a firearm. Computer literacy. Problem solving and
analysis skills. Client orientation and customer focus. Communication skills.
DUTIES : Assist with the protection of the nature reserve and its natural resources. Lead
teams with the following: law enforcement operations / programmes (nature
conservation patrols), inspection and repair the boundary fence, infrastructure
maintenance, manage visitors’ behaviour and actions in the reserve, reporting
non-compliance, assist with fire management services and assist with access
control. Assist with monitoring of ecological processes, habitats and
biodiversity in the nature reserve which include: gathering biological and
ecological data, identify and conduct ecological rehabilitation programs such
as soil erosion controls, alien plants removal and bush encroachment
programs. Assist Wildlife Management in other areas and communities.
81
Conduct conservation management programmes (water provision and fire
management). Assist with game monitoring programmes. Assist with
administration activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/111 : MESSENGER/DRIVER: RECORDS & KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT REF
NO: C2/25/38
Directorate: Security & Facility Management
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District: Lebowakgomo
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 3 (Grade 8 / ABET / AET) qualification or equivalent as recognized by
SAQA. Seven (7) to twelve (12) months experience in driving will be an added
advantage. A valid PDP licence. Valid driver’s license (with exception of
persons with disability). Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge of messenger
services. Knowledge of planning and organising. Knowledge of roads and
places. Knowledge of messenger services. Computer literacy. Good people
skills. High level of reliability. Basic written communication skills. The ability to
act with tact and discretion. Good grooming and presentation skills. Ability to
operate photocopier machine. Organisational skills.
DUTIES : Drive light and medium motor vehicles to transport passengers and deliver
other items such as mail and documents. Do routine maintenance on the
allocated vehicle and report defects timely. Complete all the required and
prescribed records and logs books with regard to the vehicle and the goods
handled. Collect mail and documents from all over as requested. Collect mail
from post office including heavy boxes. Deliver invitations to stakeholders e.g.
business group. Collect stationery and goods from stores. Collect and deliver
documentation and related items in the department. Copy and fax documents.
Assist in the registry activities. Attend to district logistical support services.
Provide transport services for the district officials.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/112 : FIELD RANGER REF NO: C2/25/39 (X15 POSTS)
Directorate: Provincial Protected Areas Management
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Atherstone Nature Reserve (X2 Posts) (X1 Post re-advertisement)
Brackenridge Nature Reserve (X1 Post) (re-advertisement)
Hans Merensky Nature Reserve (X1 Post)
Langjan Nature Reserve (X1 Post)
Makapans Valley WHS (X1 Post)
Matrompie Nature Reserve (X1 Post)
Modjadji Nature Reserve (X1 Post)
Mokolo Dam Nature Reserve (X1 Post)
Mphaphuli Nature Reserve (X1 Post)
Nwanedi Nature Reserve (X2 Posts) (re-advertisement)
Turfloop Nature Reserve (X2 Posts)
Witvinger Nature Reserve (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 4 (Grade 12 / ABET / AET level 3) qualification or equivalent as
recognized by SAQA. Valid SAPS Firearm Competency Certificate
(handgun/rifle/shotgun). Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with
disability). Physically fit. No criminal record. Experience in conservation
management programs will be an added advantage. Conservation training
certificate / qualification is essential from accredited institution. Skills And
Knowledge: Knowledge of nature reserve management and nature
conservation legislations and policies (national and provincial). Ability to use a
firearm. Problem solving and analysis skills. Client orientation and customer
focus. Communication skills.
DUTIES : Assist with the protection of the nature reserve and its natural resources.
Conduct law enforcement operations / programs (nature conservation patrols).
Inspect and repair the boundary fence. Infrastructure maintenance. Manage
visitors’ behaviour and actions in reserves. Report non-compliance. Assist with
fire management services. Assist with access control. Assist with monitoring of
ecological processes, habitats and biodiversity in nature reserves which
include gathering biological and ecological data. Identify and conduct
82
ecological rehabilitation programmes such as soil erosion controls, alien plants
removal and bush encroachment programmes. Assist Wildlife Management in
other areas and communities. Conduct conservation management
programmes (water provision and fire management programmes). Assist with
game monitoring and management programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/113 : CHEF REF NO: C2/25/40
Directorate: Provincial Protected Areas Management
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Nylsvlei Nature Reserve
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 4 qualification (Grade 12 / ABET / AET certificate) or equivalent as
recognized by SAQA. A certificate (NQF 2) of assistant Chef. One (1) to two
(2) years’ experience as an Assistant Chef in the Food and Beverages field will
be an added advantage. Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with
disability). Physically fit. No criminal record. Skills And Knowledge: Problem
solving and analysis skills. Client orientation and customer focus. Excellent
communication and interpersonal skills. The ability to operate elementary
machines and equipment. Ability to supervise a team. Ability to work under
sustained pressure. Computer literacy. Thorough knowledge of the
professional cookery in hospitality environment. Willingness to work long
extraordinary hours. Strong knowledge of culinary techniques, food safety
practices and nutrition. Exceptional supervisory skills with the ability to motivate
and manage a diverse kitchen team. Strong organizational and time
management skills, with the ability to thrive in a fast-paced environment. A
passion for culinary excellence and a commitment to delivering outstanding
guest experiences. Ability to organize. Integrity. Professionalism. Service
orientation. Decision-making ability. Delivering results and meeting standards
and expectations. Good leadership ability and able to motivate a team. Conflict
resolution. Innovative. Can easily adapt to change.
DUTIES : Facilitate the menu planning and costing. Ordering and stock control.
Implement Health and Safety Regulations and Standards. Maintain operational
equipment. Staff supervision. Organize food service at buffet stations and
service of special dietary requirements. Follow food hygiene and safety
standards during storage and production of food. Assist with monthly and
quarterly asset stock take of kitchen equipment and reporting of shrinkage.
Ensure that all fridges, freezers and store facilities are clean, neat and packed
according to unit standards. Administer general mass matters. Administer
register stock taking and mass purchases. Control mass stock. Set up the
kitchen for meals preparations with cooking utensils and equipment. Plan, pre-
preparation and cook of food as per healthy menu. Ensure well cooked food
and appealing plate presentation. Serve meals and provide waiter service.
Coordinate Chef on Wheels services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/114 : CLEANER: WORK ENVIRONMENT & FACILITY SERVICES REF NO:
C2/25/41 (X3 POSTS)
Directorate: Security & Facility Management
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Mopani District: Giyani (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District: Lebowakgomo (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 3 qualification (Grade 8 / ABET / AET certificate) or equivalent as
recognized by SAQA. Skills And Knowledge: Must be able to function in a team.
Willing to receive guidance and instructions. Basic knowledge of cleaning
techniques. Ability to use cleaning equipment and products, application thereof
according to specified cleaning techniques to ensure acceptable clean and
neat appearance of building. Understanding of basic hygiene practices.
Chemical handling skills. Knowledge of cleaning products an applications.
Ability to read and write. Communication and listening skills. Planning,
organising and people skills.
DUTIES : Cleaning of offices, reception area, corridors, elevators, boardrooms, kitchen,
restrooms, equipment, state property and assets on a daily basis. Keep and
maintain cleaning materials and equipment. Empty office dustbins daily and
dispose of all refuse appropriately in the refuse bins for collection. Check
bathrooms cleanliness regularly. Clean windows on the inside and outside.
83
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designed cupboards.
Provide assistance in the preparations of meetings in boardrooms. Serving
water / tea / coffee. Request cleaning materials.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 34/115 : ROOM ATTENDANT REF NO: C2/25/42
Directorate: Provincial Protected Areas Management
SALARY : R138 486 – R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Lekgalameetse Nature Reserve
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 3 qualification (Grade 8 / ABET / AET certificate) or equivalent as
recognized by SAQA. A housekeeping certificate will be an added advantage.
Physically fit. No criminal record. Skills And Knowledge: Ability to work
independently and under sustained pressure. Excellent communication and
customer relations services skills. Ability to interact with guests and addressing
their needs according to job resources. Flexibility in working hours, including
weekends and holidays. Time management skills. Ability to complete tasks
efficiently and prioritize workload. Must have knowledge of cleaning products
and equipment. Ability to execute instructions. Ability to work effectively as part
of a team. Adaptability. Be physically fit to perform tasks like lifting, carrying
and moving heavy items. Work under extreme weather conditions (cold and
hot). People skills. Ability to organise. Service orientation. Decision-making
ability. Be self-motivated. Conflict management. Innovation skills.
DUTIES : Cleaning tourism facilities, ensuring that guest rooms are properly cleaned,
empty waste bins, rooms are properly prepared with clean linen. Clean kitchen,
crockery and cutlery. Housekeeping services- remove, wash, iron and store
linen properly Guest suppliers are provided and regularly cleaned. Cleaning
public areas – all tourist’ facilities and surroundings are always clean and ready
for use by guests. Always adhere to hospitality standards. Ensure records of
stock and amenities. Light bulbs are checked and replaced if necessary. Report
damaged items in the guest rooms. Complete hospitality forms from guest.
Cleaning of conference halls.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
84
ANNEXURE M
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions.
Candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 07 October 2025
NOTE : N.B. Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae. In order to alleviate the administration burden on HR
Sections as well as considering the cost for applicants, Departments are
encouraged to request certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents from shortlisted candidates only which may be submitted to HR on
or before the day of the interview following communication from the relevant
HR section of the Department. All posts, health/engineering posts that are
advertised within the Department professional registration will be required from
various statutory councils for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of
application documents should be submitted separately for every post that you
wish to apply for. Please ensure that you clearly state the full post description
and the relevant Post Reference Number on your application. No fax
applications will be considered. Applicants must ensure that they fully complete
and sign form Z 83, even if they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or
unsigned applications will not be considered. If you are currently in service,
please indicate your PERSAL number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing
internal processes, the Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at
any time. The Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All
short-listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment.
If no response is received from the Mpumalanga Department of Health within
90 days after the closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume
that their application was not successful. Please quote the CORRECT
references when applying and where possible the station / centre where the
post is. www.mpuhealth.gov.za Only Online Applications will be accepted. NB:
Candidates who are not contacted within 90 DAYS after the closing date must
consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. Please Note The
Department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised
posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well served.
(People with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications)
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the posts were posted in the Public Service
Vacancy Circular 29 dated 15 August 2025, the post of Operational Manager
Nursing (PN-B3): Maternity (Bethal Hospital, Gert Sibande District) with Ref.
No.: MPDoH/Aug/25/322), the post of Operational Manager Nursing (PN-A5):
General (Standerton Hospital, Gert Sibande District) with Ref No,
MPDoH/Aug/25/327 with the closing date of 29 August 2025 and the post
posted in the Public Service Vacancy Circular 32 dated 05 September 2025,
the post of Administrative Officer: Risk and Security (Mapulaneng Hospital,
Ehlanzeni District) with Ref No: MPDoH/Sept/25/374 its closing date of 19
September 2025, has been withdrawn.
OTHER POSTS
POST 34/116 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 3 REF NO: MPDOH/SEPT/25/375
SALARY : R1 322 352 - R1 647 630 per annum
CENTRE : Mapulaneng Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner (2025) (Independent Practice). A valid work permit will be required
from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary
management and teamwork and experience in the respective medical
discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public Service regulations and
policies. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking, examination, clinical
85
assessment and clinical management. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner
(Independent Practice). A minimum of eleven (11) years relevant experience
after registration with a recognised foreign health profession council and / or
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice) for foreign
qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competences Required:
Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and
teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical
knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to
work under supervision as an efficient team member. Good communication,
leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability to manage patients
independently, diligently, responsibility and engagement when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and priorities
within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, working within a team, self-
confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationships.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that are consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Sound clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Ability to deal with all
medical emergencies. Knowledge of ethical medical practice. Assist with
clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Providing support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 34/117 : ASSISTANT MANAGER: PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES REF NO:
MPDOH/SEPT/25/376
SALARY : R1 093 611 - R1 265 916 per annum
CENTRE : Pharmaceutical Depot, Middelburg
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC as a
Pharmacist (2025). Minimum of five (5) years’ appropriate experience after
registration as a Pharmacist with the SAPC. Good communication,
interpersonal and computer skills (MS Word and Excel). Ability to work in a
team. Good understanding of the National Drug Policy and Good Pharmacy
Practice. Sound knowledge of the Pharmacy Act and the Medicine and Related
Substance Control Act. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Supply chain Management of pharmaceutical and medical devices. Authorize
purchase orders according to SCM delegation. Serve as a finance committee
member and advise on technical aspects. Monitor the receiving of purchased
goods and confirm that goods have been received and can be paid for (sign
completion certificate). Monitor stock upliftment and ensure proper credit
allocation by the supplier/s. Manage and monitor the transfer of stock from
receiving to the warehouse and from the warehouse to receiving
(upliftment/recalls and stock of poor quality/sub-standard). Monitor and
manage donation stock received and issued to facilities. Monitor compile and
submit reports of obsolete (expired and damaged) and redundant stock.
Monitor, manage, compile and submit reports on the shelf life of stock in the
warehouse to prevent stock loss due to expiry. Monitor and confirm stock
issued to facilities (sign completion certificate for the service rendered by the
service provider). Assist with the processes of stock take. Perform quality
assurance activities in the areas of responsibility. Maintain and uphold good
warehousing practice standards and Good Pharmacy Practice standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
86
POST 34/118 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/SEPT/25/377
SALARY : R1 001 349 - R1 078 116 per annum
CENTRE : Mapulaneng Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner (2025) (Independent Practice). NB: The appointed Medical Officer
must be able to work shifts. A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge
of current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: No experience required after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year
relevant experience after registration with a recognised Foreign Health
Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent
Practice) for foreign qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and
Competences Required: Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary
management and teamwork and experience in the respective medical
discipline. Sound clinical knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical
domains. The ability to work under supervision as an efficient team member.
Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability
to manage patients independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when
necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and
priorities within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the
department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team,
self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Sound clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Ability to deal with all
medical emergencies. Knowledge of ethical medical practice. Assist with
clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 34/119 : PHARMACY SUPERVISOR GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/SEPT/25/378
SALARY : R1 001 349 - R1 062 183 per annum
CENTRE : Pharmaceutical Depot, Middelburg
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma Pharm/ BSc. Pharm/ B. Pharm.
Current registration with South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) (2025).
Minimum of seven (7) years’ appropriate experience after registration as a
Pharmacist with SAPC. Good communication, interpersonal and computer
skills (MS Word and Excel). Ability to work in a team. Good understanding of
the National Drug Policy and Good Pharmacy Practice. Sound knowledge of
the Pharmacy Act and the Medicine and Related Substance Control Act. A valid
code B driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Implement and monitor the procurement of medicines and medical devices
against the approved demand plan and stock levels. Authorize purchase orders
generated as per the SCM delegation. Monitor the receiving of purchased
goods and confirm that goods have been received and can be paid for (sign
completion certificate). Monitor and manage returns by facilities. Compile and
submit reports. Monitor stock upliftment and ensure proper credit allocation by
the supplier/s. Coordinate the transfer of stock from receiving to the warehouse
and from the warehouse to receiving. Monitor upliftment and batch recalls and
stock of poor quality or standard. Compile and submit reports of obsolete
(expired and damaged) and redundant stock. Monitor receipt of all stock
received on donation. Confirm stock issued to facilities (sign completion
87
certificate for the service rendered by the service provider). Compile stock
reports and analyse these reports. Capture receipt transactions on stock
management system. Attend Bid Evaluation and/or Bid Specific Committee
meetings. Perform quality assurance activities in the area of responsibility.
Maintain and uphold good warehousing practice standards and Good
Pharmacy Practice standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 34/120 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SALARY ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
MPDOH/SEPT/25/379
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7)
as recognized by SAQA in Internal Audit / Finance / Accounting / Financial /
Human Resource Management, Public Administration and Public Management
At least a minimum of three (3) years’ experience at management level (ASD).
Extensive knowledge of PERSAL and at least must have four PERSAL
courses. Knowledge and understanding of the Public Sector, Financial
Administration relating to the listed duties and the provisions of the PFMA and
Treasury Regulation. Knowledge of costing of Compensation of Employee
budget, PFMA, Treasury Regulation and other prescripts related to payroll.
Ability to develop and apply policies. Computer literacy. Planning, organising,
communication (verbal and written), numeracy and accuracy skills. People
Management and Leadership skills. A good understanding of BAS, PERSAL
and other Computer Systems. The incumbent must have advanced Microsoft
application skills.
DUTIES : Manage the salaries sub-directorate. Clearing of salary related accounts.
Processing payments of salaries, allowances and deductions. Approve and
authorise maintenance orders, SARS garnishee and uploading garnishee
orders from PERSAL. Uploading orders to Q-Link. Manage clearing of
suspense accounts and refunding employees. Monitor filing of all salary
documents. Tax reconciliations. Assist districts who need guidance regarding
salary issues. Provide inputs to policies and strategies aimed at improving
service delivery. BAS and PERSAL reconciliation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 34/121 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SECURITY MANAGEMENT REF NO:
MPDOH/SEPT/25/380
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7)
in Security Management / Policing as recognized by SAQA. At least a minimum
of three (3) experience at management level (ASD) in Security Management /
Policing. Security Manager Course offered by SSA, vetting course,
SAMTRACK will be an added advantage. Must be registered with PSIRA
Grade A. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Manage all aspects of Security: (Security Administration, Physical, Information,
Personnel, ICT) in line with MISS and MPSS. Develop security policies,
Security Plan and Standard Operating Procedures (SOP). Provide guidance
and leadership to subordinates at the provincial and district offices. Render
advice on security matters and keep track of the developments in the security
field for the purpose of reviewing security measures within the Department.
Develop a plan and conduct physical security appraisals/assessments and
ensure proper implementation of recommendations in consultation with
relevant authorities. Develop a departmental vetting strategy and the vetting of
personnel. Report/liaise with SAPS and SSA all incidents or suspected
88
incidents of security breaches and leakages of sensitive information for
investigation. Develop departmental security awareness plan. Conduct Threat
Risk Assessment (TRA). Liaise with SAPS on issues involving criminal
activities within the department. Implement and monitor policy procedures and
code of ethics with respect to departmental security policy. Create, develop,
and maintain a security training capacity for the department and conduct
security training sessions for staff. Advise management about the security
implications of management decisions. To manage/monitor the performance of
Security service providers in terms of the SLA. To make necessary security
arrangements for departmental functions with all security stakeholders. Advice
on adherence to security measures and procedures and corrective measures
in case of non-compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 34/122 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (PB-B4): MOTHER, CHILD, WOMEN,
YOUTH AND HEALTH (MCWYH) REF NO: MPDOH/SET/25/381
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R755 355 - R863 667 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala District Office, Emalahleni (Witbank)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2025). A post-basic nursing qualification, with
a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in Paediatric / Child
Care / PHC / Advanced Midwifery. A minimum of ten (10) years appropriate /
recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the SANC in general nursing. At least six (6) years of the period referred
to above must be appropriate / recognisable experience in the Specific
Specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant
specialty. At least three (3) years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate / recognisable experience at management level. The ability to
coordinate multi-disciplinary and sectoral activities. Knowledge and
understanding of the District Health System, including District Hospitals, and
Community Based Health Services. Good knowledge of policies on public
health services and communicable disease strategies. Knowledge and
experience of financial and human resource management applicable to the
public service. Knowledge and understanding of the department of health
Mpumalanga Comprehensive Service Plan. Computer literacy (word, excel,
PowerPoint, Microsoft teams: zoom). Must be proactive, innovative and an
independent team leader. Able to participate in continuous professional
development activities. Skills: Strong analytical skills and extensive experience
in Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) of Programs. Report writing, good
communication skills (Verbal and written). Program and project management
skills. Financial management skills. Change and knowledge management
skills. Problem-solving and analysis skills. People management and
empowerment. Contract management skills. Able to work independently and
under pressure. Ability to work within a multidisciplinary team to ensure holistic
care. Understanding legislative frameworks and related policies in the health
public sector and other prescripts. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : To coordinate and support the implementation of Mother, Child, Women, Youth
and Health (MCWYH) Programmes. Coordinate and facilitate the
implementation of Maternal and Child Health Programmes. Coordinate and
facilitate the implementation of the Integrated Nutrition Programme. Ensure the
implementation of national and provincial policies. Facilitate the provision of
adequate woman, and youth health care services. Facilitate the provision of
adequate and safe maternal and child health care services. Facilitate the
improvement of standards of health care for women and youth. Facilitate the
improvement of standards of health care for maternal and child health. Render
advice and technical support services to the district. Monitor and evaluate the
impact of implementation of policies and guidelines. Coordinate the
implementation of National and Provincial INP policies and guidelines. Plan
and coordinate INP Services. Monitor and evaluate INP Services. Coordinate
the implementation of poverty alleviation projects.
89
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 34/123 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (PN-B4): PHC REF NO:
MPDOH/SEPT/25/382
SALARY : R755 355 – R863 667 per annum
CENTRE : Nkomazi Sub-district (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Nursing Council in Terms of Government Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma/
Degree in Nursing) that allows registration with the 'South African Nursing
Council' (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and Midwifery plus a post basic
nursing qualification, with duration of at least one (01) year accredited with the
SANC in above mentioned specialties in nursing. A Diploma in Clinical Nursing
Assessment, treatment and Care or Community Health Nursing Science. A
minimum of ten (10) years of appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing (2025).
At least six (6) years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/
recognisable experience in the relevant specialty after obtaining the 1-year
post-basic qualification in the specific specialty. At least three (3) years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/ recognisable experience at
management level. Experience and Knowledge of the District Health System.
Must have understanding of principles of Primary Health Care Re-engineering.
Demonstrate an in depth understanding of Nursing legislation and related legal
and ethical nursing practices and how these impacts on service delivery. A valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Supervise and support allocated PHC facilities in line with the PHC Supervision
Policy. Conduct monthly red flags and regular reviews. Demonstrate
understanding of the District Health Information System (DHIS). Form part of
the quarterly programme in-depth reviews together with respective Programme
Co-ordinators and form part of the Sub-district and District review session to
monitor progress on set targets according to the District Health Plan (DHP).
Ensure that PHC facilities that she/he is responsible for are compliant with the
National Core Norms and Standards. Ascertain smooth implementation of the
referral system and address constraints related to continuity of care. Support
initiatives of the three streams of PHC Re-engineering. Implement the
Performance Management and Development System (PMDS) with
Operational Managers of PHC facilities that she/he is responsible for.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 34/124 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER (PN-A5): GENERAL REF NO:
MPDOH/SEPT/25/383
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R549 192 - R629 121 per annum
CENTRE : Standerton Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Nursing Council in Terms of Government Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of seven (7) years of
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing (2025). A Diploma /
Degree in Nursing Administration and Management will be an added
advantage. Knowledge/skills: Basic computer literacy, strong Leadership,
Good communication and Sound Interpersonal skills. Ability to work under
pressure, manage own time, function as an effective leader of the nursing
team. Implement and manage change. Willingness to work shifts and standby
in accordance with the requirements of the unit and nursing services. Report
writing.
90
DUTIES : The candidate will be responsible for Planning, Organizing, Managing, and
coordinating as well as maintaining optimal Nursing Services as an Operational
Manager in General Ward. Develop / establish and maintain constructive
working relationships with Nursing and stakeholders (i.e. inter- Professional,
inter–sectoral and multi – disciplinary team workers). Participate in the
analysis, formulation, and implementation of nursing guidelines, practices,
Standards, and procedures. Effectively manage the utilization of Human,
Financial and Physical resources. Maintain professional Growth / Ethical
standards and self-development. Deliver a supportive service to the Nursing
Service and the institution by taking overall supervision after hours and on
weekends. Ensure implementation of Norms and Standards and Ideal Hospital
Framework and develop Quality Improvement Plans. Manage Performance
and Development of staff as well as participating in the Managers scheduled
meetings. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and other labour related
issues in terms of laid down policies or procedures. Manage data in the unit
and ensure submission to facility information office. Identity develops and
control Risk Management Systems within the unit. Provide safe therapeutic
environment as laid by Nursing Acts, Occupational Health and safety Acts and
all the applicable prescripts. Implementation and management of Infection
Prevention and Control protocols. Uphold the Batho Pele and Patients Right
Principles.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 34/125 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
MPDOH/SEP/25/384
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Nkangala District Office, Emalahleni (Witbank)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Supply
Chain Management / Financial Accounting / Cost Accounting / Purchasing /
Accounting / Finance / Logistics / Economics / Internal Audit as recognized by
SAQA. At least a minimum of three (3) years’ experience at supervisory /
managerial (Level 7/8) within the Finance Environment. Knowledge: Supply
Chain Framework. Preferential Procurement Policy Framework. Departmental
policies and procedures. Project Management. General management.
Strategic management. PFMA. PPPPFA. Treasury Regulations. Experience in
Acquisition of goods and services procurement of goods, Logistics, fleet
management, demand and contract management. Computer literacy. Skills:
Leadership. Negotiating. Facilitation Computer literacy. Presentation.
Innovative. Analytical. Verbal and written communication, presentation skills,
management skills, good communication skill and excellent interpersonal
relations. Experience on government systems (BAS &LOGIS), knowledge of
financial prescripts. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Implementation of Asset, Acquisition, procurement, Logistics, demand,
contract and fleet management policies and procedures of the department.
Oversee, coordinate, and advise on the process of drafting specifications/terms
of reference and special conditions of contract; compile a procurement plan.
Compile monthly SCM reports. Oversee the utilization of the central supplier
Database in the bid/quotation process. Control and oversee a compliant
execution of the bid/quotation processes. Oversee management of fleet and
assets. Administer demand management plans for all sub units and manage
inventory. Oversee management of departmental, provincial interdepartmental
and national contracts. Compile operational plan for the unit. Identify and
mitigate risk within the unit providing training to officials on new developments
and SCM processes and policies. Management of Human Resources in the
unit including performance assessment of the officials in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
91
POST 34/126 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SECURITY MANAGEMENT REF NO:
MPDOH/SEPT/25/385
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Mapulaneng Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) years’ functional experience or
Diploma / Degree in Safety Management or Security Management in Security
Management Services. Knowledge: Promotion of Access to Information Act,
Access to Public Premises and Vehicle Act, Knowledge of Physical security,
Personnel and Document security, Communication security, IT Security,
Security investigation. Monitoring of Service Level Agreement with contracted
private companies. Management Skills: Leadership Skills, Good written and
verbal communication skills, Conflict management skills, Interpersonal
relations skills, Investigative analysis skills.
DUTIES : To render security management services, To implement and monitor policies,
System and processes pertaining to security management, Implement and
monitor information technology policies based on MISS, Facilitate staff vetting
process, To monitor contracts for security services delivered by external
service providers, Facilitate the provision of security services to events, To
manage security investigations and reporting, Monitor and implement audit
plans and ensure quality response thereof, Provide reports to the accounting.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 34/127 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: AUXILIARY SERVICES REF NO:
MPDOH/SEPT/25/386
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Tonga Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) years’ experience in Auxiliary
Services or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public Administration /
Management. Knowledge of PFMA, Public Service Act, regulations and other
prescripts. Knowledge of office management. Computer literacy or Certificate
with practical knowledge of Microsoft programs (Word, Excel, PowerPoint and
Internet). Must possess the ability to plan, organize, supervise, inspect and
evaluate work of subordinates. Knowledge of OHS and infection Control. Valid
driver’s licence is essential. Good communication skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : Implement policies and processes on office support services. Facilitate and
render general office support services (Porter, Mortuary, Switchboard services,
Security services and Messenger Services). Ensure compliance with National
Core Standards and ideal assessment tools. Leave matters and overtime
management. Provide advice to floor supervisors. Ensure security services are
in their post 24/7, and the Control Room is always active. Make rounds and
monitor security services, mortuary, porter, switchboard and messenger
services are performing the required duties and meeting deadlines. Take
responsibility for movement or transfer of corpses from various referral facilities
in collaboration with the wards and your supervisor. Be actively involved in
budgeting and budgetary control for these units. Ensure saving measures are
put in place. Apply disciplinary measures when necessary. Order, receive and
distribute materials and equipment for the units under your control. Manage
performance and development of staff. Attend meetings and give feedback.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 34/128 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): GENERAL NURSING:
MALARIA PROGRAMME REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/25/388 (X2 POSTS)
One Year Eight Months Contract
SALARY : R324 384 – R382 107 per annum
CENTRE : Bushbuckridge and Nkomazi (Ehlanzeni District)
92
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus Basic qualification accredited
with the SANC in terms of Government Notice (I.E. Diploma/ Degree in General
Nursing) equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse (2025). Grade 1: A minimum of 0-10 years appropriate /
recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function independently and to
prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and
decision-making skills. Knowledge of Public Service Policies, Acts and
regulations, Knowledge of SANC rules and regulations, Knowledge of the
District Health Care system and referral pathways. Good communication.
Leadership, interpersonal and decision-making and problem-solving skills.
Knowledge of Code of Conduct, Labour Relations, Conflict management and
negotiation skills, Ability to function well within a team, Skills in organizing,
planning and supervising, Knowledge of Batho Pele principles and patients’
rights charter. Knowledge of Labor relations and handling grievances and
disciplinary procedures, Clear understanding of malaria management,
Understanding clinical, treatment guidelines and protocols. Good knowledge of
Malaria Elimination strategies. Valid code 10 (C1) drivers’ license (Please
attach copy), Experience in malaria control will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Plan and manage malaria onsite malaria testing and treatment activities.
Conduct clinical assessment of signs and symptoms of Malaria. Screening and
Diagnoses. Notification of all positive cases. Administration of ACT to positive
clients. Conduct follow-up visits to treat patients. Manage and monitor Human
Resources activities within the malaria sector, Conduct Health Education and
training within the sector’s localities and facilities. Perform a clinical nursing
practice in accordance with the scope of practice and nursing standards.
Promote quality of nursing care as directed by the professional scope of
practice and standards. Work as part of the malaria multi-disciplinary team to
ensure good malaria management. Display a concern for patients, promoting
and advocating proper treatment and care including awareness and
willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements and expectations (Batho
Pele). Monitor & manage malaria data within scope of duties. Assist with data
quality checks.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
93
ANNEXURE N
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that post 32/154: EMS Shift Leader Grade 3 to 6 (X4
Posts) Chief Directorate: Emergency, Clinical and Support Services Salary:
Grade 3: R335 226 per annum, Grade 4: R397 308 per annum ,Grade 5: R480
108 per annum, Grade 6: R589 443 per annum, Centre: Emergency Medical
Services, Metropole and Rural Districts advertised in the Public Service
Vacancy 32 dated 05 September 2025, has been cancelled.
OTHER POSTS
POST 34/129 : MEDICAL SUB-SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (MEDICINE: ALLERGOLOGY)
Contract until 31 August 2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 553 670 per annum
Grade 2: R1 773 222 per annum
Grade 3: R1 936 806 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Sub-Specialist in Allergology. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Sub-Specialist in Allergology.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Sub-Specialist in Allergology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Sub-Specialist in Allergology after registration with the
HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a
foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Sub-Specialist in Allergology. Grade
3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Sub-Specialist in
Allergology after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical
Sub-Specialist in Allergology. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Clinical Skills
required of an Allergist (e.g. Assessment, diagnosis and treatment of
outpatients. Communication including report generation, letter writing,
consultation in OPD setting. FCP (SA). Certificate of Allergy from the Colleges
of Medicine South Africa.
DUTIES : Research. Teaching and Training/Supervision of Junior Staff. Clinical Service
provision at Clinic level – general allergy.
ENQUIRIES : Prof JG Peter Tel No: (021) 406-6889 or Email: jonny.peter@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Please ensure that you attach an
updated CV. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within
Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of three months from the date of the
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
94
POST 34/130 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (SUB-SPECIALTY: ADULT
NEPHROLOGY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 553 670 per annum
Grade 2: R1 773 222 per annum
Grade 3: R1 936 806 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Adult Nephrology. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Adult Nephrology. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Adult Nephrology. Grade
2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of foreign qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in Adult
Nephrology. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as
Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employee) as a
Medical Specialist in Adult Nephrology. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to work after hours. The position will
be full- time (40 hours per week). Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Comprehensive clinical knowledge of general nephrology, acute and chronic
dialysis (haemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis), and renal transplantation.
Proven ability and experience in performing relevant procedures (e.g., native
and transplant renal biopsies, insertion of temporary and tunnelled dialysis
catheters). Demonstrable experience in undergraduate and postgraduate
teaching and supervision. A proven record of research output (e.g.,
publications in peer-reviewed journals) and the ability to independently conduct
and supervise research projects. Strong leadership and management skills
with the ability to work effectively within a multidisciplinary team. Excellent
communication (verbal and written) and interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : To render a comprehensive tertiary clinical service in nephrology at Tygerberg
Hospital and its satellite dialysis units, that includes participating in the 24-hour
emergency service. To teach medical students and junior doctors. Must
conduct and supervise research independently within nephrology. To do such
administration and management as may be necessary to maintain the efficient
running of the service. Participating fully in all activities of the division. Clinical
Service: Provide a comprehensive, evidence-based specialist clinical service
to nephrology patients at Tygerberg Hospital and its associated satellite and
drainage area facilities. This includes inpatient, outpatient, dialysis, and
transplant care. On-Call Participation: Participate fully in the 24-hour on-call
roster for nephrology emergencies. Teaching and Training: Actively participate
in the teaching and training of undergraduate medical students, postgraduate
registrars in internal medicine, and sub-specialist fellows in nephrology.
Research: Initiate, conduct, and supervise research in the field of nephrology,
and contribute to the academic and research profile of the Division.
Management and Administration: Perform administrative duties required for the
efficient functioning of the clinical service. Participate in divisional,
departmental, and hospital meetings and committees. Outreach and
Development: Contribute to the development and support of nephrology
services within the hospital's referral network.
ENQUIRIES : Prof MY Chothia Tel No: (021) 938-9239 or Email: yaziedc@sun.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The medical
sub-specialist (adult nephrology) will function at Tygerberg Hospital and its
primary satellite dialysis units within the Metro East region, as per an agreed
programme. “Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of
the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration as Medical Specialist in Adult Nephrology
95
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/131 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (SUB-SPECIALTY: PAEDIATRIC
CRITICAL CARE)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 553 670 per annum
Grade 2: R1 773 222 per annum
Grade 3: R1 936 806 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Paediatric Critical Care. Registration with Professional
council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Paediatric
Critical Care. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist in Paediatric Critical Care. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
(or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign
qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in Paediatric Critical Care. Grade
3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Paediatric
Critical Care. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid driver’s license.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience working in
Paediatric Critical Care. Appropriate experience in Paediatric Critical Care of
post-cardiac surgery patients. Ability to function independently at a level of a
Specialist in Paediatric Critical Care. Demonstrated interest in Paediatric
Critical Care research. Working with multi-disciplinary teams. Computer
literacy (e.g. Word, Excel, PowerPoint, etc.)
DUTIES : To render a comprehensive clinical service in Paediatric Critical Care. To
provide clinical teaching in Paediatric Critical Care. To engage in Paediatric
Critical Care research. Ecosystem support.
ENQUIRIES : Prof Pierre Goussard Tel No: (021) 938-9220
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
as Medical Specialist in Paediatric Critical Care with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/132 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (RADIOLOGY) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs).
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Radiology. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Radiology. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Radiology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience after
registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Radiology.
Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience after registration with
the HPCSA (Or as recognised foreign Health Professional council in respect of
a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Radiology. Inherent
requirements of the job: Participate in the after-hours call system. Commuted
96
overtime is compulsory. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent team
player. Good clinical expertise in general radiology with a sub-speciality interest
that can be developed. Good record of clinical governance, research, teaching,
and training at undergraduate and postgraduate levels in Diagnostic Radiology.
Excellent managerial, interpersonal, leadership, administrative,
communication, analytical, and problem-solving skills. Ability to supervise
training and mentorship of registrars and junior radiologists.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide supervision of clinical service delivery within
the Radiology Division to ensure excellent clinical services of diagnosis,
investigations, and treatment in inpatient, outpatient and emergency contexts.
Take overall responsibility for the comprehensive Diagnostic Imaging
Radiology service at Groote Schuur Hospital, reporting to the Head of
Department. Responsible for a strong academic program within the wider
Radiology teaching program, including relevant research and continuing
medical education for staff. Liaise and collaborate with all surgical and medical
disciplines to support the delivery of best practices for patient care.
Responsible for corporate governance and management activities, ensuring
quality outputs and optimal use of resources. Communications skills including
report generation, letter writing, consultation, verbal skills, liaison with support
service, nursing and Professions Allied to Medicine. Coordinate and manage
afterhours support for Diagnostic Radiology services. Coordinate and
participate in outreach programs to the facility’s drainage area.
ENQUIRIES : Prof S Moosa Tel No: (021) 404-4184
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Please ensure that you attach an
updated CV. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within
Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of three months from the date of the
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post. Groote Schuur
Hospital has adopted the department’s ecosystem framing of its training
platform. Accordingly, all medical officer appointments may be called upon to
work across this platform and may include rotations at Metro West and Rural
East hospitals. This includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital,
New Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and
George Provincial Hospital.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/133 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (OBSTETRICS AND
GYNAECOLOGY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs).
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Obstetrics and Gynaecology. Registration with
Professional council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Obstetrics and Gynaecology. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Obstetrics and Gynaecology. Grade 2:
A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in
Obstetrics and Gynaecology. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified
97
employee) as a Medical Specialist in Obstetrics and Gynaecology. Inherent
requirements of the job: A Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Participate in
after-hours (commuted overtime) is compulsory. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): The candidate must have an excellent track record of
clinical and training skills. Clinical experience with general and high-risk
obstetrics, general and emergency gynaecology, termination of pregnancy and
ultrasound is required. Ability to achieve and maintain good interpersonal
relations with staff, patients, and their families. Excellent clinical notes and
referral writing skills. Sound verbal and written communication skills as well as
analytical and problem-solving skills. Experience with teamwork, planning,
organizing and coordination of a O&G unit, including clinical and administrative
governance of the unit (personnel and leave management, procurement and
operational statistics). The candidate must have sufficient clinical and
academic skills to handle a large clinical workload. Computer literacy in MS
Word and Excel or similar, including the ability to use online resources relevant
to the discipline (e.g. PubMed).
DUTIES : The main purpose of the job is to strengthen the O&G services at general
specialist level for all women in the district (ecosystem) at either Khayelitsha,
Karl Bremer or Tygerberg hospitals and there referring clinics and midwife
obstetric units. This includes Outpatient, Inpatient, Emergency, Theatre and
Afterhours service (nights, weekends, and public holidays).
ENQUIRIES : Prof S Gebhardt Tel No: (021) 938-4638 or email,
Stefan.Gebhardt@westerncape.gov.za.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Cape Town
Metro East Ecosystem (Karl Bremer, Khayelitsha or Tygerberg Hospital). The
post will either be on the establishment of Khayelitsha Hospital; or Karl Bremer
hospital, or Tygerberg hospital, depending on the availability of posts; and
candidates must be willing to accept a position at any one of these. -
“Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This
concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the first
time for registration as Medical Specialist in Obstetrics and Gynaecology with
the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/134 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (INTERNAL MEDICINE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist Internal Medicine. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Internal Medicine. Grade2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Grade 3: A minimum
of 10 years appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with
the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence, willingness
and ability to travel. It will be expected of the successful candidate to participate
in a system of remunerated commuted overtime within the MetroHealth
Services. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work as a specialist
physician at a Large District Hospital attached to a teaching institution. Ability
98
to work and make clinical decisions independently. Ability to manage a broad
spectrum of medical problems. Good organizational skills and ability to perform
tasks efficiently. Ability to provide leadership and management within the
Department of Medicine. Excellent individual coping and interpersonal skills
and ability to perform well within a multidisciplinary team context. Enthusiasm
to attend and present training and educational courses to broaden clinical and
managerial skills and knowledge. Ability to communicate effectively.
Knowledge and understanding of relevant legislation, hospital procedures and
policies.
DUTIES : Provision of specialist care to outpatients and inpatients (including ICU and
high care). Clinical service leadership and oversight at Victoria hospital. Clinical
link and between the Community Health Centres and Victoria and Groote
Schuur and False Bay. Outreach to western subdistrict. Training and teaching
of students, interns, medical officers and registrars’ Clinical governance and
management for the Department of Internal Medicine including handling
medico-legal enquires.
ENQUIRIES : Dr GL Dunbar Tel No: (021) 799-1211 or email:
Graeme.Dunbar@westerncape.gov.za.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration as
Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for a change in registration status). The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the department, for a period
of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/135 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1773 222 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Urology. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Urology. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Urology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience after
registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Urology.
Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience after registration with
the HPCSA (Or as recognised foreign Health Professional council in respect of
a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Urology. Inherent
requirement of the job: Commuted overtime is compulsory. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Experience in Adult and Paediatric Urology, renal
transplantation, laparoscopic surgery, trauma, endourological and oncological
surgery. Have research experience. Ability to perform urologic surgery at a
tertiary level.
DUTIES : The management of specialist urological patients within the Division of Urology
and at related hospitals to Groote Schuur Hospital. To provide services
(operative and OPD consulting) at Eerste River and Western Cape
Rehabilitation Hospitals. Supervision and performance of major Urology
surgery, Laparoscopic surgery, laparoscopic surgery, trauma, endourological
and oncological surgery. Oversee day surgery, surgical clinics and surgical
emergencies. Organise and contribute to the surgical skills training courses.
99
Contribute to the under and post grad training and research agenda of the
Division.
ENQUIRIES : Prof J Lazarus Tel No: (021) 406-6105
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Groote Schuur
Hospital has adopted the department’s ecosystem framing of its training
platform. Accordingly, all medical officer appointments may be called upon to
work across this platform and may include rotations at Metro West and Rural
East hospitals. This includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital,
New Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and
George Provincial Hospital. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). Please ensure that you attach an updated CV. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/136 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (PLASTIC SURGERY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Plastic Surgery. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Plastic Surgery.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Plastic Surgery. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified
employee) as Medical Specialist in Plastic Surgery. Grade 3: A minimum of 10
years appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the
HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a
foreign qualified employee) as Medical Specialist in Plastic Surgery. Inherent
requirement of the job: Commuted overtime is compulsory. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to work in a team. Ability to communicate effectively
(verbal and written). Ability to initiate research, strong academic record in terms
of teaching and research supported by publications and presentations. Support
to postgraduate and Masters’ students. Commitment to attaining advanced
surgical skills especially in Microsurgery. Computer literacy, the ability to
develop and work with databases. Skills and experience in undergraduate and
postgraduate teaching and training.
DUTIES : Actively participate in all the academic activities of the division including
performing and overseeing research. Assess, investigate and manage patients
referred to the Plastic Surgery service from the Western Cape and beyond.
Assist with cross-cover for the plastic service at Red Cross War Memorial
Children’s Hospital. Train under/post-graduate students, including elective
students, and other allied health personnel. Help manage the out-patient
service for Plastic Surgery. Ensuring, as part of a team, continuous
improvements in the quality, efficiency and outcome of plastic surgery patients.
Assist with leadership and oversight of the day-day running of the Division of
Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery.
ENQUIRIES : Prof S Adams Tel No: (021) 406-6415 or email: saleigh.adams@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
100
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Groote Schuur
Hospital has adopted the department’s ecosystem framing of its training
platform. Accordingly, all registrar appointments may be called upon to work
across this platform and may include rotations at Metro West and Rural East
hospitals. This includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, New
Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and
George Provincial Hospital. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). Please ensure that you attach an updated CV. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/137 : DEPUTY MANAGER NURSING (LEVEL 1 AND 2 HOSPITAL)
(EMERGENCY, ICU, THEATRE AND CSSD)
SALARY : R1 028 091 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Basic R425 qualification (i.e Degree/
diploma in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Registration
with Professional council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/ recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 4 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/
recognisable experience at management level. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver's license. Ability to be on call and availability for
Emergency situations. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strategic nursing
leadership, knowledge, ability to plan and apply management processes for
required outcomes. Clinical governance, knowledge of quality assurance,
infection control and occupational health and safety issues. Corporate
governance, knowledge of Human Resource Management. Good
communication skills. Ability to work on MS packages (Word, Excel and
PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Provide strategic management and leadership within the nursing management
and function as part of the Nursing executive management team of the hospital.
Clinical Governance, manage quality improvement of nursing care. Manage
financial resources assets and consumable resources for the designated
areas. Manage Human Resources in the relevant designated areas. Manage
Nursing research and both professional and nursing practice development.
Establish, maintain and participate in the inter-professional and multi-
disciplinary teamwork that promotes efficient and effective care.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Dubase Tel No: (021) 938-4000
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/ competency assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/138 : REGISTRAR (PSYCHIATRY) (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(4-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital (X2 Posts)
Tygerberg Hospital (X1 Post)
(Lentegeur Hospital (X1 Post)
101
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid
(code B/EB) driver’s licence. It will be expected of the successful candidate to
participate in a system of remunerated commuted overtime. It will be expected
of the successful candidate to perform emergency and after-hour call cover.
Completed FC Psych Part I Colleges of Medicine South Africa qualification.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in Psychiatry with
appropriate supervised medical officer experience. Registrars will be appointed
in a specific training complex but is required to work across the platform.
Excellent clinical assessment and management skills. Good leadership and
interpersonal skills. Knowledge and practical skills in psychiatry.
Communication skills.
DUTIES : Assisting with the training of interns, medical students, nursing staff and
multidisciplinary team members. Learning critical skills required of a psychiatric
specialist. Involvement in research/audits relating to Psychiatry. Maintaining
accurate and detailed patient records and adhering to the medicolegal
requirement of the Mental Health Care Act and other relevant South African
legislation. Provision of safe and comprehensive psychiatric care to inpatients
and outpatients at Tygerberg Hospital, Stikland Hospital, Lentegeur Hospital
and associated training sites. Provision of clinical support to other medical and
surgical disciplines at Tygerberg Hospital. Performing onsite after-hours duties
as per call roster. Supervision and support of medical interns and medical
officers providing psychiatric care on the service platform. Attending teaching
program activities, tutorials and assessments as part of the registrar training
program at the designated university as required to achieve the FCPsych and
MMed (Psych) qualifications.
ENQUIRIES : Prof L Koen Tel No: (021) 940 8718 / liezle.koen@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
have to undergo profiling assessments prior to appointment. Consideration will
be given to existing employees who are already on higher salary packages to
retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled to
receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be for a maximum
contract period of 4 years. Employees in service who opt to continue with their
pension benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with the applicable
University in the Western Cape according to the requirements for the discipline
in the yearbook and guidelines. Should registration with the HEI as a student
be discontinued for any reason the appointment of Registrar also discontinues.
Applicants must indicate whether they have bursary obligations. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This
concession is only applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time
for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for a change in registration status). Short listed
candidates will be subjected to a written and/or oral assessment. No payment
of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of applicants will
be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post. Each registrar will be appointed in a specific
training complex and will be expected to rotate through the various institutions
in the complex. It may become necessary to second/transfer staff to another
hospital/institution during their period of training, in which case affected staff
will be consulted prior to any decision being implemented.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
102
POST 34/139 : REGISTRAR (OCCUPATIONAL MEDICINE)
(4-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with Professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirements of the job:
Commuted overtime is compulsory. Emergency and after hour call cover.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduate students with the
University of Cape Town. Each Registrar will be working from Red Cross War
Memorial Children's Hospital and Groote Schuur Hospital but will be required
to work across the platform. Completion of FCA (SA) Part 1. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Effective leadership & interpersonal skills. Appropriate and
sufficient clinical experience since obtaining the degree of MBChB and after
completion of internal medicine rotations. Knowledge, expertise and
experience with regards to providing medical services in assessment,
diagnosis and treatment of inpatients and outpatients. Previous research
experience and publication is recommended. Completion of community service
in Internal Medicine.
DUTIES : Clinical Service Provision. Participate in the teaching programme. Research
and professional development (including completion of MMED). Effective
Clinical Administration in patient records and patients reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Benting Tel No: (021) 404-6367
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates will
have to undergo profiling assessments prior to appointment. Consideration will
begiven to existing employees who are already on higher salary packages to
retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled to
receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be for a maximum
contract period of 4/5 years. Employees in service who opt to continue with
their pension benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion
of their registrars should they not be successful for advertised Specialist
positions. Should registration with the HEI as student be discontinued for any
reason the appointment of Registrar also discontinues. Applicants must
indicate whether they have bursary obligations. Groote Schuur Hospital has
adopted the department’s ecosystem framing of its training platform.
Accordingly, all registrar appointments maybe called upon to work across this
platform and may include rotations at Metro West and Rural East hospitals.
This includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, New Somerset
Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and George
Provincial Hospital. Preference will be given to SA citizens/permanent
residents with a valid identity document. No payment of any kind is required
when applying for this post. “Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of
the interview. This concession is only applicable to health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for a change in registration
status). Please ensure that you attach an updated CV. The pool of applications
will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/140 : MEDICAL OFFICER: GRADE 1 TO 3 (OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH CLINIC)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
103
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with Professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 3: A minimum of 10
years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Appropriate and sufficient clinical experience since obtaining the degree of
MBChB. Knowledge, expertise and experience with regards to providing
medical care to employees in a clinical setting.
DUTIES : Primary acute and chronic care to non-medical aid staff. Primary acute care to
medical aid staff. Primary acute care for children of GSH creche. Provide
support for outbreaks. Identify trends and implement interventions. Diabetic
care, weight management, hypertensive care, smoking cessation. Provide
referral letters for family planning for staff. Provide support to OHC for IOD
cases. Conduct side room tests including basic vitals and bloods.
ENQUIRIES : Dr F Conrad Tel No: (021 404-2205
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Please ensure
that you attach an updated CV. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of three months from the date of
the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/141 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (SURGERY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with Professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
104
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: A Valid
driver’s licence. Perform commuted overtime within the department of surgery.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills. Ability to work in
a team and with all levels of staff. Experience working within a surgical
department of a district-/secondary-/tertiary-level hospital. Interest in
developing an academic career and involvement in research activities.
Completion of Basic Life Support, FCS primary examination, Advance Trauma
Life Support and Basic Surgical Skills courses.
DUTIES : To deliver safe, cost-effective and high-quality surgical care at all times and
promote comprehensive peri-operative care of patients in the discipline of
general surgery. This would include the following roles: Pre-operative
assessment and resuscitation of surgical patients (including gynaecology,
urology & ENT) presenting to the EC and planning appropriate operative
management with guidance & supervision from senior specialists. Involvement
(supervised) in daily ward rounds, outpatient clinics & elective theatre lists
(including urology & ENT cases). -Post-operative inpatient assessment & care,
with appropriate investigation & management of possible complications and
common surgical emergencies. Teaching and training of community service
medical officers, interns, students and nurses providing an appropriate level of
care and knowledge. Planning & triaging (supervised) of efficient emergency &
elective theatre lists, involving communication and discussion with anaesthetic
& theatre nursing staff. Completion of medicolegal documents. Participation in
research, audits and quality improvement programs.
ENQUIRIES : Dr J. Plaskett Tel No: (021) 799-1200, email:
Jeremy.Plaskett@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the department, for a period of three months
from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/142 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (ORTHOPAEDICS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with Professional council: Registration with
the HCPSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a Medical
105
Practitioner after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect
of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience after
registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Willingness to work overtime when required. Willingness to work at the relevant
institutions on the rotation platform. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Appropriate experience in providing Orthopeadic Surgical Services. Ability to
function in a team under pressure in high volume, high stress environment.
Administrative and IT Skills. Research methodology.
DUTIES : Clinical Service: Patient care: in-patient and outpatient management of
orthopedic patients. Clinical Service: Operative (surgical) care of orthopedic
patients, both elective and emergencies. Clinical governance, for example
ensuring rational and cost-effective use of resources such as laboratory
investigations, medications, consumables and equipment. Teaching: both
formal and informal teaching to students. Innovation and Research within the
orthopedic team. Leadership within the orthopedic and hospital team.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Mears Tel No: (021) 402-6197 or email:
Stewart.Mears@westercape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. This position is
a rotating medical officer position across the platform: Groote Schuur (ICU),
Victoria, New Somerset, Mitchell’s Plain, and Red Cross Children’s Hospitals.
No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.”
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/143 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (OBSTETRICS AND GYNAECOLOGY) (X6
POSTS)
(5 Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with Professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirements of the job:
Participation in commuted overtime (after-hours emergency service) is
compulsory. Valid driver’s license. Registrars can be rotated through the
related departments at various hospitals, including hospitals served in their
specific outreach programmes, e.g. Paarl and Worcester Regional hospital as
well as Khayelitsha, Helderberg, Eerste Rivier and Karl Bremer district
hospitals; as required by the training program. Candidates must be willing to
participate in the Termination of Pregnancy services according to the relevant
act. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate post-community service
experience in obstetrics and gynaecology (under onsite supervision of a
registered obstetrician gynaecologist). Clinical experience with adult as well as
neonatal intubation and resuscitation is required. Applicants must have a valid
CMSA (College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists) FCOG part 1. Diploma in
obstetrics, ultrasound training and additional obstetrics/gynaecology
experience. Ability to do a Caesarean section independently and to work in a
professional team. Computer literacy in MS Word and Excel or similar,
106
including the ability to use online resources relevant to the discipline. Auxiliary
courses relevant to the field of Obstetrics and Gynaecology (e.g. ultrasound,
ACLS, ESMOE, ANLS, surgical skills, basic laparoscopy etc). A logbook
indicating at least 250 Caesarean sections performed as main operator. CMSA
FCOG part 1 (valid for at least 5 years after entry into the post). Basic obstetric
ultrasound certification (or a letter from a specialist indicating competence in
ultrasound, accompanied by a logbook of cases done).
DUTIES : Provide a high-quality clinical service to patients and their families. Supervision
of junior medical staff to ensure quality of care and good clinical outcomes.
Informal teaching and training of junior staff in the course of clinical work.
Teaching (formal and informal) of undergraduate medical students. Achieve
success in the FCOG intermediary exam after 18 months and FCOG part II
exam of the CMSA prior to the end of the five-year contract. Graduation with
an MMed (O&G) degree prior to the end of the five-year contract after
completion of the required research project.
ENQUIRIES : Prof GS Gebhardt Tel No: (021) 938-4638, email: (gsgeb@sun.ac.za) or
jeban@sun.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Appointment as
Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 5 years. It may become
necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during their
period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to any
decision being implemented. Registrars will function across health facilities, as
per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a student be
discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Registrar also discontinues.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be
on contract. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension
benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions.
The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this
regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will
be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch
University according to the yearbook and guidelines. “Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for a change in
registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/144 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (FAMILY)
Cape Winelands Health District
(4-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Cape Winelands Health District based at Robertson Hospital Langeberg Sub-
district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with Professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work overtime. Commuted overtime is compulsory. A valid
Driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (e.g., MS
Word, Excel, PowerPoint and internet research). Excellent verbal and written
communication skills.
107
DUTIES : Clinical service provision. Participate in the Teaching program. Research and
Professional Development (incl. completion of MMED). Effective Clinical
Administration in patient records and patient reports.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. L Rossouw via Liezel.Rossouw@westerncape.gov.za Nicole Cordon-
Thomas via nicolec@sun.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Appointment
as Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 4 years. It may become
necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during their
period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to any
decision being implemented. Registrars will function across health facilities, as
per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a student be
discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Registrar also discontinues.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be
on contract. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension
benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions.
The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this
regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will
be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch
University according to the yearbook and guidelines. “Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for a change in
registration status)”. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Robertson Hospital, for a period of three months from the date of the
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/145 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (UROLOGY)
(5-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council (HPCSA) as Medical
Practitioner. Registration with Professional council: Registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirement of the job: Commuted
overtime is compulsory. Emergency and after-hours call cover. Registrars may
be required to work across the training platform on request. Successful
completion of FCS (SA) part 1 and part 2 examinations. Registration for MMed
(Urology) degree at University of Stellenbosch (SU) and completion of 2
internal examinations, FC(Urol) final examination and research projects within
5 years. Pre-graduate MBChB student teaching. A valid (code B/EB) driver’s
license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): FCS part 1 and experience in
research/publications. Appropriate experience in general surgery and urology
and an accredited Intensive Care Unit. Ability to render high quality surgical
management for Urology patients in tertiary and secondary level. Ability to
render high quality inpatient and outpatient management of urology patients.
Ability to initiate own research project. Proven prior involvement with research
(e.g. publications as primary author or co-author). Ability to render high quality
teaching to medical officers, interns and medical students. Strong ethical
principles and relevant clinical and counselling skills. Computer literacy.
108
Leadership-, interpersonal- and organisational skills. Ability to effectively
function as part of a team in a high-pressure environment.
DUTIES : Provision of clinical service delivery at registrar level across the full spectrum
of urological surgery. The registrar will spend the majority daytime working
hours at various Tygerberg Hospital, but some clinical duties will be at other
hospitals in the referral area. Active participation in the postgraduate and
undergraduate academic programmes of the Urology Department at Tygerberg
Hospital, this includes daily teaching of undergraduate medical students.
Effective management of inpatients and outpatients in the urology department.
Conduct research projects pertinent to urology and in line with MMed (Urology)
degree requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Prof A van der Merwe Tel No: (021) 938-9094
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Appointment as
Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 5 years. It may become
necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during their
period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to any
decision being implemented. Registrars will function across health facilities, as
per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a student be
discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Registrar also discontinues.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be
on contract. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension
benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions.
The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this
regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will
be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch
University according to the yearbook and guidelines. -“Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for a change in
registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/146 : PHARMACY SUPERVISOR GRADE 1
Chief Directorate: Emergency & Clinical Services Support
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs).
CENTRE : Medicine Management, Bloods and Labs (on the premises of Karl Bremer
Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Basic qualification accredited with the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC
as a Pharmacist. Registration with Professional council: Current registration
with the SAPC as Pharmacist. Experience: A minimum of 3 years appropriate
experience after registration as a Pharmacist with the South African Pharmacy
Council (SAPC). Inherent requirements of the job: Ability to work accurately
under pressure and maintain a high standard of professionalism. Valid drivers’
licence. Willingness to travel when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Appropriate knowledge of National and Provincial Policies and the Pharmacy
Act 53 of 1974. Sound Management, Communication and conflict handling
skills. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, Power-point and Outlook).
DUTIES : To manage and ensure the comprehensive, cost effective and efficient
management of receipt, storage and distribution of pharmaceuticals for
Western Cape Government: Department of Health & Wellness. To lead the
warehouse team and provide stewardship for change management required
109
within CMD. To monitor the workflow process and manage all related
expenditure in the warehouse. To ensure compliance to legislative
requirements and facilitate learning in the warehouse. To ensure adherence to
People Management prescripts and ensure a people centric workspace in the
warehouse.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. H Moeng Tel No: (021) 483-8408
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants may be considered for other vacant Pharmacy Supervisor posts
within the Chief Director Emergency & Clinical Support Services, for a period
of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post. Candidates may undergo a competency-based assessment and will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/147 : DENTIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R972 612 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : Nomzamo CDC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Dentist. Registration with Professional council: Registration with the HPCSA as
Dentist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Dentist with the
HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1year relevant experience after
registration as Dentist with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community. Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of 7 years
appropriate experience as Dentist after registration with the HPCSA as a
Dentist in respect of SA qualified employees. Minimum of 8years relevant
experience after registration as Dentist with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade
3: Minimum of 12 years appropriate experience as Dentist after registration
with the HPCSA as a Dentist in respect of SA qualified employees. Minimum
of 13years relevant experience after registration as Dentist with a recognised
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees,
of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South
Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s licence and willingness
to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good verbal and written
communicate skills. Ability to perform in a multi-disciplinary team. Ability to
manage the dental clinic. Ability to maintain good interpersonal relations. Ability
to work under pressure and manage a heavy workload.
DUTIES : Examine and diagnose oral conditions. Treat oral diseases and conditions. Oral
health training. Perform all aspects of oral health, e.g. preventative,
conservative, prosthetics, etc. Manage clinic and staff. Plan and implement
services to the community.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Matiso at (074) 199-8834
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
“Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals
who must apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will
be considered for other similar vacancies within Khayelitsha Eastern Sub
110
Structure, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided
that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/148 : PSYCHOLOGIST GRADE 1 TO 3
West Coast District Office
SALARY : Grade 1: R872 709 per annum
Grade 1: R1 014 705 per annum
Grade 3: R1 174 848 per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.
CENTRE : Malmesbury CDC, Swartland Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Psychologist in Clinical Psychology. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Clinical Psychologist. Experience. Grade 1:
None after registration as with the HPCSA as a Psychologist in respect of RSA
qualified employees. 1 Year relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as a Psychologist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: A minimum of 8 years relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as Psychologist in respect of RSA qualified employees. Minimum of 9
years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 16
years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in
respect of RSA qualified employees. A minimum of 17 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB/) driver’s licence and willingness to work at the clinics and hospital
in the Swartland Sub-district. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
function/make decisions independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team.
Excellent clinical skills in terms of consultation. Good communication,
interpersonal relationships, exceptional leadership and conflict resolution skills.
Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook. Knowledge of relevant
legislation and policies of the Department of Health Western Cape.
DUTIES : Developing psychological and counselling services at PHC level with particular
emphasis on the provision of clinical services at designated CDCs and Clinics.
Interventions include evidenced-based short-term and longer-term
psychotherapies, support and containment work, and telehealth services, as
well as liaising with relevant service providers and stakeholders in making
appropriate referrals for the management of patients. Developing and
facilitating referral pathways. Service development includes capacity building
by way of clinical supervision, mentorship and training of psychologists, interns,
students, and staff at district facilities. Edit Library X. The championing of
mental health within the DOH and the development of intersectoral
partnerships with various health department role-players as well as NPOs.
Performing administrative tasks related to clinical work as well as data
collection and line-management. Adhere to Continuous Professional
Development (CPD) requirements as stipulated.
ENQUIRIES : Mr RA Christoffels Tel No: (022) 482 2729
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Swartland Sub-district, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
111
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/149 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY UNIT: PSYCHIATRY)
(WARD 12 & 109) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse with
Psychiatry. A post-basic nursing qualification with duration of at least 1-year,
accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science.
Registration with Professional council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse and Psychiatry. Experience: A minimum of 9 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as mentioned above. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid code (B/EB) drivers’ licence. Willingness to work
shifts, after hours, public holidays, day or night and standby duties.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ensure that clinical nursing practice
rendered by the nursing team and promote quality of nursing care as directed
by the professional scope of practice and standards. Computer literacy in MS
Office package. Demonstrate a good understanding of HR and financial
policies and practices. Knowledge of FBU functions and management (ability
to work collaboratively within FBUs). Appropriate experience working in Acute
Psychiatric Services.
DUTIES : Manage and co-ordinate the implementation of holistic, comprehensive,
specialised nursing care in the Psychiatry complex, in conjunction with team
members, within a professional and legal framework. Ensure the maintenance
of quality care standards in the Psychiatry services. Manage, supervise, guide
staff and keep records and statistics as required. Manage assets,
consumables, and services effectively. Manage and support education, in-
service training, and orientation and practice development initiatives in the
area. Maintain professional growth and ethical standards. Provide effective
support to nursing services and hospital management by managing the
hospital after hours, when the need arises.
ENQUIRIES : Mr ST Mndende Tel No: (021) 370-1400 / Mr M Banzi Tel No: (021) 370-1248
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The
pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of three months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/150 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Hillside Clinic, Beaufort West Sub-district,
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Post-basic Nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1-year
Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care
(R48) accredited with SANC. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience:
A minimum of 9 years of appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least
5 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable
experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as mentioned
112
above. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license and
willingness to travel. Willingness to rotate between PHC clinics within the Sub-
District. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Information management with
regards to PHC indicators. Quality assurance knowledge. COPC Principles
and implementation. Legislation of Ideal Clinic and Office of Health standards
and compliance.
DUTIES : Effective integrated execution and management of all clinical programmes (i.e.
Acute, Chronic, Woman and Child Health and TB/HIV/AIDS/STI). Effective
management of Support Services which includes, Information Management
with regards to data collection, verification, report writing and submission of
data, Human Resources (supervision of staff, development and performance
management), Finance and Supply Chain Management to ensure effective
budgeting and control, control over infrastructure, maintenance and security.
Liaise with relevant stakeholders. Effective communication with all levels of
service delivery. Facilitation and implementation of COPC.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Hansen Tel No: (023) 414 - 8200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
can be subjected to a practical/ oral assessment. The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within Central Karoo District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/151 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER: GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Malmesbury CDC, Swartland Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Post-basic qualification, with duration of at least 1-year, in Curative Skills in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited
with the SANC (R48). Registration with Professional council: Registration with
the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognizable nursing
experience after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General
nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognizable nursing
experience after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General
Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience after obtaining the 1 year post basic
qualification in the relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s license and willingness to travel to the clinics around
Swartland Sub-district Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy
(MS Word and Excel). Demonstrate in-depth knowledge of Nursing and public
service legislation. Appropriate experience in a primary health care setting.
Appropriate experience in rendering a support service.
DUTIES : Ensure the rendering of a comprehensive nursing health care program for the
promotion of health, self-care, treatment and rehabilitation of patients at the
primary health care facility. Effective Human Resource Management and
Development Management. Effective stock control and management of
equipment within the facility. Contribute to the training and professional
development of students and sub-ordinates. Foster Community Participation
and Collaboration with Partners and Stakeholders within the Sub-district.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. RA Christoffels Tel No: (022) 482 2729
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Swartland Sub-district,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.” Candidates who are not in possession of the
113
stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who
apply for the first time for registration in the post-basic qualification: Diploma in
Clinical Nursing Science, Health Assessment, Treatment Care with the South
African Nursing Council.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/152 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 AND 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING:
TRAUMA AND OPD)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : False Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
midwife. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year,
accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical
Care Nursing: General or Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care
Nursing: Trauma and Emergency. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and midwife. Experience:
Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing
after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific speciality after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic nursing qualification with the SANC as mentioned above.
Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts, Sundays, Public
Holidays, weekends, night shift and over-time. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good written and verbal communication skills. Knowledge
of policies and legislation regarding Trauma/Emergency/Critical Care Services
and the ability to implement it. Leadership and interpersonal skills. Computer
literacy (ie MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook).
DUTIES : Provide and supervise holistic Institutional nursing care regarding the
identification of nursing care needs, the planning and implementation of
nursing care plans. Implement standards, practices, criteria and indicators for
quality nursing (quality practice). Ensure overall quality of the nursing care is
facilitated cost effectively, efficiently and equitable whilst at the same time
ensuring compliance to the requirements of professional an ethical practice.
Collaborate and maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and
other stakeholders. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently
and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Tyutu Tel No: (021) 832-5206
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant Council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. The concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification in Medical and Surgical Science: Trauma and Emergency or
Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing: General. The
pool of applicants will be considered for vacancies within Metro Health
Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
114
POST 34/153 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING:
OBSTETRICS & GYNAECOLOGY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
degree/diploma in nursing and midwifery) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse and Midwife. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1-year accredited with SANC in Advanced Midwifery & Neonatal Nursing
Science. Registration with Professional council: Registration with SANC as
Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific
speciality after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in Advanced
Midwifery & Neonatal Nursing Science. Inherent requirement of the job: Ability
to work shifts during the day and night, weekends and public holidays and
overtime when required by supervisor. Expected to function rotate within the
Functional Business Unit of Neonates, Paediatrics, Maternity and MOU.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and understanding of nursing
legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices within a hospital
environment. Critical thinking and good interpersonal skills. Excellent clinical
skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialised nursing care within the professional,
ethical and legal framework and work as part of the multi-disciplinary team.
Effective utilisation of all resources. Provide support to Nursing Services
ensuring quality productivity. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards
and self-development. Participation in training, including mentoring and
research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Rulumeni Tel No: (023) 348-1496
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for vacancies within Worcester Regional Hospital
for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a practical test.
Candidates who are not in possession of the required qualification will be
appointed into the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the
necessary qualification within a predetermined period of time. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science with
the South African Nursing Council.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/154 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY NURSING:
THEATRE)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Caledon Hospital, Theewaterskloof Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A
post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year accredited with
the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science Operating Theatre.
115
Registration with Professional council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the
specific specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in Medical
and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating Theatre. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB/C1) driver’s licence. Willingness to work shifts, public
holidays, after-hours, night duty and weekends. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Office). Demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practices in the field of specialty. Ability to promote quality through the setting,
implementation, and the monitoring of nursing standards in the operating
theatre. Ability to function independently as well as part of multi-disciplinary
team. Effective communication. Interpersonal, decision making, and conflict
resolution skills. Good organisational skills and the ability to function under
pressure.
DUTIES : Provide comprehensive specialized nursing care provided within a
professional/ legal framework. Participate with the multi-disciplinary team to
provide holistic health care, provide good documentation, care, planning and
health education. Support and participate in clinical practice development
initiatives, educational activities, and research. Effective utilization of human
and financial resources. Provide support services to Supervisor and Nursing
division.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Roman Tel No: (028) 212-1070
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be required to undergo a practical assessment. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification in: Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating
Theatre. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within the
Overberg District, for a period of 3 months from the date of the advert, provided
that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/155 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: OCCUPATIONAL
HEALTH AND SAFETY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma /
degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse. A post-basic
nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year accredited with the SANC
in Occupational Health Nursing Science. Registration with Professional
council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience:
Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing
after registration as a Professional nurse with the SANC in General nursing.
Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional with the SANC in General nursing.
Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work after hours and clinical
duties to meet the operational requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good verbal and communication and Computer literacy (Ms Word, Excel,
Power point) Practical knowledge of Occupational Health and Risk
Management. Practical knowledge of research methodology and Quality
116
Management. Ability to work independently and as part of the multi-disciplinary
team.
DUTIES : Provide Occupational Health Clinical Services at institutional level (promoting
Health, Safety and Wellness in the workplace). Provide advisory services on
all Occupational Health and Safety matters. Render an efficient administrative
system and control of the Occupational Health Service. Conduct Risk
assessment audits. Participate in training programmes in conjunction with
People Management and Training Departments as required. Management &
Promotion of Quality Assurance and Infection Prevention and Control (liaise
with IPC related matters)
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Dubru-Shunmugam Tel No: (021) 799-1125 or Email:
Mary.Dubru@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)” The pool of candidates will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the department for a period of 3
months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/156 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha Eastern Sub Structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Appropriate 3-year degree/diploma.
Experience: Appropriate experience in Information Management. Appropriate
experience in health-related Information Systems. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Advance technical skills, including proficiency in database management, MS
Office Suite, and reporting tools. e.g. MS Excel, Power BI. Strong data
analytical skills for interpretation of health-related information. Strong
understanding of legislation, policies, and prescripts governing information
management in the public health sector. Proven ability to manage resources
effectively, and drive performance through strong planning, decision-making,
and interpersonal skills. Strong team management skills with the ability to lead,
motivate, and coordinate teams to achieve organizational goals effectively.
DUTIES : Oversee and maintain structured data capture processes, ensure compliance
and seamless communication of information within the Sub-structure. Perform
data analysis, prepare comprehensive reports, and present findings to support
decision-making. Provide feedback and support to facilities within the Sub-
structure and Metro Health Services. Ensure data quality and integrity by
implementing robust data verification and validation processes. Enforce
compliance with departmental policies and guidelines on information
management. Provide technical support and system development assistance
to enhance information flow and efficiency. Lead a team by supervising daily
operations, providing guidance, and conducting performance evaluations to
drive excellence. Manage and support sub-ordinates and provide support to
manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Manesen at (065) 860-9938
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. “The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
117
POST 34/157 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ASSEST MANAGEMENT
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Diploma/ Degree in
Accounting, Financial Management, Supply Chain Management (with
Accounting/Finance modules), or equivalent. Experience: Appropriate
experience in asset management, with a proven track record in: Financial
reporting and compliance with the Modified Cash Standard, managing
government movable assets, including reconciliations, disposals, and audit
processes, leading teams and implementing asset management controls.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strong leadership, conflict resolution, and
project management skills. Expertise in government asset management
systems (e.g., LOGIS, Syspro) and advanced Excel. Proficiency in financial
reporting, reconciliations, and audit processes. Advanced knowledge of Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, and Modified Cash
Standard.
DUTIES : Collaborate with finance, procurement, and clinical teams to align asset
management with budgetary and operational needs. Manage the moveable
asset management component, including staff performance, training, and HR
matters. Oversee real-time capturing of acquisitions, transfers, disposals, and
barcoding on the institutional asset register. Plan and conduct the annual asset
verification and reconcile discrepancies between the asset register and BAS
systems. Prepare and reconcile monthly/quarterly financial reports, including
inputs for the Annual Financial Statements (AFS) and asset disclosure notes.
Ensure accurate accounting for assets in compliance with the Modified Cash
Standard and PFMA/Treasury Regulations, including ensuring that asset
valuations align with GRAP (Generally Recognised Accounting Practice)
standards for departmental reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Schroeder Tel No: (021) 404-3248
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post the pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post. Shortlisted candidates may be subjected to a practical
test.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/158 : LAUNDRY MANAGER: CONTROL (LINEN MANAGEMENT)
Directorate: Facilities Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (Laundry Services: Bellville, M4 Building)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National
Diploma/Degree. Experience: Appropriate management experience. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willing to travel throughout the Western Cape
Province. Valid driver’s licence (Code B). Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of public service sector procurement, PFMA and regulations.
Excellent verbal and written communication skills. Extensive knowledge and
experience in the functional fields of laundry operation and linen auditing.
DUTIES : Manage linen stock levels at health institutions within the Western Cape
Department of Health and Wellness. Provide accurate statistics on linen stock
levels and production rates at health institutions to management monthly.
Manage and provide training regarding control of linen at hospitals and
institutions in terms of set policy and guidelines. Manage and provide an
effective linen support service to health institutions within the Western Cape
Department of Health and Wellness. Manage the Monitoring and Evaluation of
Linen Service. Perform regular inspections of linen stock levels at health
institutions within the Western Cape Government. Manage the linen audit
team. Manage the new Western Cape Department of Health and Wellness
Linen Depot.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Jantjies Tel No: (021) 918-1702
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
118
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/159 : DIETICIAN GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Metro TB (Transitional Care) Hospital Complex
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Appropriate qualification that allows for the
required registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as Dietician. Registration with a professional council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Dietician. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration
with the HPCSA as Dietician. 1-year relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA as Dietician in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it
is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as Dietician, in respect of SA qualified employees. A Minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Dietician in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Dietician. A
minimum of 21 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Dietician in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required
to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent
requirements of the job: Will be required to obtain Continuing Professional
Development (CPD) points to maintain registration and remain compliant with
the HPCSA. Willingness to work as a Dietician within the multidisciplinary team
at a transitional care facility/Metro TB Hospital Complex. Valid driver’s license
Code B/EB. Willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Thorough
knowledge and exposure to all aspects relating to Dietetics. Appropriate clinical
experience as a Dietician in an acute hospital or rehabilitative environment.
Ability to solve problems, organize and prioritize patients’ treatment and
discharge plans. Ability to work independently and under pressure. Good
interpersonal, communication and organizational skills. Computer literacy
(Microsoft Word, Excel, and PowerPoint)
DUTIES : To deliver a comprehensive Dietetic service to clients (patients) ensuring
optimal nutritional care. Assessment and the treatment of patients that is
referred to Metro TB Hospital Complex / transitional care facility with nutritional
needs in a medical, rehabilitative, TB and palliative setting. Be responsible for
the administration related to patient care as well as departmental
administration. Management of financial resources and assets in allocated
work area. Effective support in the multidisciplinary context and to the
management team. Provide support to the food service Manager / supervisor
for specialized nutrition and effectively manage resources for provisioning of
Dietetic services. Capacitated workforce – provide in-service training and
mentoring of all categories of personnel on nutrition related topics.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M.G. Nabie Tel No: (021) 508-7413
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable for health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Metro TB Centre, for a period of three months
from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
119
POST 34/160 : CLINICAL TECHNOLOGIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (CRITICAL CARE)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Clinical Technologist: Critical Care. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Clinical Technologist: Critical Care Inherent
requirements of the job: Will be required to work after hours (on call), over
weekends and on public holidays. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration
with the HPCSA in Clinical Technology in respect of RSA qualified employees.
One-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in Clinical
Technology in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required
to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum
of 10 years’ relevant experience after registration with HPCSA in Clinical
Technology in respect of SA qualified employees. Minimum of 11 years’
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in Clinical Technology in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 20
years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in Clinical
Technology in respect of RSA qualified employees. Minimum of 21 years’
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in Clinical Technology in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
community service as required in South Africa. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and communication skills (verbal and
written) with above average technical skills and problem-solving ability under
pressure. Proven to work within a group at all levels of authority. Ability to work
under pressure. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, Outlook). Capable of
maintaining confidentiality. Ability to work independently and in team context.
Knowledge of ventilation, infusion devices, ICU patient transport and
equipment trouble shooting. Experience in ICU (Adult and Neonatal), Theatre
and Trauma/Emergency unit.
DUTIES : Contribute to the training of technologists and other healthcare professionals.
Effectively perform stock control and maintenance of ICU equipment and
consumables. Assist with ICU and Theatre diagnostic and therapeutic
procedures including resuscitation. Perform quality control measures for ICU
and Anaesthetic equipment. Effectively work in various areas (Mainly ICU with
future rotational duties through Theatre and Maternity/Neonatal ICU, Trauma
& Emergency) in the Clinical Technology – Critical Care Service s at Groote
Schuur.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Straithie Tel No: (021) 404-3291
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/161 : CHIEF FOOD SERVICE MANAGER (CATERING SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Appropriate 3-year National
Diploma/Degree in Food Service Management (or equivalent qualification).
120
Experience: Appropriate experience in a large-scale Hospital Food Service
environment. Appropriate management and supervisory experience. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, weekends, and public
holidays. Willingness to be on standby. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of hygiene and safety procedures in an industrial Food Service
Unit. The ability to create spreadsheets, word documents and presentations in
Microsoft Office Knowledge and skills regarding managing the operation of an
industrial Food Service Unit. Problem solving, decision making and time
management skills. Sound numerical skills. Computer literacy (Microsoft
Office).
DUTIES : Plan and develop the strategic management of the Food Services Unit.
Manage an operational Food Service Unit. Manage risks within the Food
Service Unit. Manage all related Human Resource Manage matters of the
Foodservices Unit. Manage all related Finance matters of the Foodservices
Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Engelbrecht Tel No: (021) 503-5017
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates will be subjected to a written and oral assessment. The pool of
applicants will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the
job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same
as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/162 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate Support Services experience. Supervisory
experience. Maintenance of buildings, equipment, and machinery experience.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills, both verbal and
written and have computer skills (MS Office, Excel and Word). Ability to draft
and implement standard operating procedures as well as the ability to draft
service level agreements and contracts. Extensive knowledge of the Treasury
Regulations and Contract Management, PFMA, OHS and Public Service Acts
as well as extensive knowledge of Western Cape Government maintenance
protocols. Knowledge of SCM procedures, knowledge of LOGIS and working
knowledge of support services management or facilities management.
DUTIES : Promote and maintain acceptable standards of quality of services delivered by
the Support Service components (Transport, Linen, Mortuary, Porters,
Switchboard, Cleaning, Waste, Grounds, Parking, Security). Effective control
of maintenance and capital works of buildings and equipment of institution.
Optimum utilisation and supervision of human and other resources within
Support Services. Ensure effective and efficient contract management. Ensure
relevant policy implementation and compliance (Occupational Health & Safety,
Ideal Hospital Framework, regulated norms & standards, etc.) at the Hospital.
Support to supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Cornelius Tel No: (021) 834-5897
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Shortlisted candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/163 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCES
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
121
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: An Appropriate three-year National
Diploma/Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Human Resources
Management, Personnel Management (i.e. Salary Administration, Service
Conditions. Appropriate supervisory experience of Personnel Management
clerks. Appropriate PERSAL and payroll experience. Inherent requirements of
the job: Valid driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
interpersonal and conflict resolution skills. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, Outlook and PERSAL). Knowledge and experience of commuted
overtime system and OSD & non-OSD prescripts. Approval experience of all
personnel relevant functions on PERSAL. Ability to provide training.
Knowledge of the PFMA, experience of debt management and knowledge of
all HR related policies, legislation, guidelines, standards, procedures and
applicable practices.
DUTIES : Administer and ensure effective and efficient implementation of HRM policies,
prescripts, approval of PERSAL transactions with regard to Personnel
provisioning, Personnel and Salary administration. Supervise Administration
Clerks to ensure effective functioning of the Human Resource Section,
Administer and ensure effective and efficient implementation of appointments,
service terminations, salary administration and general service conditions,
audit of leave and personnel files, debt management, pension administration
and management of pay sheets, administration of OSD and Grade
Progression, sessional appointments and RTAs administration. Complete ad-
hoc tasks, e.g. answer audit queries. Implement recommendations of the
Auditor-General or Advisory Services. Monitor Compliance w.r.t Payroll
administration and Service Benefits. Provide monitoring and evaluation of HR
audit reports. Provide training to HR clerks and support Victoria staff members
as a whole regarding HR related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Theunissen Tel No: (021) 799-1199 or email
Janine.Theunissen@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the department, for a period
of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post. Candidates may be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/164 : EMS SHIFT LEADER GRADE 3 TO 6 (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency, Clinical and Support Services
SALARY : Grade 3: R335 226 per annum
Grade 4: R397 308 per annum
Grade 5: R480 108 per annum
Grade 6: R589 443 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services, Metropole and Rural Districts
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 3: Successful completion of the
Intermediate Life Support (ILS) that allows registration with the HPCSA as an
Ambulance Emergency Assistant (AEA). -Grade 4: Successful completion of
the Emergency Care Technician (ECT) that allows registration with the HPCSA
as an Emergency Care Technician (ECT). Grade 5: Successful completion of
the Critical Care Assistant course (CCA) or National Diploma that allows
registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic. Grade 6: Successful completion
of the B-Tech Degree that allows registration with the HPCSA as Emergency
Care Practitioner (ECP). Registration with a Professional council: Grade 3:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as an AEA.
Grade 4: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as
an ECT. Grade 5: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa as a Paramedic. Grade 6: Registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa as an ECP. Experience: Grade 3: Minimum of 3 years’
experience within your current registration category with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa as an Ambulance Emergency Assistant
(AEA). Grade 4: Minimum of 3 years’ experience within your current
registration category with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as an
Emergency Care Technician (ECT). Grade 5: Minimum of 3 years’ experience
your current registration category with the Health Professions Council of South
122
Africa as Paramedic. Grade 6: Minimum of 3 years’ experience your current
registration category with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as an
Emergency Care Practitioner (ECP). Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
code C1 driver’s license. Current Professional driver’s permit. Current
registration with HPCSA as an AEA, ECT, Paramedic or ECP. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Excellent knowledge of all levels of Emergency Care
protocols. Good communication and interpersonal skills. Computer literacy in
the MS Office package. Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Effective pre-hospital Emergency Medical Care and response to incidences
when required. Ensure effective supervision and maintenance of Emergency
Vehicles and equipment in line with the Financial and Fleet directives. Ensure
effective report writing with regards to accident and incident reports, loss and
theft control incidents and safety incidents. Ensure effective communication
with regards to patients, colleagues, other services, and members of the
Public. -Supervise and manage rostered shifts and personnel in line with
People Management policies and practices. Provide effective administrative
support to the Supervisor when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Modack-Robertson Tel No: (021) 932 1966
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be expected to undergo a practical assessment. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Emergency Medical Services, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/165 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (ASSET
MANAGEMENT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital, Khayelitsha Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate
experience/competencies that focuses on the Key Performance Areas (KRA’s)
of the post. LOGIS experience, IPS experience and good leadership abilities.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), National, Provincial Treasury
Regulations and the Accounting Officer’s System. A working knowledge of all
relevant legislation, policies and prescripts applicable to SCM. Good
communication and interpersonal skills. Ability to work under pressure,
independently and in a team. Computer literacy (MS Windows, Word and
Excel). Knowledge of LOGIS; BAS Treasury regulations and stock control
system. Willingness to work overtime.
DUTIES : Acquisition of assets and repairs of equipment. Manage the annual asset
stocktaking process. Monitoring of Assets at institutions. Ensure effective and
efficient annual/monthly reporting of Asset, Disclosure Notes, Gifts &
Donations. Disposals & Transfers. Demand and Acquisition Management.
Compliance: Ensure that all batchers are compliant as per finance instructions
and accounting officer system. Effective efficient and economic Human
Resource Management pertaining to SCM.
ENQUIRIES : N Sitonga Tel No: (021) 360-4237 or Email:
Ntsikelelo.Sitonga@westerncape.gov.za
123
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates will be subjected to a written and oral assessment. The pool of
applicants will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the
job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same
as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/166 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate Support Services experience. Appropriate
Supervisory experience. Appropriate experience in maintenance of buildings,
equipment and machinery. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s
licence (Code B/EB). Willingness to do standby and work overtime.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to draft service level
agreements/contracts and implement standard operating procedures.
Appropriate knowledge of the Treasury Regulations and Contract
Management, PFMA, OHS, and Public Service Acts. Good communication and
interpersonal skills. Computer skills (MS Office, Excel, and Word). Appropriate
knowledge of Western Cape Government maintenance protocols. Working
knowledge of support services management or facilities management.
Willingness to do standby and work overtime.
DUTIES : Promote and maintain acceptable standards of quality of services delivered by
the Support Service components (Transport, Linen, Porters, Switchboard,
Cleaning, Waste, Grounds, Parking, Security). Effective support of
maintenance and capital works of buildings and equipment of institution.
Ensure effective and efficient contract management. Ensure relevant policy
implementation and compliance (Occupational Health & Safety, Ideal Hospital
Framework, regulated norms & standards, etc.) at the Hospital. Support to ASD
Facility Management, Staff and Support Services section. Optimum utilisation
and supervision of human and other resources within Support Services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Scholtz Tel No: (021) 902-8061
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant within the Department for a
period of 3 months from date of advert. Applicants will be subjected to a
written/practical and oral assessment
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/167 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum.
CENTRE : Oral Health Centre, Tygerberg/Mitchell’s Plain Platform
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Information Management.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Advanced Computer literacy (MS Office 365
package, SINJANI, Clinicom & Business Intelligence). Knowledge of business
process analysis, mapping, modelling and automation of Systems to improve
data flow processes. Compilation of reports for meetings and decision making
– using various BI platforms (Power BI).
DUTIES : Design, implement and coordinate a well-established ICT functionality within
the organisation (DITCOM, CITCOM, ITSR) Coordinate the Licencing &
Compliance process according to the departmental prescripts. Develop, test
and implement automated solutions for existing or new manual processes as
part of the IM team. Creating of Dashboards and visualisations in aid of creating
data awareness and information sharing. Submit timeous reports to
management and staff on performance. Operate as part of the team through
participation in innovations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Cooper Tel No: (021) 937 3141
124
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates will be subjected to a written and oral assessment. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/168 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING) (X2
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital: (Family Meds) (X1 post), (Mixed Surgery) (X1
post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Basic R425 qualification (i.e degree/
diploma in Nursing) or equivalent that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse. Registration with Professional
council: Registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade
1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/ recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/ recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
in General Nursing. Inherent requirement of the job: Ability to work shifts during
the day and night, weekends and public holidays and overtime when required
by supervisor. Willingness to rotate within different Functional Business Units.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): The ability to function independently in a
multi-disciplinary team and the ability to direct the team to ensure quality
nursing care. Good problem solving, motivational and leadership skills.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice/quality patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria
and indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and
health care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and
health care. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently and
effectively. Ensure accurate collection and recording of data. Render support
to the supervisor and colleagues.
ENQUIRIES : Ms AE Badenhorst Tel No: (023) 348-1137
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for vacancies within Worcester Regional Hospital
for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a practical test.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/169 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Sonstraal Transitional Care Hospital, Paarl
125
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Registration with
Professional council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration at SANC as a
Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB/) driver’s license. Frequent travelling between Sonstraal
Hospital (Paarl) and ID Hospital (Malmsbury). Willingness to work overtime
when necessary. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to function/make
decisions independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good
communication, interpersonal relationships, exceptional leadership and conflict
resolution skills. Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook. Knowledge
of relevant legislation and policies of the Department of Health Western Cape.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic nursing care with set standards and within a
professional/legal framework. Effective utilisation of resources. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development. Provision of
Support to Nursing Services. Participation in training and research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Liebenberg Tel No: (021) 815 8340
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a competency assessment. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within West Coast TB Complex, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/170 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING)
(SPECIALISED NURSING SERVICES)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Riversdale Hospital, Hessequa Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with Professional council: Registration with the SANC as
a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willing to work shifts, including weekends, public
holidays and night duty. Willingness to rotate to other wards in the facility and
to work at the clinic in the Sub-district when needed. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Basic computer skill in Ms Word. The ability to function
independently under pressure. Knowledge of Nursing Practices, Infection
Prevention Control, control measures and practices. Excellent communication
skills (both written and verbal).
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of quality patient care.
Practice nursing and health care in accordance with the laws and regulations
relevant to nursing and health care. Implement standards, practices, criteria,
126
and indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Maintain constructive
working relationships with nursing and other stakeholders. Utilize human,
material, and physical resources efficiently and effectively. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self- development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr NL Mphato Tel No: (028) 713-8643
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written assessment. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. -This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.”
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/171 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST-BASIC) GRADE 1 TO 3 (PRIMARY
HEALTH CARE) (X2 POSTS)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R264 750 per annum
Grade 2: R306 411 per annum
Grade 3: R330 540 per annum
CENTRE : Piketberg CDC (X1 Post)
Bergriver Sub-district (Stationed at Velddrif Clinic) (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: As required by the training facility and the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) plus Post-Basic Pharmacist Assistant
qualification that allows registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant
(Post-Basic) or Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) Institutional. Registration
with Professional council: Registration with the South African Pharmacy
Council as Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) (Institutional) or Pharmacist
Assistant (Post-Basic). Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as a Post
Basic Pharmacist Assistant with SAPC. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after registration Pharmacist
Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years’
appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a
Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Inherent requirement of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to travel. Willingness to
perform regular after-hours duties. Willingness to travel between PHC facilities
within the Bergrivier SD and provide relief as Post Basic Pharmacist Assistant.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel,
PowerPoint and Outlook). Ability to work accurately under pressure and
maintain a high standard of professionalism. Ability to work independently and
in a multi-disciplinary team with excellent interpersonal and communication
skills. -Appropriate knowledge of National and Provincial Health policies;
Medicines Act 101 of 1965; Pharmacy Act 53 of 1974 and Public Finance
Management Act. Appropriate clinical and pharmaceutical knowledge.
Innovative and analytical thinking and the ability to initiate, coordinate, manage
and sustain programs.
DUTIES : Manage drug supply in the clinic as well as in satellite clinics and mobiles.
Dispensing of medicine. Administration and Collection of all pharmacy related
data for M + E purposes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Engel Tel No: (022) 913-1337
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
127
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status). The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within the Bergriver Sub-district, for a period of three months from
the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/172 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy in MS Word, Outlook and Excel applications. Proven ability
to produce and organize formal documents, spreadsheets as well as manage
emails, email responses and electronic calendars. Excellent interpersonal,
time management and filing skills. Ability to plan, organize and execute office
responsibilities. Strong sense of initiative, prioritization and precision and ability
to work independently. Minute taking skills.
DUTIES : Render high quality administrative and secretarial support to the office of the
Medical Manager. Manage professional communications by email, telephone
and in-person. Take minutes at meetings. Timeously and accurately process
paperwork and information to internal and external stakeholders.
Administrative functions to support the office of the Medical Manager. Support
of clinical projects as requested Maintain documentary registry, both electronic
and hard copy for administrative tasks.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Salie Tel No: (021) 658-5430
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. This post does
not form part of any Occupation Specific Dispensation. Shortlisted candidates
may be required to complete a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/173 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Observatory Forensic Pathology Institute (OFPI), Forensic Pathology Service
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or Equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate Clinical administrative experience. Appropriate typing
experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Ability to type a minimum of 30
words per minute. Proficiency in Microsoft Office (MS Word and MS Excel).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Dictaphone typing. Ability to collate and
verify data accurately. Good interpersonal and organizational skills. Ability to
work under pressure. Ability to interpret and apply policies. Ability to
communicate clearly and discreetly in person and in writing. Accuracy in
entering numerical data using the numeric keyboard, including the decimal
point and mathematical operators.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient typing of post-mortem reports. Effective and efficient
administrative support to the Division of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology.
Effective and efficient management of Forensic Databases. Effective
management of Forensic documentation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TG Cornelius Tel No: (021) 836-0965/0
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to a security clearance prior to appointment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for vacancies within the Observatory Forensic Pathology
Institute for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
128
POST 34/174 : PERSONNEL OFFICER: PEOPLE ADMINISTRATION
Directorate: People Management Planning and Practices
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Human Resources that include Salary
Administration, Service Conditions, Personnel Administration, Pension
Administration and PERSAL. Competencies (knowledge/skills): A sound
understanding of HRM policies, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
and Collective Agreements concerning personnel and salary administration.
Competency in the MS Office Suite and PERSAL system operations. Strong
organisational skills with a focus on accuracy, attention to detail, and deadline
management. Strong critical thinking and problem-solving capabilities.
DUTIES : Perform all administrative duties pertaining to the Personnel Administration
section e.g. appointments, service terminations, transfers, pension
administration, salary administration, leave, housing, and debt management.
Responsible for capturing transactions on PERSAL and auditing of personnel
and leave records. Maintenance of registers, i.e. appointment, probation,
ORW, and service terminations. Provide an effective support service to
supervisor (i.e. relief duties and attending meetings). Handle all telephone and
written enquiries. Assist staff, supervisor, management and members of the
Public with regard to Human Resource and Personnel matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr RB Vermeulen Tel No: (021) 483 8909 or email:
Ryan.Vermeulen@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/175 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SCM (WAREHOUSE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
experience/competences that focuses on the Key Performance Areas (KRA’s)
of the post. Experience: Knowledge and appropriate experience in Supply
Chain Management and Warehouse Management. Inherent requirements of
the job: Ability to lift and move heavy boxes and stock. Valid driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint and Outlook). Sound communication, organisational, planning and
interpersonal skills. Sound knowledge of a Warehouse Management
environment and Logis / Syspro systems of the Western Cape Government
Health & Wellness (BAS, LOGIS). Knowledge on matters related to the
Accounting Officer’s System / Financial Administration (including legislation
and policy documents, i.e. PFMA, National Treasury Regulations, and
Provincial Instructions). Appropriate knowledge of relevant financial prescripts,
departmental policies, delegations and procedures. An aptitude for working
with warehouse stock, different stakeholders (users / wards), financial figures
and good organizational and stock balance skills. Appropriate knowledge and
practical experience in LOGIS, ESL, Electronic Procurement Solutions (EPS)
and Microsoft Office.
DUTIES : Prepare and capture documentations (Log1’s & issue vouchers) for the
Warehouse Management team. Effective control over warehouse stock.
Timeous delivery of stock to departments, theatre and clinics in a cost effective
and safe manner. Ensure regular warehouse item spot checks and
replenishment thereof. Adhere to all prescripts. Support Supervisor and
Manager. Capture of issues, receipts, donations, disposals etc. Request dues-
out reports. Applying of warehouse stock principles (FIFO / LIFO). Handle
telephonic and written enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Q. Vaughan Tel No: (021) 377-4363
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a competency test. The pool of applications
129
will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post. As directed by the Department of Public
Service and Administration, applicants must note that further checks will be
conducted once they are shortlisted and that their appointment is subject to
positive outcomes on these checks, which include security clearance,
qualification verification, criminal records and previous employment.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/176 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: REGISTRY (MEDICAL RECORDS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience of medical records processes and
procedures. Experience of Clinicom system. Inherent requirement of the job:
Willingness to work shifts. Must be willing to rotate and/or relieve personnel.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy. Good written and verbal
communication skills.
DUTIES : Loaning and returning of patient files on Clinicom. Record file movement on
Clinicom. Obtain patient files according to appointments for the following day.
Draw files on request from Medical Staff. Filing of patient related documents.
Destruction of old patient files and E-ray. Locate and retrieve missing patient
files. Handle telephone enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Van der Riel Tel No: (021) 799-1270
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a competency test. As directed by the Department of
Public Service and Administration, applicants must note that further checks will
be conducted once they are shortlisted and that their appointment is subject to
positive outcomes on these checks, which include security clearance,
qualification verification, criminal records and previous employment. The pool
of applications will be considered for vacancies within the department, for a
period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/177 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HRM (PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT AND
ADVERTISING)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in administering the Staff Performance
Management System (SPMS) and Advertising. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Office). Competency in the PERSAL
system. Good communication skills (verbal and written).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Assist with the correct implementation of SPMS
system applied at Groote Schuur Hospital. Correct implementation of pay and
grade progression and instating on PERSAL. Administration of applications to
perform Other Remunerative Work (ORW). Effective storage and safekeeping
of documents. Assist with the timeous and accurate advertising of posts. Assist
with Permis training. Perform other HRM tasks and relieve on other sections
as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Jacobs Tel No: (021) 404 2010
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
130
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/178 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (ASSET
MANAGEMENT)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Forensic Pathology Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 12/ Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administration experience in Asset Management.
Appropriate experience in LOGIS. Inherent requirement of the job: Ability to
work in a physically demanding environment. Willingness to travel and work
overtime when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
communicate clearly and discreetly in person and in writing. Computer literacy
(MS Office: Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint). Knowledge and exposure
to the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Regulations and Financial
Instructions and Legislations pertaining to Asset Management. Knowledge of
SCM Systems, i.e. SharePoint and SCM Helpdesk (Uploading Requests) and
Asset Stock take APP (Asset Scanning) and Asset Dashboard (Extracting
Asset Information). Ability to work in a team and independently. Ability to
accurately analyze data (numbers). Good interpersonal and organizational
skills.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient management of Assets. Maintenance of the Electronic
Asset Register (LOGIS). Reporting theft, losses and shortages. Movements,
repair and condemning of equipment and furniture. Effective and efficient
Management of Asset Counts. ICN maintenance and support to FPS facilities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JJ Levendal, Email: (Juanita.Levendal@westerncape.gov.za)
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for vacancies with Forensic Pathology Service: Head Office, for a
period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/179 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (TRANSPORT SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience within a transport section within a support
services environment. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code C/ C1/
EC1/EC) driver’s licence. Valid Public Driver’s Permit (PDP). Willingness to
travel and work overtime when required due to operational needs.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (Word and Excel). Ability
to accept accountability and responsibility, and to work independently and
unsupervised, as well as in a multi-disciplinary team. Knowledge of Transport
Circulars, relevant policies and instructions. Capacity to work amongst people
with disabilities/special mental healthcare needs.
DUTIES : Coordinate GG transport and the maintaining all logbooks, kilometres, vehicle
inspections and the maintenance of GG vehicles including all accident report.
Maintain all relevant registers, filing, electronic systems and assist with ad-hoc
tasks. Supervision of subordinates and human resource control within transport
section. To ensure effective Financial Resources within the transport section.
Optimally rendered administrative services to the Administrative Officer and
Assistant Director: Support Service.
ENQUIRIES : Mr F Leukes Tel No: (021) 503-5066
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
131
POST 34/180 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: REGISTRY (MEDICAL RECORDS)
SALARY : R228 312 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience of Medical Records or Registry services.
Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts. Must be willing to
rotate and/or relief personnel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer
literacy. Good written and verbal communication skills.
DUTIES : Batching of all incoming episode folders. Issue and receive folders master file
daily. Responsible for archiving all inactive folders. Ensure that folders are
prepared correctly. Ensure that folders are scanned as per prescripts. Ensure
that folders are being index correctly. Daily re-filing of episodes into yellow
folders. File tracking on Hospital Information System and Trace misfiles.
Ensure duplicate folders are being merged correctly. Handle of Microfilm as per
request. Handle telephone enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Xontana Tel No: (021) 938-4512
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/181 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
(PROCUREMENT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 312 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accountancy as a passed subject with experience /
competencies that focuses on the Key Performance Areas (KPA's) of the post.
Experience: Appropriate experience in Supply Chain Management.
Appropriate experience and knowledge in Public Sector Procurement and
Supply Chain Management Processes and Procedures. Appropriate
experience in procurement functionality & the utilization of the Electronic
Procurement System (EPS), Essential Supplier List (ESL) & Logistical
Information System (LOGIS). Inherent requirements of the job: Sound
knowledge of & experience in working on BAS, Logis & EPS. Willingness to
work after hours if & when needed. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and
Outlook). Sound communication, organisational, planning and interpersonal
skills. Sound knowledge of a Procurement Management environment and
financial systems of the Government (BAS, LOGIS). Knowledge on matters
related to Financial Administration (including legislation and policy documents,
i.e. PFMA, National Treasury Regulations, and Provincial Instructions).
Appropriate knowledge of relevant financial prescripts, departmental policies,
delegations and procedures. An aptitude for working with financial figures and
good organizational, managerial and leadership skills.
DUTIES : Demand and Acquisition Management of Goods and Services for the
Klipfontein & Mitchell’s Plain Substructure area. Assisting with the compilation
of specifications for various Goods and Services to meet the requirements of
the end-user. Attend briefing / site meetings if & when required. Sourcing
Quotations for Goods and Services via the EPS. Preparation of Quotation
Batches for the Quotation Committee. Processing, expediting & the follow-up
of Purchase Orders. Communication and Feedback with Suppliers and End-
users. Report on Procurement Related Transactions on a weekly / monthly
basis. Assist in the preparations of the Interim and Annual Financial Statement
reconciliations w.r.t. assets and reporting thereof. Adhere to all prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Q.J. Vaughan Tel No: (021) 377-4363
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a competency test. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
132
those of the advertised post. As directed by the Department of Public Service
and Administration, applicants must note that further checks will be conducted
once they are shortlisted and that their appointment is subject to positive
outcomes on these checks, which include security clearance, qualification
verification, criminal records and previous employment.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/182 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (ASSETS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
experience / competencies that focus on the Key Performance Area (KRA) of
the post. Experience: Knowledge and appropriate experience in Supply Chain
Management and Asset Management. Inherent requirement of the job: Perform
overtime duties when required. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and
Outlook Sound communication, organisational, planning and interpersonal
skills. Sound knowledge of an Asset Management environment and financial
systems of the Government (BAS, LOGIS). Knowledge on matters related to
Financial Administration (including legislation and policy documents, i.e.
PFMA, National Treasury Regulations, and Provincial Instructions).
Appropriate knowledge of relevant financial prescripts, departmental policies,
delegations and procedures. An aptitude for working with financial figures and
good organizational, managerial and leadership skills. Appropriate knowledge
and practical experience in LOGIS, ESL, Electronic Procurement Solutions
(EPS) and Microsoft Office.
DUTIES : Prepare and capture documentation for the Asset Management team. Effective
control over all assets. Responsible for asset counts of various facilities within
the drainage area. Assist in the preparations of the Interim and Annual
Financial Statement reconciliations w.r.t. assets and reporting thereof. Adhere
to all prescripts. Support Supervisor and Manager Placing of orders for both
capital and minor assets Capture of asset receipts, donations, disposals etc.
Request BAS / LOGIS reports. Handle write-offs and filing of source
documents. Handle telephonic and written enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr QJ Vaughan Tel No: (021) 377 4363
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a competency test. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post. As directed by the Department of Public Service
and Administration, applicants must note that further checks will be conducted
once they are shortlisted and that their appointment is subject to positive
outcomes on these checks, which include security clearance, qualification
verification, criminal records and previous employment.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/183 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL INPATIENTS)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Beaufort West Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Registration with Professional council: Registration
with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Staff Nurse with the SANC. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as Staff Nurse
with the SANC. Inherent requirements of the job: Willing to work shifts,
including weekends, public holidays and night duty. Willingness to rotate to
other wards in the facility and to work at the clinic in the Sub-district when
133
needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication and
interpersonal skills. Self- discipline and motivation.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Development and implementation of basic patient
care plans. Provide basic clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of
resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development. Take actions to improve quality of nursing care. Participate in
infection prevention and control.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TW Ntombana Tel No: (023) 414 - 8200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Central Karoo District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/184 : FORENSIC PATHOLOGY OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 2
Chief Directorate: Emergency And Clinical Services Support
(Contract Position up until 31 March 2026)
SALARY : Grade 1: R217 092 per annum
Grade 2: R252 840 per annum
CENTRE : Forensic Pathology Service, Mossel Bay
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Senior Certificate with having achieved
Mathematics, Life Science and/ or Biology as passed subjects. Experience:
Grade 1: None. Grade 2: 10 year's appropriate experience. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Ability to work
under pressure. Ability to work with and lift corpses, (mutilated, decomposed,
infectious viruses, obese). Will be required to deliver testimony in court
proceedings. Willingness to be trained in Forensic Investigation and
Dissection. Be willing on travelling long distances and working standby
duties/overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer and software
literacy in at least MS Word and Excel. Ability to be trained in 4X4 Vehicle
handling. Ability to be trained in photography. Willingness to assist with duties
in an X-ray room. Ability to communicate clearly and discreetly in person and
in writing. Ability to achieve and maintain good interpersonal and working
relations with staff and clients. Ability to interpret and apply policies.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient recovery, storage and processing of deceased. Optimal
control of reports and statements during and after the Forensic Mortuary
process. An effective Forensic autopsy process rendered in accordance with
set standards and guidelines. An effective and efficient Management of
Unknown corpses. An efficient support service to the Manager with regard to
Corporate and Clinical Governance functions of the Forensic Pathology
Laboratory.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Smith Tel No: (044) 813 1890 or email
(Lester.Smith@westerncape.gov.za)
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short-listed
candidates will be subjected to a practical and driver’s test. Candidates will be
subjected to a Security Clearence prior to appointment. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Mossel Bay Forensic
Pathology Laboratory for a period of three months from the date of the dvert,
provided that the job tittle, core function, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
134
POST 34/185 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R192 972 per annum
Grade 2: R227 292 per annum
Grade 3: R270 009 per annum
CENTRE : Metro TB Transitional Care
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP) as a Social Auxiliary Worker. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the South African Council for Social Service Profession
(SACSSP) as a Social Auxiliary Worker. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2:
A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Social Auxiliary Worker after
registration with the SACSSP or No experience as Social Auxiliary Worker after
registration with the SACSSP and successful completion of 2nd academic year
of an appropriate tertiary qualification that allows for registration as a Social
Worker with the SACSSP. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate
experience as Social Auxiliary Worker after registration with the SACSSP or 10
years’ experience after registration as Social Auxiliary Worker with SACSSP
and successful completion of 2nd academic year of an appropriate tertiary
qualification that allows for registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP or
No experience after registration as Social Auxiliary Worker with the SACSSP
and successful completion of 3rd academic year of an appropriate tertiary
qualification that allows for registration as a Social Worker with the SACSSP.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) drivers’ licence.
Willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Brief knowledge of the
social work methods. Ability to work independently and within MDT
environment and be computer literate.
DUTIES : Conduct accurate assessments and provide direct specialized social work
interventions to all inpatients using different methods. Management and
completion of patient related administration in all spheres. To assist with the
smooth-running of social work department through providing necessary
supporting role to other social workers and the head of the department. Attends
and actively participate in MDT meetings through case presentations and
providing feedback when necessary. To liaise with the MDT and partner with
the external stakeholders in linking patients with external services providers.
To participate in events like TB awareness and relevant programs organized
by MDT. Ensure continued professional development by keeping abreast with
the latest developments in your field.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Bhongcoshe Tel No: (021) 508-7400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable for health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Metro TB Centre, for a period of three months
from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/186 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: NQF 3 (Grade 10 or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience and sound knowledge of maintenance and
repairs of electrical, plumbing, mechanical, air-conditioning- and refrigeration
systems and carpentry. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s license. Willingness to do standby and work overtime and after hours,
135
including weekends and public holidays. Physical ability to perform work at
heights and in confined spaces. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
communicate effectively both verbal and written. Ability to handle conflict and
problem-solving situations. Be conversant with the requirements of the
Machinery and Occupational Health and Safety Act. Ability to plan own work
activities, work independently and in a team.
DUTIES : Carry out and assist the Artisan Foreman / Production Artisan with category 1
maintenance: e.g., basic / elementary maintenance, installations, inspections,
and repairs at Health Institutions to ensure compliance with the OHS Act and
other relevant regulations or acts. Ensure an organised and neat workshop /
office space. Attend to Job Requisitions and job cards. Assist with
Administration duties and functions. Adhere to Occupational Health and Safety
instructions. Support to Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GR.Abrahams Tel No: (021) 860-2797 / or
Gregory.Abrahams@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/187 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
Mixed Ward (X1 Post)
Theatre (X2 Posts)
Orthopaedic (X1 Post)
Trauma And Emergency (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with the South African Nursing Council as a Nursing Assistant.
Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/
recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Nursing
Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/ recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant.
Inherent requirement of the job: Ability to work shifts during the day and night,
weekends and public holidays and overtime when required by supervisor.
Willingness to rotate within different Functional Business Units. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge of SANC Regulation which prescribe
nursing practice. The ability to function independently in a multi-disciplinary
team and the ability to direct the team to ensure quality nursing care. Good
interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to deal with conflict situations
and make sound decisions under pressure.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living (physical care). Provide elementary
clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and financial resources.
Maintain professional growth / ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Bruiners Tel No: (023) 348-1104
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for vacancies within Worcester Regional Hospital for a period of 3
months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
136
POST 34/188 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain District Hospital, Female Ward 30B (X2 Posts)
OPD TOP & Infectious Diseases & 10 Bed Day (X1 Post)
Paediatric Ward 30 Beds (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Qualification that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Registration
with Professional council: Registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the
SANC. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, day and
night duty, weekends and public holidays to meet the operational requirements.
Ability to work under pressure and in a multi-disciplinary team context.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Provision of Quality Nursing Care to health
care users. Appropriate experience in a Health environment.
DUTIES : Provide basic nursing care. Provide elementary clinical nursing care. Assist
patients with activities of daily living which include Patient Hygiene, Nutritional
Status, Mobility and elimination needs. Maintaining professional growth,
Ethical Standards and Self-development. Record keeping. Support to
supervisor and colleagues by team participation. Maintain a degree of
professionalism in the execution of duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R Geswindt Tel No: (021) 377-4410
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status). The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within Mitchell’s Plain Hospital, for a period of three months from the
date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/189 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Elsies River CHC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Registration
with Professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with SANC as a Nursing
Assistant. Grade 2: A Minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Nursing Assistant with SANC.
Grade 3: A Minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Nursing Assistant with SANC. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work overtime when necessary. Will be
required to work shifts, public holidays, night duty, after hours and weekends.
Willingness to assist in all departments according to operational needs.
Willingness to work in the geographical PHC facilities within the Northern
Tygerberg substructure, when operationally required Ability to work under
pressure. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills and
ability to communicate (written and verbal). Ability to work in them Ulti-
137
disciplinary team. Enhance patient care through the implementation of SOP’s,
policies and guidelines.
DUTIES : Provide elementary clinical nursing care. Assist patients with activities of daily
living which includes patient hygiene, provide nutrition, assist with mobility and
elimination processes. Monitor patient vital signs and report any abnormal
findings. Reporting on patient safety and adverse incidents. Effective utilization
of resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development. Actively participating in in-service training interventions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JJ Heunis Tel No: (021) 931-0211
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status). “The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Metro Health Services, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.” Candidates will be subjected to a practical/oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/190 : CHILD MINDER (GENERAL CLEANING & CRECHE SERVICES) (X2
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Child
Care Certificate. Experience: Appropriate experience as a Child Minder.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shift and/or rotation basis.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in MS Office package.
Good interpersonal, supervisory skills Ability to work independently and within
a team Edu care teaching and training skills and the ability to perform child
minding activities Support children’s emotional, social, physical, and cognitive
development. Ability to multitask and overall responsibility for each child.
DUTIES : Provide quality childcare to children at the Lentegeur Hospital Childcare
Centre. Ensure safe supervision for the children between the ages of 1 year
and 5 years. Provide effective communication within and outside the institution.
Respond appropriately to emergencies and report incidents immediately Assist
with feeding, changing, and toilet training routines. Developing a healthy multi-
disciplinary environment. Ensure the development of Children. Provide
Support to Supervisor and other areas of Support Services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Brandt Tel No: (021) 830-2704
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The
pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of three months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/191 : TRADESMANS AID
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 (Std 8) qualification. Experience:
Appropriate experience within the maintenance field and repairs (electrical,
plumbing, mechanical and carpentry). Appropriate experience with handling of
Workshop tools. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver's
138
license. Willingness to travel. Physically fit to do manual labour. Willingness to
work after hours and overtime should the need arise. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to handle tools, parts and materials. Good
interpersonal skills. Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety.
DUTIES : Carry out minor maintenance electrical, carpentry, plumbing, mechanical, air
conditioning and refrigeration task. Assist with repairs and emergency
breakdowns (including after hour's repairs). Assist with the installation of plant,
equipment and alterations. Clear areas where work has been carried out.
Ensure that tools and materials are available when needed. Assist the Artisans
in the execution of their duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GR Abrahams Tel No: (021) 860 2797/or
Gregory.Abrahams@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/192 : FOOD SERVICES AID
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Service
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in a large-scale industrial Food Service Unit. Inherent
requirements of the job: Ability to work overtime, shifts which include weekends
and public holidays when needed. Incumbent must be physically fit to lift heavy
objects and be on their feet the entire day. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of production for normal and therapeutic diets in an Industrial
Foodservice Unit on a large scale. Knowledge of hygiene, occupational health,
HACCP and safety principles.
DUTIES : Assist in the receipt and storage of all provisions and stock in the foodservice
unit. Pre-preparation and production of all normal and therapeutic diets.
Weighing, dishing and distribution of food to various wards. Cleaning of all
areas, utensils and equipment in the Food Service Department. Adhere to
Health and Safety prescripts, elementary control measures and standard
operational procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Potgieter Tel No: (021) 940 4575
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/193 : GENERAL WORKER STORES (CSSD)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Communication
Skills. Ability to function independently, as well as in a multi-disciplinary team.
Good interpersonal skills. Ability to perform physically demanding tasks.
DUTIES : Assist the Admin Clerk with the handling of stock. Receive and issue goods.
Deliver store stock to end-users and Rotate store stock (first in, first out). Clean
various stores and non-storage areas within the main stores. Answer telephone
and handle internal queries. Assist in other CSSD areas and Theatre stores
when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R. Sutcliffe Tel No: (021) 404 2092
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
139
of the advertised post. Shortlisted candidates may be subjected to a practical
test as part of the recruitment process.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/194 : PORTER (DENTAL NURSING SUPPORT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Oral Health Centre, Tygerberg/Mitchell’s Plain
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience as a porter in a health facility. Inherent requirement of
the job: Ability to handle heavy objects. Ability to report for duty at 06h00.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication and interpersonal
skills.
DUTIES : Accompany walking patients and transport sitting/non-walking patients per
trolley or wheelchair between wards and treatment areas. Assist with the
transfer of patients to beds/trolleys and vice versa. Direct or accompany visitors
to various destinations. Carry medical and other documentation (patient files,
reports, etc) to wards/treatment and other admin areas. Deliver specimens to
laboratories and ensure a safe and hygienic work environment. Transport blood
and blood products. Act as a reliever for messenger when needed.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Z Karoodien Tel No: (021) 937-3015
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates will be subjected to a written and oral assessment. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/195 : LAUNDRY AID
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Wesfleur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in laundry services. Inherent requirement of the job:
Willingness to do manual labour (heavy linen bags) and assist in other
departments when required. Able to handle heavily soiled linen containing
human excretions and blood. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication skills. Ability to accept accountability and responsibility and to
work independently and unsupervised. Knowledge of Laundry Services.
DUTIES : Collecting, Sorting and Weighing of dirty, soiled linen. Machine & Equipment
operation, sluicing of linen. Linen Stock Control and management of Linen
Room. Execution of Occupational Health and Safety prescripts and general
environmental safety and hygiene. Support to supervisor and willingness to
rotate in other departments.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Cupido Tel No: (021) 571 8040; Email:
Ricardo.Cupido@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applications will
be considered for vacancies within Wesfleur Hospital, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/196 : HOUSEHOLD AID
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : False Bay Hospital
140
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience: Appropriate
general hospital cleaning experience. Inherent requirement of the job: The
ability to do physical tasks and operate heavy duty cleaning and household
equipment. Render a shift service on weekends and public holidays, on day
and night duty and Over-time when required. Rotate in different departments
according to operational needs and requirements. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal skills. Knowledge of correct methods of
handling and disposal of refuse/waste products and adherence to policy and
cleaning practices.
DUTIES : Responsible for cleaning duties, including sweeping, dusting, mopping,
scrubbing, polishing, refuse handling and maintenance of general neatness
and hygiene of the area. Responsible for cleaning and safe-keeping of
machinery. Adhering to safety precautions and ensure adherence to
occupational health and safety policies. Render assistance to the supervisor
with general housekeeping duties such as control of cleaning and household
equipment, care of linen and serving of patients meals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Tyutu Tel No: (021) 832-5206
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/197 : GROUNDSMAN
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : False Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience:
Appropriate hospital experience in gardening and grounds maintenance.
Inherent requirement of the job: Perform heavy manual labour including lifting,
using various gardening and grounds maintenance tools and power equipment
safely and efficiently. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal
skills. Ability to function independently as well as in a team set up. Good written
and communication skills.
DUTIES : To deliver an effective cleaning and maintenance service on the grounds of the
hospital. Maintenance of terrain, gardens and lawns. Apply and maintain
quality and risk. Maintain apparatus and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Shoosmith Tel No: (021) 832-5211
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/198 : MEDICAL OFFICER: GRADE 1 TO 3 (ANAESTHESIA) (20 SESSIONS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(6 Month Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R482 per hour
Grade 2: R550 per hour
Grade 3: R636 per hour
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with Professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom is not required to perform Community
141
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect
of SA qualified employees. A minimum of11 years relevant experience after
registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver's license and willingness to travel.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to render high quality Anaesthesia
service and appropriate experience in Anaesthesia at District level – including
level 1 & 2 Obstetrics. Strong ethical principles, relevant clinical &counselling
skills, computer literacy, interpersonal skills, organisational skills, strong
administrative skills, strong team dynamics, communications skills, conflict
resolution skills and excellent skills in teaching and training at undergraduate
and postgraduate level. Excellent clinical expertise and clinical governance.
Team ethos, good leadership, communication, interpersonal, analytical and
problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : Clinical service delivery in Anaesthesia, including pre-operative assessments,
general, regional &local anaesthesia, in-patient referrals for risk assessments
and selected relevant procedural interventions in the wards and the Emergency
Centre. Clinical governance in the form of resource stewardship, accurate
medical record keeping, morbidity & mortality reviews and case audits.
Teaching & training activities, including supervision of junior doctors and
participation in the hospital academic program. Systems input and participation
within the Metro East Ecosystem. Contribution to improvement of internal
systems within the Anaesthesia service – both within the hospital and the Metro
East ecosystem. Participation in the wider functions of the Anaesthesia service
within the hospital, both clinical and administrative, where reasonable and
feasible.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Le Roux Tel No: (021) 918 1990
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/199 : CLINICAL TECHNOLOGIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (CARDIOLOGY) (SESSIONAL)
(6 HOURS PER WEEK) (31 MARCH 2026)
SALARY : Grade 1: R262 per hour
Grade 2: R306 per hour
Grade 3: R358 per hour
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Clinical Technologist: Cardiology. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with HPCSA as a Clinical Technologist: Cardiology. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA in Clinical Technology in
respect of RSA qualified employees. One-year relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA in Clinical Technology in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience
after registration with HPCSA in Clinical Technology in respect of SA qualified
employees. Minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA in Clinical Technology in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South
Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration
with the HPCSA in Clinical Technology in respect of RSA qualified employees.
Minimum of 21 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Clinical Technology in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform community service as required in South Africa.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work independently, without
supervision and work within a group with all levels of staff. Above average
142
academic record, work record and managerial abilities. Appropriate experience
in clinical technology within the filed of cardiology including in-service training
at a registered training facility. Experience in Echocardiography, Cardiac
Catheterization and Cardiac Pacing. Good communication skills (verbal and
written).
DUTIES : Clinical service delivery: Provision of clinical service delivery at specialist level
across the full. To perform high quality and efficient cardiology service by
providing specialized clinical technology support in all areas of non-invasive
and invasive cardiology. Required to work in the various specialized areas in
the unit on a rotational basis (Cardiac catheterization laboratory, pacemaker
clinic, echocardiography laboratory, Holter analysis).
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Govender Tel No: (021) 404 4094/5.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for the post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be
considered for other similar posts within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period
of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
POST 34/200 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL: MEDICINE) (20
HOURS SESSIONS) (31 MARCH 2026)
SALARY : Grade 1: R214 per hour
Grade 2: R261 per hour
Grade 3: R314 per hour
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
Degree/Diploma in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with SANC as Professional Nurse. Registration with Professional council:
Registration with SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job: To rotate to other
departments. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Nursing
Practices, Knowledge of Infection Prevention Control, control measures and
practices. Problem solving, report writing, liaison and facilitation skills. Basic
computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook and use of Internet. Ability to lift
and turn patients, stand for long hours and lift heavy equipment.
DUTIES : Clinical service delivery: Provision of clinical service delivery at specialist level
across the full. Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the
nursing plan (clinical practice or quality patient care). Implement standards,
practices, criteria and indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice).
Practice nursing and health care in accordance with the laws and regulations
relevant to nursing and health care. Maintain a constructive working
relationship with nursing and other stakeholders. Utilise human, material and
physical resources efficiently and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Wulff Tel No: (021) 404 2109
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short-listed
candidates may be subjected to a compulsory competency test. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
143
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 06 October 2025
144