PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 38 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 17 OCTOBER 2025
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge
and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH
IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative
action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied.
Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the
filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment
in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENTS : DEPARTMENT OF SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT: Kindly note that the post
Blended Finance “REF NO: O: BF was advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 37
of 2025 dated 10 October 2025. The correct post name is Officer: Blended Finance “REF
NO: O: BF The closing date is amended from 24 October 2025 to 31 October 2025.
PROVINCIAL ADMNISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE: DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM: Kindly note that the position of Director: Trade &
Investment Promotion, Kimberley Office with Ref No: NCDEDAT/2025/05 advertised in
the Public Service Vacancy Circular 37 dated 10 October 2025 with the closing date of
27 October 2025 is amended. The amendment is as follows: closing date has been
extended to 03 November 2025.
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTH WEST: DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY
SAFETY AND TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT: Kindly note that the positions of Assistant
Director: Change Management and Assistant Director: Operator Licence & Permits:
Reference numbers: 54/2025/2026 and 58/2022/2023 respectively, advertised in the
Public Service Vacancy Circular 37 dated 10 October 2025 with the closing date of 24
October 2025 are amended. as follows: Assistant Director: Change Management: The
posts will be re-advertised and Assistant Director: Operator Licence & Permits: The
correct Reference number is 58/2025/26. Candidates who have already submitted
applications with the initial reference number will not be disqualified. Closing Date: 31
October 2025.
2
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
CORRECTIONAL SERVICES A 04 - 10
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR B 11 - 18
FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT C 19 - 26
HEALTH D 27 - 31
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING E 32 - 43
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT F 44 - 45
LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT G 46 - 51
MILITARY VETERANS H 52 - 53
MINERAL AND PETROLEUM RESOURCES I 54 - 56
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY J 57 - 64
NATIONAL TREASURY K 65 - 77
PLANNING, MONITORING AND EVALUATION L 78 - 79
PUBLIC SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATION M 80 - 81
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT N 82 - 89
SOUTH AFRICAN POLICE SERVICE O 90 - 91
WATER AND SANITATION P 92 - 95
FREE STATE Q 96 - 99
GAUTENG R 100 - 102
KWAZULU NATAL S 103 - 105
LIMPOPO T 106 - 119
MPUMALANGA U 120 - 122
NORTH WEST V 123 - 132
WESTERN CAPE W 133 - 187
3
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONAL SERVICES
APPLICATIONS : National Head Office: Department of Correctional Services, Post
Advertisement Section, Private Bag X136, Pretoria, 0001 OR hand deliver at:
124 WF Nkomo Street, Poyntons Building, Cnr WF Nkomo and Sophie De
Bruyn Street, Pretoria, 0001 (Previous: Cnr Church and Schubart Street) OR
you can email your application to NationalOffice@dcs.gov.za. Contact persons:
Ms N Khumalo Tel No: (012) 305 8589/ (012) 307 2174. Candidates must
comply with the minimum appointment requirements. CV’s should be aligned
to reflect one’s degree of compliance with the advert requirements and
responsibilities. It is the sole responsibility of an applicant to ensure that their
application reaches DCS before the kindly indicate the reference number on
the subject line for emailed applications. The Department of Correctional
Services reserves the right not to fill any of these advertised posts.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025 at 15h45.
NOTE : All costs associated with an application will be borne by the applicant. The
Department of Correctional Services is an equal opportunity employer. The
Department will take into consideration the objectives of Section 195 (1) (i) of
the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996 (Act 108 of 1996) and
the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act 55 of 1998) in filling of these vacancies.
It is our intention to promote representivity in respect of race, gender and
disability through the filling of these positions. In support of this strategy,
applicants need to indicate race, gender and disability status on the application
form/CV. Applicants who have retired from the Public Service with a specific
determination that they cannot be re-appointed or have been declared
medically unfit will not be considered. Please take note that correspondence
will only be conducted with the shortlisted candidates. If you have not been
contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application is unsuccessful. Please do not call the
department to enquire about the progress of your application. Applicants must
note that further checks will be conducted once they are shortlisted and that
their appointment is subject to positive outcomes on these checks, which
include security clearance, security vetting, qualification verification and
criminal records verification. Appointment will be provisional, pending the issue
of a security clearance. If you cannot get a security clearance, your
appointment will be re-considered/possibly terminated. Fingerprints may be
taken on the day of the interview. Applications: Applications must be submitted
on the Z83 form (Public Service application form) obtainable from any Public
Service department and must be completed in full. Only a detailed CV should
be attached to your application form. Only shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified copies not older than 6 months of qualifications and
other related documents on or before the day of the interview. Please send a
complete application for the post you apply for on a pdf format, stating the
correct reference for the position you are interested in. Requirement for valid
driver’s licence is not applicable to applicants with a disability. With regard to
the SMS post, a pre-entry certificate from the National School of Government
(NSG) is required from all applicants prior to appointment. The full details of
the SMS pre-entry course are obtainable on: http://www.thensg.gov.za/training
course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected
to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the
job, the logistics of which will be communicated by the department. Following
the interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in
compliance with the DPSA directive on the implementation of competency-
based assessment). The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tool. Indicate the reference number and position you are applying
for on your application form (Z83) and post OR email your complete application
to the address as indicated below:
4
OTHER POSTS
POST 38/01 : DEPUTY REGIONAL COMMISSIONER
(Re-advertisement, Candidates who previously applied, need to re-apply.)
SALARY : R1 521 414 per annum, all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Free State Northern Cape Ref No: HO 2025/10/01
Western Cape Ref No: HO 2025/10/02
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognized by SAQA in Public
Administration/Behavioural Sciences or equivalent. A certificate for entry into
the Senior Management Services (SMS) obtained from the National School of
Government (NSG) is compulsory and should be submitted prior to
appointment. Five [5] years’ experience at a senior managerial level. Computer
literate. Valid driver’s licence. Required knowledge: Knowledge and
understanding of the South African Criminal Justice System and the
Correctional Services architecture. Understanding of public service policy and
related legislative framework (Public Service Act and Regulations, Public
Finance Management Act and the Correctional Service Act 111 of 1998 as
amended). Competencies And Attributes: Strategic capability and leadership.
Service delivery innovation. Client orientation and customer focus. Financial
management. Change management. People management and empowerment.
Programme and project management. Communication skills (verbal and
written). Problem solving and decision making. Transformation management.
Influencing and impact. Facilitation, conflict management and conceptual skills.
Diversity management. Negotiation skills. Confidentiality. Interpersonal
relations and time management. Accountability. Diplomacy and tact. Policy
development and implementation. Good corporate governance principles.
DUTIES : Manage the coordination of representation of offenders. Oversee the
coordination of Information Technology services. Oversee the rendering of
Communication services. Oversee the coordination of Inspection Services.
Coordinate effective risk management to ensure compliance with the DCS Risk
Management Plan. Provide strategic leadership and direction for the region
and management areas. Management of human resources, finance, assets
and performance information.
ENQUIRIES : National Head Office: Ms N Khumalo Tel No: (012) 305 8589/ (012) 307 2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Services Act
POST 38/02 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SECURITY EVALUATION (NCB4) REF NO: HO
2025/10/03
Directorate: Security Standards and Management
(Re-advertisement, Candidates who previously applied, need to re-apply.)
SALARY : R925 380 per annum, all-inclusive package
CENTRE : National Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Degree/national diploma in behavioural sciences and successful completion of
the Corrections Science Learnership/Basic Training. At least seven (7) years’
relevant experience gained in a supervisory and junior management
production post. Top secret security classification as an added advantage.
Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes: Firearm
skills and the use of relevant security technology. Project and programme
management. Transformation, change, and stakeholder management.
Problem solving, Analysis and service delivery Innovation. Decision making,
people management and empowerment. In depth understanding of safety and
security in a correctional environment. Integrity and honesty. Good
Interpersonal relations, knowledge of the Correctional Services Act, Act 111 of
1998, as amended. Assertiveness, ability to network, diplomacy and tactful.
Resilient, influence and impact.
DUTIES : Development, maintenance and implementation of standards, policies and
policy procedures regulating the management of security information.
Development of manual/tool for the evaluation of security policies. Manage and
evaluate security risks. Conduct investigations of security incidents/breaches.
Liaison with internal and external stakeholders on security evaluation and
assessments. Manage the development and maintenance of a data base on
security information. Analysis and presentation of information. Management of
performance information, finances, human resources and assets.
ENQUIRIES : National Head Office: Ms N Khumalo Tel No: (012) 305 8589/(012) 307 2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Services Act
5
POST 38/03 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CASE MANAGEMENT (NCB4) REF NO: HO
2025/10/04
(Re-advertisement, Candidates who previously applied, need to re-apply.)
SALARY : R925 380 per annum, all-inclusive package
CENTRE : National Head Office: Directorate: Corrections Administration
REQUIREMENTS : Degree/national diploma in behavioural sciences and successful completion of
the Corrections Science Learnership/Basic Training. At least seven (7) years’
relevant experience gained in a supervisory and junior management
production post. Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And
Attributes: Understanding of Public Service policy and legislative framework.
Service delivery and client orientation. Integrity and honesty. Ability to network
and willingness to travel. Applied strategic thinking. Influence and impact.
Financial management, problem solving and decision-making skills. Plan,
organise, lead and control. Change management, team leadership, project
management and presentation skills. Conflict management, report writing,
training and development. Time management, confidentiality, coaching and
mentoring.
DUTIES : Review, develop, enhance & implement systems/tools and procedures in
relation to case administration. Ensure the alignment of the following chapters
of the B- Order with Unit management and the offender rehabilitation path: Unit
management, case management committees, labour, monitors, gratuity,
privileges and disciplinary system. Ensure interpretation and compliance
regarding policy procedures. Deal with enquiries by parliament, media,
practice, NGO’s, politicians, individuals, portfolio committees and regions.
Provide inputs for annual report, budget vote, motions against the department
and media briefings. Monitor progress with case management utilizing
frameworks and action plans. Provisioning of frameworks and tools to regions.
Monthly monitoring of successes/failures per region against set targets.
Monitor performance of labour by offenders. Monthly monitoring of
successes/failures per region against set targets. Monitor compliance with unit
management, including a structured day programme and three (3) meals a day
system. Quarterly monitoring of successes/failures per region against set
targets. Management of performance information, finances, human resources
and assets.
ENQUIRIES : National Head Office: Ms N Khumalo Tel No: (012) 305 8589/(012) 307 2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Services Act
POST 38/04 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CORRECTIONAL CENTRES (NCB4) REF NO: HO
2025/10/05
Directorate: Corrections Administration
(Re-advertisement, Candidates who previously applied, need to re-apply.)
SALARY : R925 380 per annum, all-inclusive package
CENTRE : National Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Degree/national diploma in behavioural sciences and successful completion of
the Corrections Science Learnership/Basic Training. At least seven (7) years’
relevant experience gained in a supervisory and junior management
production post. Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And
Attributes: Understanding of public service policy and legislative framework.
Service delivery and client orientation. Integrity and honesty. Assertiveness.
Ability to network. Willingness to travel. Applied strategic thinking, influence
and impact. Financial management, problem solving, decision-making and
facilitation skills. Plan, organise, lead and control. Change management and
project management. Presentation skills, conflict management and report
writing. Training and development. Time management, confidentiality,
coaching and mentoring.
DUTIES : Develop, review, enhance, implement and monitor corrections policy,
procedures, tools, standards and applicable legislation in relation to admission,
detention and release management. Ensure the alignment of chapters of the
Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) regarding unit management and the
Offender Rehabilitation Path (ORP). Ensure interpretation and compliance
regarding the SOPs and the Offender Rehabilitation Path. Monitoring and
management of overcrowding utilizing frameworks, action plans and
submission of reports to the relevant forum. Deal with enquiries by parliament;
media; practice; NGO's; politicians; individuals; Auditor General; Portfolio
6
Committee on Correctional Services; SCOPA; other departments; Directorates
and Sub-directorates. Provide inputs for quarterly, mid-term and annual reports
and the budget vote. Participate in strategic planning for the Directorate:
Correction Administration. Monitoring implementation of the Correctional
Services Act, 1998 (Act No. 111 of 1998) as amended. Management of
performance information, human resources, finances and assets. Attend
internal and external meetings relating to scope of work.
ENQUIRIES : National Head Office: Ms N Khumalo Tel No: (012) 305 8589/ (012) 307 2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Services Act
POST 38/05 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ACADEMIC SUPPORT REF NO: HO 2025/10/06
Directorate: Core Curriculum
(Re-advertisement, Candidates who previously applied, need to re-apply.)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, all-inclusive package
CENTRE : National Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate degree/national diploma in Human Resource Development or
equivalent qualification. At least 3-5 years management experience in a
supervisory/ junior management at an ASD level in the field of Human
Resource Development or Education Training & Development. Computer
literate. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes: Knowledge of
skills development and related policies, legislation, strategies and programmes
(Skills Development Act, SAQA Act, Skills Development Levies Act, National
Skills Development Strategy, HRD Strategy, ASGISA etc). Knowledge of
policies, legislation and strategy (WPCSA, Correctional Services Act, Strategic
Plan, Code of Conduct etc). Understanding of basic accounting systems,
policies and legislation of Government (PFMA, Supply Chain Management
etc). Knowledge of HR policies and legislation (BCEA, OCHSA, Labour
Relations Act, Disciplinary Code and Procedure etc). Knowledge of HRD or
Education, Training and Development practice. Ability to develop training or
learning programmes. Facilitation and presentation skills. Project
management, communication, marketing, report writing, generic management,
analytical and negotiation skills. Assertiveness, decisiveness, customer service
orientation, initiative, honesty and integrity. Emotional Intelligence.
DUTIES : Alignment of training programmes with relevant unit standards and
development of learning materials. Management of needs analysis process to
determine required competencies. Identification of relevant unit standards and
qualifications related to the envisaged training programmes. Coordinate the
implementation of learning material related specific training interventions.
Manage the implementation of theoretical and experiential learning phases.
Ensure that RPL and appeal procedures are established. Coordinate the
monitoring and evaluation of all relevant training interventions. Manage finance
and supply chain management matters in the directorate at head office.
Establish and maintain communication and marketing systems for the
directorate. Ensure the availability of external and internal training
providers/facilitators for specific interventions. Ensure consultation with
relevant internal stakeholders (unions) and line functionaries on matters of
mutual interest. Conduct benchmarking exercise with international best
practices. Manage the implementation of compulsory orientation and induction
programme (on-boarding) in the department and facilitate the verification
process. Management of performance information, finances, human resources
and assets.
ENQUIRIES : National Head Office: Ms N Khumalo Tel No: (012) 305 8589/ (012) 307 2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Services Act
POST 38/06 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PERFORMANCE MONITORING AND REPORTING
REF NO: HO 2025/10/07
Directorate: Strategic Planning Management
(Re-advertisement, Candidates who previously applied, need to re-apply.)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : National Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Degree or diploma in Public Administration, Business Administration or
equivalent qualification. At least 3-5 years junior management experience in
monitoring and reporting at Assistant Director level, exposure to strategic
management and auditing. Computer literate. (Advanced computer literacy in
Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint) and valid driver’s license.
7
Competencies And Attributes: Interpersonal skills. Advanced facilitation and
presentation skills. Analytical skills. Advanced report writing skills. Problem
solving skills. Integrity and honesty. Applied strategic thinking. Assertiveness.
Ability to network. Willingness to travel and work irregular hours. This position
requires an outstanding ability to exercise flexibility and prioritization skills to
be able to accept and react to evolving planning and reporting contexts.
Innovative and proactive. Ability to take initiative and offer leadership. S/he
must demonstrate timely decision making and extensive judgment in
monitoring and reporting. In-depth knowledge of reporting prescripts and
requirements of national government. In-depth knowledge of planning,
monitoring, evaluation and reporting processes. In-depth knowledge and
understanding of the DPME EQPR system. In-depth knowledge and
understanding of the Public Finance Management Act, Government-Wide
Monitoring and Evaluation Framework (DPME Guidelines), National Treasury
Regulations, Framework for Strategic Plans and Annual Plans. Knowledge of
Public Service Act and Public Service Regulations (PSR).
DUTIES : Develop, support implementation and maintain strategies, systems, guidelines,
standard operating procedures and templates for institutional monitoring and
reporting of performance. Review and upgrade the application of developed
institutional monitoring tools to ensure continuous relevance. Manage and
support application and adherence to government-wide and institutional
monitoring and reporting requirements. Coordinate the development of the
department’s quarterly performance reports. Report on policy, budget and
strategy alignment. Compile departmental quarterly and annual performance
reports for submission to the Management Committee, Executive Authority,
National Treasury, DPME, Auditor General, Audit Committee and Parliament.
Coordinate the development of the departmental Annual Report, Mid-Term
Report and End-Term Report. Conduct verification and validation of planned
and reported performance for the quarterly and annual performance reports.
Manage process of feedback on verification and validation outcomes to
management for improved performance. Compile the departmental Annual
Report, Mid-Term Report and End-Term Report. Interpret and support
understanding, application and development of internal systems and
processes for the monitoring and reporting of performance information. Provide
capacity building and technical support on the institutional performance
monitoring and reporting. Perform secretariat functions at the National
Management Quarterly Performance Review Sessions on a quarterly basis.
Develop and facilitate the departmental monitoring & reporting systems for
performance auditing and coordinate all responses relating to internal and
external audits. Support functionality of the departmental performance
management systems on SharePoint. Monitor and report on the
implementation of the departmental Annual Operational Plans, as well as
budgetary outputs and deliverables. Develop presentations for the governance
structures and Parliament. Use monitoring performance lessons to support
improvement of departmental strategic and annual performance plans
development. Participate, support and provide monitoring and reporting
guidance to strengthen functionality of operational and management structures
for efficient performance. Research and study best practices in monitoring and
reporting and adapt it to departmental environment. Management of
performance information, finances, human resources and assets.
ENQUIRIES : National Head Office: Ms N Khumalo Tel No: (012) 305 8589/ (012) 307 2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Services Act
POST 38/07 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING: MATERNAL/ CHILD AND YOUTH
HEALTH REF NO: HO 2025/10/08
Directorate: HIV and AIDS (Communicable Diseases)
(Re-advertisement, Candidates who previously applied, need to re-apply.)
SALARY : R755 355 per annum
CENTRE : National Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification i.e. degree/diploma in Nursing or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council as
a Professional Nurse and a post basic nursing qualification, with a duration of
at least one (01) year, accredited with SANC in one of their specialties referred
to in the OSD for Professional Nurses. Current registration with the South
African Nursing Council as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 8 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
8
Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least 3 years of the period referred
to above must be appropriate/recognizable experience at managing or
coordinating mental health care issues, maternal, child and youth health. A
valid driver’s license. Computer literate. Competencies And Attributes: Policy
and procedure design and development. Programme management. Monitoring
and evaluation. National standard setting. Resource management. Nursing
statutes and other relevant legal frameworks. Communication. Interpersonal
skills. Research. Liaison and networking. Coordination. Facilitation. Problem
solving. Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Design, develop, monitor and review policies, programmes and guidelines for
special categories i.e. women, children, adolescents, youth, geriatrics, inmates
with disabilities and mental health care users (including forensic mental health
care). Provide a comprehensive package of preventive, promotive, curative
and rehabilitative services for special categories. Facilitate audit on quality of
clinical records pertaining to the provision of clinical care to special categories.
Reporting on indicators and programme performance for special categories.
Develop and review relevant Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
material for special categories programmes and services. Utilize resources
efficiently and effectively. Maintain a constructive working relationship with
nursing and other stakeholders. Execute the responsibilities of officials as
stipulated in section 45 of the Public Finance Management Act 101 of 1999 as
amended. Management of performance information, finances, human
resources and assets.
ENQUIRIES : National Head Office: Ms N Khumalo Tel No: (012) 305 8589/ (012) 307 2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Services Act
POST 38/08 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MONITORING SERVICES (NCB3) REF NO: HO
2025/10/09
Directorate: Parole and Probation (Parole Supervision)
(Re-advertisement, Candidates who previously applied, need to re-apply.)
SALARY : R506 667 per annum
CENTRE : National Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Recognised three (3) year degree/national diploma in Behavioural Sciences.
At least five (5) years relevant experience gained in a supervisory post (NCB
2). Top secret security classification will be an added advantage. Successful
completion of Corrections Science Learnership/Basic Training. Computer
literate. Valid Driver’s Licence. Competencies And Attributes: Knowledge of the
Correctional Services Act, Act 111 of 1998, as amended. Knowledge of the
relevant sections of the Criminal Procedure Act 51/1977. Networking/liaison
with internal and external stakeholders. Report writing, negotiation, facilitation,
presentation and research skills. Communication, listening, problem solving
and analytical skills. Project management, decision making, people
management and empowerment. Integrity, honesty and confidentiality. Good
interpersonal relations and stakeholder management.
DUTIES : Conduct research with regard to national and international tendencies of
monitoring services for probationers and parolees. Study research on
monitoring services for probationer and parolees’ projects in other countries.
Attend conferences and workshops with regard to monitoring services for
parolees and probationers. Formulation of legislation, regulations, policy,
manuals and guidelines with regard to monitoring services for parolees and
probationers. Revise legislation, regulations, policy, manuals and guidelines
with regard to monitoring services for parolees and probationers. Deal with
enquiries from regions, parliament or any other person or institution. Provide
inputs with regard to the annual report, interpretation of legislation, regulations,
policy, manuals or guidelines. Manage the marketing of monitoring services for
parolees and probationers. Management of performance information, finances,
human resources and assets.
ENQUIRIES : National Head Office: Ms N Khumalo Tel No: (012) 305 8589/ (012) 307 2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Services Act
POST 38/09 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: ADMINISTRATION TRAINING REF
NO: HO 2025/10/10
Directorate: Functional Management and Training
(Re-advertisement, Candidates who previously applied, need to re-apply.)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
9
CENTRE : National Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate degree/national diploma in Human Resource Management or
equivalent qualification and 3-5 years relevant experience in HRD. Computer
literate. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes: Knowledge of
skills development and related policies, legislation, strategies and programmes
(Skills Development Act, SAQA Act, Skills Development Levies Act, National
Skills Development Strategy, HRD Strategy, ASGISA etc). Knowledge of DCS
policies, legislation and strategy (WPCSA, Correctional Services Act, DCS
Strategic Plan, Code of Conduct etc). Understanding of basic accounting
systems, policies and legislation of Government (PFMA, Supply Chain
Management etc). Knowledge of HR policies and legislation (BCEA, OCHSA,
Labour Relations Act, Disciplinary Code and Procedure etc). Knowledge of
HRD or Education, Training and Development practice. Facilitation and
presentation skills. Ability to develop training or learning programmes. Project
management, communication and marketing skills. Report writing and
database management. Generic management, analytical and negotiation
skills. Customer service orientation, tolerant and initiative. Honesty and
integrity.
DUTIES : Facilitate the procurement of goods and services and coordinate travel
arrangements for the directorate. Administer leave register and other
administrative activities. Maintenance of duty and leave register. Checking and
submitting leave applications. Collecting and distributing of salary advices.
Record keeping for inspections. Processing of miscellaneous personnel
information of the directorate. Obtaining and distributing of relevant
information. Typing, copying and binding of documents and training material.
Care of classified documents. Organize and coordinate meetings for the
directorate. Administer and consolidate the allocation of funds. Assist in the
management of state funds under supervision. Estimating and budgeting of
requirement within the directorate. Allocate funds and compiling of spending
plan. Reporting of surpluses/ shortfalls and shifting of funds. Processing of
claims of staff. Payment of monies owed by the state.
ENQUIRIES : National Head Office: Ms N Khumalo (012) 305 8589/ (012) 307 2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Services Act
POST 38/10 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: LOGISTICS AND STORES REF NO: HO
2025/10/11 (X2 POSTS)
(Re-advertisement, Candidates who previously applied, need to re-apply.)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Zonderwater Training College
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three (3) year degree or national diploma in Logistics/Supply
Chain Management/Purchasing Management or equivalent qualification. 2-3
years’ experience in a supply chain management environment. Computer
literate. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes: Problem-solving,
decision making and facilitation skills. Plan, organize, lead and control.
Presentation, conflict management, training and communication skills. Time
management, confidentiality, coaching and mentoring skills. Knowledge of
LOGIS system. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act, 1999 and
Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of tender process. Service delivery and
client orientation. Integrity and honesty. Assertiveness, influence and impact.
Ability to network.
DUTIES : Implementation and administer Supply Chain Management, Transport, LOGIS
and Procurement policies. Monitor and control incoming and out-going stock.
Manage the administration of warehouse, transit and fleet. Oversee the asset
verification and logistical processes, asset reconciliations and inventory
balancing. Administer reconciliation between BAS and LOGIS. Facilitate
logistical training. Placement of orders. Generate procurement suppliers.
Administer quotations and bids. Conduct enquiries on orders and commitments
placed. Maintain and update database of prospective suppliers. Updating of
asset register, asset balancing and reconciliation. Conducting monthly spot
checks. Annual asset verification and asset disposals. Management of
resources.
ENQUIRIES : National Head Office: Ms N Khumalo Tel No: (012) 305 8589/ (012) 307 2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Services Act
10
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 00:00 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate the correct
job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your email.
Use the correct email address associated with the post. JPEG
(picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Failure to do so, your
application will be disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference
number must be submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate’s
suitability based on the posts’s technical and generic requirements. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) Your
information will be used soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. If you
have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below
advertised post(s). The successful candidate will be required to enter into an
employment contract and a performance agreement. The Department is an
equal opportunity affirmative action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of
the Department shall inform the employment decision. It is the Department’s
intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of
this post(s)
OTHER POSTS
POST 38/11 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LABOUR ACTIVATION PROGRAMMES REF NO:
HR4/4/8/961
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Free State
11
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification in Public Administration/ Public Management/
Business Administration/ Business Management/ Development studies/ Social
Sciences. Five (5) years’ experience of which three (3) must be functional
experience in Labour Activation Programmes/ Employment Programmes/
Enterprise Development/ Entrepreneurial/ and two (2) years’ experience at
managerial level. Valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Departmental and the
Funds Policies and Procedures, Public Financial Management Act (PFMA),
Unemployment Insurance and Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act, All
Labour legislations, Project Management, Batho Pele Principles. Skills:
Planning and Organising, People Management, Conflict Management,
Analytical, Problem Solving, Communication and ability to think strategically,
Computer Literacy, Skills development Act, Event Management and Contract
Management, Coordination, Project Management.
DUTIES : Manage and Monitor Labour Activation projects receiving funding. Engage with
relevant stakeholders on labour Activation Programmes that will benefit UIF
beneficiaries. Identify province specific interventions to be funded for Labour
Activation. Participate in Advocacy Campaigns to create awareness on Labour
Activation Programmes in cooperation with the Unit Communications within the
Fund and the Provincial Office. Manage resources (Human, Finance,
Equipment/Assets).
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Zama at 072 984 0837
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein, 9300
Or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: jobs-fs10@labour.gov.za
POST 38/12 : PRINCIPAL COID EMPLOYERS AUDITOR REF NO: HR 4/4/6/01
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Limpopo
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) as recognized by SAQA in Financial
Accounting/ BCOM Accounting/ Internal Auditing. A valid driver’s license. Four
(4) years functional experience in Compliance Management/ Auditing/
Accounting/ Inspections and Enforcement Environment, of which two (2) years
at a supervisory level. Knowledge: Analysing & Interpreting Information (Data
Analytics), Knowledge of relevant regulations, laws and legislations, Financial
Risk Management and Internal Controls, Department policies and procedures,
Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Batho Pele Principles, Compensation of
Occupational and Injury Disease Act (COIDA), Public Service Regulations,
OHS Act and Regulations, Inspector Appointment Certificate, Inspectors Card,
Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA), Promotion of Access to Personal Information Act (PAIA),
Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA), Labour Relations Act (LRA),
Generally Recognized Accounting Principles (GRAP), Extensive knowledge of
auditing principles. Skills: Analysing & Interpreting Information (Data Analytics),
Analysing and Interpreting of Financial Statements, Employer Assessment and
Auditing, Revision of Assessment, Coaching and mentoring, Conflict
Management, Critical and Innovative Thinking, Inspire Commitment, People
Management, Performance and oversight, Quality Assurance, Risk
Management, Service Delivery Innovation, Stakeholder Development &
Relations, Programme/ Project Planning & Management, Monitoring and
assurance, Research and Development, Advanced use of computer systems
and software.
DUTIES : Manage the implementation of SOPs” s and COIDA employer audit service
enforcement strategy. Manage the inspection and audits of the employers in
relation to COIDA. Manage and coordinate advocacy campaigns on COIDA.
Manage resources of the section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. TE Maluleke Tel No: (015) 290 1768
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X9368, Polokwane, 0700 Or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane or Email address: CFJobs-
LP@labour.gov.za
POST 38/13 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: IT AND OFFICE SERVICE REF NO: HR 4/4/8/960
(Re-advertisement)
SALARY : R468 549 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Free State
12
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant 3 years’ qualifications in Business/ Public Administration/ Public
Management/ Financial Management/ Facilities Management/ Property
Management and Real Estate Management. Two (2) years Supervisory
experience. Two (2) years functional experience in administration environment.
Driver’s License. Knowledge: Relevant Departmental policies and procedures.
Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Batho Pele Principles. Minimum
Information Security Standard. Archives Records. National Archives and
Records Service. Safety and Security. Accommodation procedures. Damage
and Loss control Skills: Communication. Interpersonal relations. Decision-
making. Problem solving. Presentation. Conflict management. Computer
Literacy.
DUTIES : Manage the office accommodation and maintenance operations for the
Province. Facilitate the administration functions on security services within the
Province. Manage and monitor effective records management services in the
Province. Monitor and ensure that all ITC equipment is operational.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Tokwe Tel (051) 505 6204
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein, 9300
Or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: jobs-fs4@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Free State
POST 38/14 : MPLOYMENT SERVICE PRACTITIONER II PES REF NO: HR4/4/5/83
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Richmond - KZN
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year relevant qualification in Social Science/Public Administration.
Valid driver’s license. Knowledge: ILO Conventions, Social Plan Guidelines,
Human Resource Management, Financial Management. Skills: Planning and
organising, Communication Skills, Computer, Analytical, Presentation,
Interpersonal, Report writing, Leadership, Networking.
DUTIES : Identify and process employability needs for job seekers. Network with
stakeholders to acquire placement opportunities, Process requests for labour
migration and advice on the availability of skills. Process applications for
registration of PEA’s and TEA’s. Supervise the administration of employer
services at the Labour Centre.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Mtolo Tel No: (033) 212 2768
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Richmond Labour Centre, PO Box 852, Richmond 3780 Or
hand deliver at 60 Shepstone Street, Richmond. For Online Application: Jobs-
KZN19@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, KwaZulu-Natal
POST 38/15 : OHS INSPECTOR: MECHANICAL ENGINEERING REF NO: HR4/4/5/82
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Richmond - KZN
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus a 3 year recognised qualification in the relevant field, ie.
Mechanical Engineering, Mechatronic Engineering. Valid Driver’s licence.
Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures, Occupational Health and
Safety Act, as amended, Regulations (21), South African National Standards
(Codes)- incorporated Codes become regulations, Compensation for
Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act, Unemployment Insurance Act. Skills:
Planning and organizing, Communication skills, Computer literacy, Facilitation
skills, Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling skills, Negotiation skills, Problem
solving skills, Interviewing skills, Presentation skills, Innovation skills, Analytical
skills, Verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. To confirm registration of with the
Unemployment Insurance Act and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act. Plan, investigate and finalise independently incidents and
complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and the relevant regulations and
enforce as and when necessary, appear in Court as a State witness. Plan and
conduct allocated proactive inspections as per schedule to monitor compliance
with the relevant labour legislation including compiling and consolidating
reports emanating from such inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy
campaigns on all labour legislation independently, analyse impact thereof,
consolidate and compile report. Contribute at a higher level to planning,
13
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including,
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Mtolo Tel No: (033) 212 2768
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Richmond Labour Centre, PO Box 852, Richmond 3780 Or
hand deliver at 60 Shepstone Street, Richmond. For Online Application: Jobs-
KZN19@labour.gov.za
POST 38/16 : OHS INSPECTOR: CIVIL ENGINEERING REF NO: HR4/4/5/81
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Kokstad - KZN
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus a 3-year recognised qualification in the relevant field, ie.
Civil Engineering/Construction. Valid Driver’s licence. Knowledge:
Departmental policies and procedures, Occupational Health and Safety Act, as
amended, Regulations (21), South African National Standards (Codes)-
incorporated Codes become regulations, Compensation for Occupational
Injuries and Diseases Act, Unemployment Insurance Act. Skills: Planning and
organizing, Communication skills, Computer literacy, Facilitation skills,
Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling skills, Negotiation skills, Problem solving
skills, Interviewing skills, Presentation skills, Innovation skills, Analytical skills,
Verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. To confirm registration of with the
Unemployment Insurance Act and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act. Plan, investigate and finalise independently incidents and
complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and the relevant regulations and
enforce as and when necessary, appear in Court as a State witness. Plan and
conduct allocated proactive inspections as per schedule to monitor compliance
with the relevant labour legislation including compiling and consolidating
reports emanating from such inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy
campaigns on all labour legislation independently, analyse impact thereof,
consolidate and compile report. Contribute at a higher level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including,
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Ngqoza Tel No: (039) 201 0501
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Kokstad Labour Centre, PO Box 260, Kokstad 4700 Or hand
deliver at 59 Hope Street, Kokstad. For Online Application: Jobs-
KZN15@labour.gov.za
POST 38/17 : PRINCIPAL PERSONNEL OFFICER: HRO REF NO: HR4/25/10/01HO
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF6)/ Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF7) in Human Resources Management. One (1) year functional experience
in Human Resources Management. Knowledge: All labour legislation,
Departmental policies and procedures, Departmental guidelines and
directives, Public service regulations, Batho Pele Principles, PERSAL, CORE.
Skills: Computer literacy, Planning and organising, Time management,
Innovative, Communication, Interviewing, Listening, Interpersonal, Accuracy,
Data capturing, Problem solving, Supervisory.
DUTIES : Administer Recruitment and Selection processes within the Department.
Administer Service Benefits of employees such as leave, service termination
and housing. Handle human resource administration enquiries. Supervise all
the resources of the division.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Z Mdebuka Tel No: (012) 309 4830
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. or email: Jobs-
HQ12@Labour.gov.za
POST 38/18 : UIF CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER (X454 POSTS)
(Re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied must re-apply)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
14
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Barberton Ref No: HR4/4/7/200 (X16 Posts)
Labour Centre: Bethal Ref No: HR4/4/7/201 (X16 Posts)
Labour Centre: Morgenzon Satellite Ref No: HR4/4/7/202 (X12 Posts)
Labour Centre: Carolina Ref No: HR4/4/7/203 (X15 Posts)
Labour Centre: Badplaas Satellite Ref No: HR4/4/7/204 (X12 Posts)
Labour Centre: Eerstehoek Ref No: HR4/4/7/205 (X16 Posts)
Labour Centre: Ermelo Ref No: HR4/4/7/206 (X14 Posts)
Labour Centre: Breyton Satellite Ref No: HR4/4/7/207 (X12 Posts)
Labour Centre: Lothair Satellite Ref No: HR4/4/7/207 (X12 Posts)
Labour Centre: Malelane Ref No: HR4/4/7/208 (X9 Posts)
Labour Centre: Komatipoort Satellite Ref No: HR4/4/7/209 (X12 Posts)
Labour Centre: KwaMhlanga Ref No: HR4/4/7/210 (X10 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mbibane Satellite Ref No: HR4/4/7/211 (X12 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mdutjana Satellite Ref No: HR4/4/7/212 (X11 posts)
Labour Centre: Mokobola Satellite Ref No: HR4/4/7/213 (X12 Posts)
Labour Centre: Siyabuswa Satellite Ref No: HR4/4/7/214 (X12 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mashishing Ref No: HR4/4/7/215 (X14 Posts)
Labour Centre: Waterval Boven Satellite Ref No: HR4/4/7/216 (X10 Posts)
Labour Centre: Middelburg Office Ref No: HR4/4/7/217 (X8 Posts)
Labour Centre: Belfast Satellite- Ref No: HR4/4/7/218 (X10 Posts)
Labour Centre: Hendrina Satellite Ref No: HR4/4/7/219 (X10 Posts)
Labour Centre: Machadodorp Satellite Ref No: HR4/4/7/220 (X12 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mbombela Ref No: HR4/4/7/221 (X4 Post)
Labour Centre: Hazyview Satellite Ref No: HR4/4/7/222 (X12 Posts)
Labour Centre: Whiteriver Satellite Ref No: HR4/4/7/223 (X12 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mkhondo Ref No: HR4/4/7/224 (X16 Posts)
Labour Centre: Amersfoort Satellite Ref No: HR4/4/7/225 (X12 Posts)
Labour Centre: Volksrust Ref No: HR4/4/7/226 (X17 Posts)
Labour Centre: Sabie Ref No: HR4/4/7/227 (X15 Posts)
Labour Centre: Graskop Satellite Ref No: HR4/4/7/228 (X12 Posts)
Labour Centre: Casteel Satellite Ref No: HR4/4/7/229 (X13 Posts)
Labour Centre: Secunda Ref No: HR4/4/7/230 (X11 Posts)
Labour Centre: Leandra Satellite Ref No: HR4/4/7/231 (X12 Posts)
Labour Centre: Standerton Ref No: HR4/4/7/232 (X14 Posts)
Labour Centre: Balfour Ref No: HR4/4/7/233 (X12 Posts)
Labour Centre: Emalahleni Ref No: HR4/4/7/234 (X1 Posts)
Labour Centre: Delmas Satellite Ref No: HR4/4/7/235 (X10 Posts)
Labour Centre: Ogies Satellite Ref No: HR4/4/7/236 (X6 Posts)
Labour Centre: Ga-Nala Satellite Ref No: HR4/4/7/237 (X8 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/Grade 12/Senior Certificate. Knowledge: 0 to 6 months’
experience. Unemployment Insurance Act and Regulations, Unemployment
Insurance Contributions Act, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), Treasury Regulations, Batho
Pele Principles, Department of Labour and UIF Policies and Procedures, UIF’s
Vision and Mission and Values, Customer Care Principles, Departmental
Policies, Procedures and Guidelines. Skills: Interview, Communication (verbal
and written), Computer Literacy, Listening, Interpretation (ability to interpret UI
Act and Contributions Act), Conflict Management, Time Management,
Customer Relations, Analytical, Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, On job
training (operational system).
DUTIES : Provide screening services. Process applications for UIF benefits. Register
payment continuation forms. Provide administrative functions.
Mr N Makgaba Tel No: (013) 712 3066/3353
Mr C Motanyane Tel No: (017) 647 2383/5212
Mr R Mokoena Tel No: (017) 8431077/2111
Mr Rathipe Tel No: (017) 819 7623/3010
Mr Ndimande Tel No: (013) 947 3173/2484/2278
Ms N Ndhlovu Tel No: (013) 790 1528/1682/1359
Mr L Mokhasi Tel No: (013) 235 2368/9
Mr T Milanzi Tel No: (013) 2833600
Ms J Thwala Tel No: (013) 753 2844/5/6 755 2640
Ms L Mashego Tel No: (017) 826 1883/4
Ms L Mashego Tel No: (013) 764 2105/6
Mr S Ndimande Tel No: (017) 631 2585/2652
Mr L Ledwaba Tel No: (017) 712 1351/4809
Mr E Masemola Tel No: (013) 653 3800/656 1422-8
15
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Barberton LC Private Bag X1634,
Barberton, 1300 or hand deliver at Eurika Centre Shop no11, Nourse Street,
Barberton. Or Email: Jobs-BBN@LABOUR.gov.za
Acting Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Bethal LC, Morgenzon
Satellite Private Bag X1029, Bethal,2310 or hand deliver at 9 Vuyisile Mini
Street, Bethal Or Email: Jobs-BTH@LABOUR.gov.za
Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Carolina LC, Badplaas and
Eerstehoek Satellite Private Bag X718 Carolina 1185, Physical Address: No 9
Goud Street, Carolina 1185 Or Email: Jobs-CRL@LABOUR.gov.za
Acting Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Ermelo LC, Breyten and
Lothair Satellite Private Bag X9054 Ermelo 2350,or deliver at Merino Trust
Building, CNR De Jager and Joubert Street, Ermelo or Email: Jobs-
EML@LABOUR.gov.za
Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Malelane LC and Komatipoort
Satellite P.O Box 1112, Sidlamafa,1332.or hand deliver at 1st Floor ABSA
Building, 19 Lorenco Road.Malelane,Or Email: Jobs-MLE@LABOUR.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Kwamhlanga LC, Mbibane,
Mdutjana, Mokobola and Siyabuswa Satellite Private Bag X4016,
KwaMhlanga, 1022 or hand deliver at: Government Complex, Old Parliament,
Building, Nr 6 KwaMhlanga or email: Jobs-KGA@LABOUR.gov.za
Acting Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Mashishing LC and
Waterval Boven Satellite Private Bag X20081, Mashishing, 1120 or hand
deliver at 51 De Klerk Street, Mashishing or Email: Jobs-
LDB@LABOUR.gov.za
Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Middelburg LC, Belfast, Hendrina
and Machadodorp Satellite Private Bag X251833, Middelburg, 1050 or deliver
at Emily Hobhouse Building, 175 Cowen Ntuli Street, Middelburg. Or Email:
Jobs-MDB@LABOUR.gov.za
The Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Mbombela LC, Hazyview and
Whit River Satellite Private Bag X 11298, Mbombela,1200. Or hand deliver at:
Standard Bank Building, 29 Brown Street, Mbombela or via Email: Jobs-
MBO@LABOUR.gov.za
For attention Acting Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Mkhondo LC,
Amersfoort and Volksrust Satellite Private Bag X34, Mkhondo, 2380 or hand
deliver at: Balalas Building 42, Kotze Street, Mkhondo. Or Email: Jobs-
PRT@LABOUR.gov.za
For attention Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Sabie LC, Graskop
and Casteel Satellite Private Bag X523, Sabie,1260 or hand deliver at: Old
Spar Centre 10th Avenue Sabie Or Email: Jobs-SBI@LABOUR.gov.za
Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Secunda LC and Leandra Satellite
Private Bag X9057, Secunda, 2302 or hand deliver at 4 Waterson Street,
Sunset Park, Secunda Or Email: Jobs-SCU@LABOUR.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Standerton LC and Balfour
Satellite Private Bag X2001 Standerton 2430 or hand deliver at: 14C Vry Street
Standerton 2430 Or Email: Jobs-STN@LABOUR.gov.za
Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Emalahleni LC, Delmas, Ogies and Ga-
Nala Satellite Private Bag X 7263, Emalahleni, 1035 Or hand delivery to Labour
Building Corner Hofmeyer and Beatty Avenue, Emalahleni or Email: Jobs-
WTB@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 38/19 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (PES)
REF NO: HR/4/4/7/57 (X5 POSTS)
(Re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied must re-apply)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Eerstehoek Ref No: HR4/4/7/245 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Ermelo Ref No: HR4/4/7/246 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Carolina Ref No: HR4/4/7/247 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Sabie Ref No: HR4/4/7/248 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/Grade 12/Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Departmental Policies,
Procedures and Guidelines, Labour Legislation and Regulations, Employment
Services Act, Public Service Act and Regulations, Batho Pele principles. Skills:
Computer Literacy, Communication, Interpersonal, Problem Solving, Listening,
Telephone etiquette, Interviewing, Ability to interpret legislation.
DUTIES : Render registration services of work-seekers on ESSA. Render registration
services of work and learning opportunities on ESSA. Refer work seekers for
Employment Counselling services. Provide administrative support with the
16
placement of work seekers in work and learning opportunities. Render general
administrative duties and participate in advocacy sessions as and when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Mokoena Tel No: (017) 8431077/2111
Mr M Rathipe Tel No: (017) 819 7623/3010
Ms L Mashego Tel No: (013) 764 2105/6
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Carolina and Eerstehoek LC,
Private Bag X718 Carolina 1185 Physical Address: No 9 Goud Street, Carolina
1185 or Email: Jobs-MPU-CSO-PES1@LABOUR.gov.za
Acting Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Ermelo LC, Private Bag
X9054 Ermelo 2350, or deliver at Merino Trust Building, CNR De Jager and
Joubert Street, Ermelo or Email: Jobs-MPU-CSO-PES2@LABOUR.gov.za
For attention Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Sabie LC Private Bag
X523, Sabie,1260 or hand deliver at: Old Spar Centre 10th Avenue Sabie or
Email: Jobs-MPU-CSO-PES4@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 38/20 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT
SERVICES (IES) REF NO: HR/4/4/7/56 (X8 POSTS)
(Re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied must re-apply)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Barberton Ref No: HR4/4/7/238 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Bethal Ref No: HR4/4/7/239 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Carolina Ref No: HR4/4/7/240 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Ermelo Ref No: HR4/4/7/241 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Mkhondo Ref No: HR4/4/7/242 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Sabie Ref No: HR4/4/7/242 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Secunda Ref No: HR4/4/7/243 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Standerton Ref No: HR4/4/7/244 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/Grade 12/Senior Certificate. Knowledge: All relevant Labour
Legislations and Regulations, Related ILO conventions, Public Service
Regulations, Public Service Act, Knowledge of the Departmental Policies,
Procedures and Guidelines, Batho Pele principles. Skills: Interpersonal,
Telephone etiquette, Interviewing, Computer literacy, Communication, Ability to
interpret legislation, Problem solving.
DUTIES : Render services at help desk as the first point of entry within the Registration
Services. Resolve all complaints on IES labour legislations received from
Clients within the scope and dictates of the IES SOP. Render general
administrative duties and participate in advocacy sessions as and when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Makgaba Tel No: (013) 712 3066/3353
Mr C Motanyane Tel No: (017) 647 2383/5212
Mr R Mokoena Tel No: (017) 8431077/2111
Mr Rathipe Tel No: (017) 819 7623/3010
Ms L Mashego Tel No: (017) 826 1883/4
Ms L Mashego Tel No: (013) 764 2105/6
Mr S Ndimande Tel No: (017) 631 2585/2652
Mr L Ledwaba Tel No: (017) 712 1351/4809
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Barberton LC Private Bag X1634,
Barberton, 1300 or hand deliver at Eurika Centre Shop no11, Nourse Street,
Barberton. Or Email: Jobs-MPU-CSO-IES1@LABOUR.gov.za
Acting Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Bethal LC, Private Bag
X1029, Bethal,2310 or hand deliver at 9 Vuyisile Mini Street, Bethal or Email:
Jobs-MPU-CSO-IES2@LABOUR.gov.za
Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Carolina LC, Private Bag X718
Carolina 1185, Physical Address: No 9 Goud Street, Carolina 1185 Email:
Jobs-MPU-CSO-IES3@LABOUR.gov.za
Acting Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Ermelo LC, Private Bag
X9054, Ermelo 2350,or deliver at Merino Trust Building, CNR De Jager and
Joubert Street, Ermelo Or Email: Jobs-MPU-CSO-IES4@LABOUR.gov.za
For attention Acting Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Mkhondo LC,
Private Bag X34 Mkhondo, 2380 or hand deliver at: Balalas Building 42, Kotze
Street, Mkhondo. Or Email: Jobs-MPU-CSO-IES@LABOUR.gov.za
For attention Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Sabie LC Private Bag
X523, Sabie,1260 or hand deliver at: Old Spar Centre 10th Avenue Sabie or
Email: Jobs-MPU-CSO-IES@LABOUR.gov.za
17
Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: Secunda LC, Private Bag X9057,
Secunda, 2302 or hand deliver at 4 Waterson street, Sunset Park, Secunda Or
Email: Jobs-MPU-CSO-IES@LABOUR.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Standerton LC and Balfour
Satellite Private Bag X2001 Standerton 2430 or hand deliver at: 14C Vry Street
Standerton 2430 Or Email: Jobs-MPU-CSO-IES@LABOUR.gov.za
18
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer.
APPLICATIONS : Cape Town, Western Cape, Eastern Cape and Bloemfontein: Must be
submitted to the Director-General, Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the
Environment, The Director: Integrated Human Resource Management, Private
Bag X4390, Cape Town, 8000 or hand-deliver to 63 Strand Street, Cape Town
or can be emailed to the respective email address quoting the reference
number on the subject email.
KwaZulu Natal: Must be hand-deliver to 185 Langalibalele Street, Old Mutual
Building, Pietermaritzburg, 3200
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a signed Z83 form obtainable from any Public
Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae only,
to be considered. All attachments for online application must include an
application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or
attachment, indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the post
on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address associated with
the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, Senior
Certificate, identity document and driver’s license on or before the day of the
interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National
Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. Preference may be given to appointable applicants
from the underrepresented designated groups in terms of the Department’s
equity plan. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence
will be limited to successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be
subjected to screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for
employment, including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status;
Credit worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme.
Furthermore, Shortlisted candidates must provide proof of successful
completion of the course. All candidates shortlisted for the posts will be
subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job. Following the interview and the technical exercise of all
SMS posts, the Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on
the implementation of competency-based assessments. Persons appointed
will be subjected to a security clearance, the signing of performance agreement
and employment contract. The Department reserves the right not to make an
appointment. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after the
closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. By submitting the employment application form, you agree and
consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act
(POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your personal information which you provide
to the DFFE to being processed by the department and its employees, agents,
Cabinet committees, and subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in
accordance with the POPIA of 2013.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the post for the Deputy Director: Forest Based
Enterprises (Pretoria) with Ref No: FOM17/2025 advertised in the Public
Service Vacancy Circular 37 dated 10 October 2025 with the closing date of 03
November 2025 is amended. The amendment is as follows, the centre of the
post is Polokwane, Limpopo.
19
OTHER POSTS
POST 38/21 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EPWP YOUTH PROJECTS IMPLEMENTATION REF
NO: EP26/2025
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) in Training and Development/Developmental
Studies or relevant qualification within the related field as recognised by SAQA.
Five (5) years’ experience in Education, Training and Development (ETD) and
development or relevant field of which three (3) years should be at an
entry/junior managerial level (Assistant Director level or equivalent).
Knowledge of Skills Development act, skills development / training plans,
Employment equity. Skills levies Act and SAQA. Undertaking of skills audit
Environment and legislation. Expanded Public Works programme, integrated
sustainable rural development and urban renewal programme. Financial
management. Project management. Personnel management. Leadership and
Management skills. Coordination skills. Organisational and planning.
Communication skills (written and spoken). Programme and Project
Management. Listening skills. Writing skills. Decision-making skills. Report
writing skills. Organisational skills. Ability to interpret regulation and develop
appropriate policy. Ability to work under extreme pressure. Supervisory
experience and drivers license.
DUTIES : Manage the implementation and reporting of Training, Youth Empowerment
and Contractor Development projects. Manage project contracts. Manage
project management service providers. Lead recruitment of project
participants. Evaluate projects monthly reports. Evaluate and process stipend
payments. Manage invoice payments to service providers. Manage cash-flows
and expenditures. Manage the contract register at a project level. Manage audit
issues at a project level. Conduct project inspections. Ensure project
Occupational Health and Safety Compliance. Manage the initiation and
planning of Training, Youth Empowerment and Contractor Development
projects. Lead the sourcing of projects from project proponents Recommend
project concepts. Conduct feasibility studies. Recommend project for approval
and funding. Develop procurement plan. Lead the sourcing of service providers
to implement projects. Lead the contracts’ vetting process. Manage the
planning of Training, Youth Empowerment and Contractor Development
projects. Conduct briefing sessions with appointed service providers. Lead the
development of business plans and recommend approvals. Evaluate training
plans and recommend approvals. Present final business plans to project
proponents. Ensure project compliance to norms and standards and standard
operating procedures. Manage stakeholders involved in Youth Empowerment
and Contractor Development projects Identification of stakeholders within the
province. Lead partnership engagements with stakeholders in the province.
Introduce new projects to project proponents. Conduct progress review
meeting. Conduct project advisory meetings. Lead service providers briefing
sessions. Manage the close-out procedures for Training, Youth Empowerment
and Contractor Development projects. Facilitate graduation ceremonies.
Evaluate and recommend project completion reports approvals. Verify
competency certificates. Recommend payment of retention fees and project
closure on the reporting system. Compilation and evidence keeping for future
audit purposes.
ENQUIRIES : Nandipha Makwetu at 067 5966 094
APPLICATIONS : EP26-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 38/22 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
CMS20/2025
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) or higher in Human Resource Management relevant
qualification within the related field as recognised by SAQA. Five (5) years’
experience in Human Resource Management with specific reference to
Performance Management, of which three (3) years should be at an
entry/junior managerial level (Assistant Director level or equivalent. Computer
literacy Skills that would include a good working knowledge of Microsoft Office
20
products, especially Microsoft Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, OneDrive, MS
Teams and Word. Knowledge of SMS handbook, Public Service Regulation as
amended, Public Service Act as amended, Collective Agreements, DPSA
directives and other Human Resource Prescripts. Knowledge of administrative
procedures, and project management. Good communication skills (verbal and
written). Experience in PERSAL system. Knowledge of Financial
Administration skills, Supervisory skills, Planning and organizing,
Communication skills both verbal and written, and problem-solving skills,
Presentation skills, Accuracy, thoroughness, and ability to detect errors, Ability
to prioritize and meet deadlines, good working interpersonal skills, Customer
service orientation, and flexibility. Ability to work under pressure, Ability to
delegate, Ability to establish controls and monitor tasks. Ability to work with
difficult persons and to resolve conflict. Willingness to travel. Sense of
responsibility, loyalty and honesty.
DUTIES : Manage and facilitate the PMDS processes of submission of Performance
Agreements, Mid-term assessments, Annual assessments and probation
reports for both members of Senior Management Service (SMS) and non-SMS.
Ensure quality assurance of SMS and non-SMS Performance Agreements,
Mid-term assessments, Annual assessments and probation reports. Administer
SMS and non-SMS moderation processes, manage databases,
implementations on PERSAL, and appoint committees. Effective facilitation of
the implementation of the incentive framework and collective agreements,
including OSD and non-OSD. Ensure that awareness and training sessions on
PMDS are conducted. Manage the administration of the PMDS online system
and other digital platforms. Ensure accurate data capturing, reporting, and
provide reports to Management. Manage dispute resolution or disagreement
process emanating from Performance Agreements, Mid-term assessment,
Annual assessment, and probation reports. Provide technical advice to
stakeholders, and management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Beta, mbeta@dffe.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : CMS20-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 38/23 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT POST REF
NO: FOM15/2025
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma or Degree (NQF 6) in Forestry or relevant qualification within
the related field as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of five (5) years’
experience of which three (3) of them should be at the entry / junior managerial
level (Assistant Director level or equivalent). Extensive experience in Forestry
/ Natural Resources Management / Conservation Management or
Environmental Scientist or related field. Sound understanding of the National
Forests Act, 1998 (Act No 84 of 1998). Knowledge of Forestry and
environmental management sector. Understanding of the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of policy
development and analysis. Excellent Communication (verbal, presentation and
report writing). Ability to work independently and efficiently under pressure. A
valid driver’s license and willing to travel.
DUTIES : Manage, monitor and evaluate the development of policy instruments. Ensure
the development of policies, guidelines and strategies for managing the
administration of the National Forests Act. Manage and coordinate the
legislative review of the National Forests Act and regulations. Ensure
compliance and enforcement of the NFA while advocating co-operative
governance. Manage and build Compliance and Enforcement of the National
Forests Act through training and capacity building. Render support to
Compliance and Enforcement Stakeholder Engagements (e.g. working
groups). Manage capacity building and advisory support. Manage and provide
training on the provisions of the NFA to institutions of higher learning. Support
regions in the implementation of provisions of the National Forests Act. Provide
leadership to the NFA Sub-directorate. Provide advice to senior management
and the legislature, as well as relevant sector bodies, on policies and strategies
relevant to the Sub-directorate. Ensure capacity and development of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Ndou at 0660191221
APPLICATIONS : FOM15-2025@dffe.gov.za
21
POST 38/24 : SCIENTIST PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO: OC29/2025
SALARY : R761 157 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s (BSc) Honours Degree (NQF8) in Physical Oceanography or
relevant equivalent in Science qualification as recognised by SAQA.
Compulsory registration with the SACNASP as a professional scientist.
Relevant three (3) years post qualification experience, with a proven track
record of relevant research and development output, including mentoring.
Proven good knowledge of Physical Oceanography dynamics, processes and
variability. Knowledge of Scientific methodologies and models and to analyse,
interpret large datasets. Ability to conduct basic and applied oceanographic
research. Skills: Decision making, analytical skills, customer focus and
responsiveness, networking and mentoring. Must have good communication
(both verbal and written), and report writing skill. Willingness and ability to go
to sea and/or conduct field work regularly and for extended periods of time.
Prior to commencement of duty, the successful candidate must pass a
compulsory medical examination for seafarers (Section 101 of the SAMSA Act
57 of 1951) in order to undertake research at sea.
DUTIES : Develop and implement methodologies, systems, policies, procedures.
Conduct basic and applied research required to develop and implement
methodologies, policies, systems and procedures. Monitor and evaluate
project performance. Provide scientific, data, advice and information when
requested. Perform scientific analyses and sample processing. Gather and
process in situ and satellite data and samples, and model output as required.
Conduct basic and applied analysis of data and samples as required.
Formulate proposals and compile reports. Conduct research and advance
professional development. Conduct basic and applied physical oceanography
research as required. Participate in research cruises and/or coastal field trips
as required. Perform Environmental Monitoring and Assessment. Investigate
variations and patterns of physical oceanographic dynamics, processes, and
variability by using in situ and satellite data, and additional model outputs as
required. Assess impacts of physical oceanographic dynamics, processes, and
variability on the southern African marine ecosystem. Perform regulatory
functions and administrative tasks. Participate in outreach events, including
public talks, exhibitions, conferences, stakeholder meetings, etc.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Tarron Lamont, tlamont@dffe.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : OC29-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 38/25 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EP NON-INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAMMES
REF NO: EP25/2025
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Environmental Science / Environmental
Management or relevant qualification within the related field as recognised by
SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years in a Project Management role. Knowledge
of Environmental related legislation. Natural resource management. Invasive
alien species management. South African National Standards. Administrative
procedures. Financial management. Project management. Personnel
management. Programme-based natural resource operational planning. Public
Finance Management Act and Treasury Regulations. Human resource and
Statistical analysis Extensive management and technical training in order to
understand operational functioning of the programme. Public Service and
departmental procedures and prescripts. Socio-economic development. The
incumbent should have the following skills; Leadership and Management.
Strategic thinking and planning. Analytical and Systems thinking. Conceptual
thinking, Problem solving, Computer literacy, Communication skills, Technical
writing skills, Report/professional writing, Mentorship skills, Organising skills,
Facilitation skills, Planning skills. Innovative and proactive. Ability to work long
hours voluntarily. Ability to gather and analyse information. Proven leadership
skills. Ability to develop and apply policies. Ability to work independently and in
a team. Good interpersonal relations skills. Ability to work under extreme
pressure. Conflict management and resolution. Ability to organise and plan
under pressure. Ability to collect and interpret information and reports.
DUTIES : Coordinate the implementation of EP Non-infrastructure projects and invasive
alien plant clearing activities within the province. Ensure compliance with EP
22
Non-Infrastructure projects operational standard, procedures and legal
requirements for all projects implemented within the province. Facilitate the
development and review of project operational plans for EP Non-infrastructure
within the province. Facilitate stakeholder engagement to support EP Non-
Infrastructure projects operations within the province.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Makati Tel No: (043) 722 0685
APPLICATIONS : EP25-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 38/26 : ESTATE MANAGER: WOODLANDS& INDIGENEOUS FOREST
MANAGEMENT REF NO: BC23/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : KZN (Nkwezela State Forest)
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Forestry or equivalent qualification within the
related field as recognised by SAQA, coupled with a minimum 3 years relevant
experience in Indigenous Forest management. Knowledge and understanding
of National Forest Act,1998 (Act No. 84 of 1998) and National Veld and Forest
Fire Act, 1998 (Act No.101 of 1998), National Environmental Management Act
(NEMA), National Environmental management: Protected Areas Act (NEMPA),
other environmental legislations and regulatory processes. Knowledge and
understanding of Public Service Act, Occupational Health, and Safety Act,
PFMA, Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of Indigenous Forestry and
Protected areas operational processes. Skills: People management and
empowerment, financial management, Project and programme management,
Communication (written and verbal), Leadership, Facilitation and negotiation
skills, Planning and execution. Ability to work long hours, to apply policies. work
individually and in team, work with difficult persons and to resolve conflict,
Innovative and proactive. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Preserving the biodiversity of the estate to ensure the continued livelihood
within the forest estate. Management and rehabilitation of degraded forest
areas, wetlands, and riparian zones. Implementation of National Forest Act and
National Veld & Forest Fire Act. Auditing of forests and implementation of
Corrective Action Measures as per PCIS Framework. Management of woodlots
associated with some Indigenous forests. Manage the infrastructure to ensure
the functional utilisation, maintenance, and development within the forest
estate. Roads (e.g., management roads, tourist roads, etc.). Office buildings
(e.g., offices, stores, gardens, staff houses, guest houses, ablution facilities
etc.). Tourism facilities (Recreational facilities e.g., hiking huts, guest houses,
camp sites, picnic sites, bird hides, etc.). Forest boundary beacons and fences.
Promote Environmental Awareness and manage internal and external
relationships with all interested and affected stakeholders to the estate. Ensure
presentations to visitors, schools, and communities. Promote indigenous tree
planting and Arbor week. Promote, facilitate, and monitor access by users and
visitors to educate them on the aspects of forest biodiversity management.
Ensure proper functioning of Participatory Forest Management Committees
(neighbouring farmers, communities, NGOs, and other stakeholders).
Participate in biodiversity related forums and workshops. Training of SAPS,
Communities and Forest Officers in National Forest Act and National Veld &
Forest Fire Act. Manage risk and security aspects on the estate &
administrative and related function. Develop and implement resource security
plan for the estate. Enforce regulations and legislation applicable on the estate.
Coordinate and conduct regular forest patrols. Oversee the issuing of licenses
and other relevant permits. Compile and submit monthly and quarterly reports
(technical and support related e.g., work plans for PMDS). Develop an
Operational Plan for the estate. Manage human resources. Provide inputs into
the development of internal standards and guidelines. Coordinate and manage
booking for in hiking huts accommodation. Inputs on the formulation of policies
and regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. TV Ramatshimbila Tel No: (012) 309 5716
APPLICATIONS : BC23-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 38/27 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RECRUITMENT, SELECTION AND SERVICE
BENEFITS AND CONDITIONS REF NO: CMS21/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
23
REQUIREMENTS : Degree/National Diploma (NQF6) in Human Resources
Management/Development or relevant qualification within the related field as
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) in the field of Human Resources
Management. Proven experience in Human Resource Management, with
specific focus on Human Resource Recruitment, Selection and Service
Conditions and Benefits. Experience in retention strategies and knowledge of
processes and practices. Knowledge of the Public Service Act, 1994 (Act 103
of 1994), Public Service Regulations, the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act 55
of 1998), the Basic Conditions of Employment Act, 1997 (Act 75 of 1997) as
well as administrative procedures and broader public service human resource
regulatory frameworks. Supervisory experience. Skills: Good communication
(verbal and written), organising, planning, research, analytical, coordination,
presentation and stakeholder liaison, project management and people
management. Ability to interpret and implement policies. Willingness to travel
and work extended hours. Ability to take initiatives and provide creative
solutions. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to work with difficult persons
and resolve conflict.
DUTIES : Provide leadership and supervision to a team of Recruitment Officers Oversee
the provision of professional and effective Recruitment and Service Conditions
and Benefits function to Line Managers. Ensure and provide support in terms
of service conditions and benefits such as leave, PILIR allowances, pensions,
resettlement, medical assistance, overtime, financial disclosures for SMS.
Facilitate policy development and implementation on staff recruitment and
retention matters. Facilitate the implementation of the Department’s retention
strategy. Coordinate, supervise and facilitate effective recruitment, shortlisting
and interviewing of competent human resources. Monitor effective Personnel
Suitability Checks and ensure placement of employees on PERSAL. Provide
advice on all Recruitment, Selection and Service Benefits and Conditions
related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Nzwane Tel No: (021) 493 7223
APPLICATIONS : CMS21-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 38/28 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CREDIT, TRAVEL AND SUBSISTENCE REF NO:
CFO20/2025
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) or in Cost and Management Accounting or relevant
qualification within the related field, as recognised by SAQA with minimum of
three (3) years relevant experience in Financial Management or related field.
Knowledge of financial management, accounting and business practices.
Knowledge of strategic planning and budgeting, Supply Chain Management
and Logistics. Knowledge of Public Service Financial Legislative Frameworks.
Must have extensive experience operating transversal financial systems (BAS,
LOGIS and PERSAL). Advanced skills in financial management. Good
interpersonal relations, problem solving, analysis and people management.
Must be computer literate and be able to work well individually and in a team
as well as under extreme pressure. Must be able to maintain good relationships
and work effectively with various stakeholders. Must be in possession of a valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Ensure that BAS, LOGIS & Travel and Subsistence claims are accurate and
processed effectively and efficiently in terms of departmental policies and
procedures. Ensure compliance to Treasury Regulation 8.2.3, all departmental
policies and procedures. Compile financial reporting inputs on a monthly and/
or quarterly basis. Ensure that all suppliers are verified and registered on
departmental financial systems. Supervise the cashier/ petty cash office and
adequately account for all revenue received. Ensure provision of petty cash in
the region. Assist in providing financial guidance to responsible managers.
Exercise adequate control over filed payment documents (batch/ document
control). Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Essack Tel No: (021) 493 7165
APPLICATIONS : CFO20-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 38/29 : GIS TECHNICIAN PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO: EP28/2025
SALARY : R391 671per annum
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
24
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in GIS / Cartography or relevent qualification
within the related field, as recognised by SAQA with three (3) year post
qualification technical GIS experience. Compulsory registration with PLATO as
a GISc Technician. Knowledge of programme and project management, Legal
and operational compliance Knowledge. Process knowledge and skills,
knowledge of Database Management, Maintenance and Systems skills. Geo-
Database design and analysis. Knowledge Research and development.
Strategic management and direction, Financial Management. Ability to
communicate with people at different levels, Data analysis skills, organising
and management skills. Work effectively with others as a member of a team,
quality work. A valid driver’s license and willingness to long hours with limited
supervision.
DUTIES : Perform technical GISc activities. Source spatial information from various data
custodians, Capture and clean spatial data from various formats and sources,
Apply coordinate systems and projections. Undertake spatial analysis with
regards to GISc projects. Maintain GIS unit Effectiveness, Maintain GISc tools.
Updating of GISc software and renewal of licenses. Document organisational
GISc challenges, Organise workshops for user requirements analysis. Identify
gap analysis on available spatial information in the organization. Document
software capabilities and identify the required functionalities. Customise the
GISc software to suit the organisational needs. Supervise subordinates’ key
performance areas by setting and monitoring performance standards
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Rofhiwa Mathivha Tel: (051) 430 7243
APPLICATIONS : EP28-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 38/30 : PROJECT COORDINATOR: EP NON-INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAMMES
REF NO: EP24/2025
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : George: Western Cape
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Natural / Environmental Science or relevant
qualification within the related field as recognised by SAQA. Two (2) years’
experience in Project Coordination or relevant field. The candidate must have
knowledge of the following: Knowledge of Alien vegetation control.
Understanding of Project management. General Administration. Administration
field: emails, Internet, Word Processing. Financial Administration. Project
Management. Departmental procedures and prescript/policies. Skills; Sound
organising and planning skills. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to work
with difficult people. Responsible and loyal. Honest and reliable. Ability to work
long hours voluntary. Ability to work with limited supervision. Ability to share
knowledge. Good interpersonal relations. General and Good communications
skills. Coordination skills. Computer literacy. Listening skills. Writing skills.
Human relations skills.
DUTIES : Provide project planning support services. Develop a project plan / APP for the
project. Ensure a training plan is developed and approved for project. Engage
stakeholders in the project area. Facilitate the implementation of the project
plans. Ensure work opportunities are created through the non-infrastructure
project. Ensure full time equivalents are created through the non-infrastructure
project. Ensure all task/verification requests are completed. Ensure training
interventions are monitored in the project. Monitoring of the project. Conduct
sites visits. Ensure operational assessment reports are completed. Ensure
project vehicles are authorized in line with norms and standards. Ensure
incident reports are completed in line with OHS policy. Ensure key performance
indicator reports are completed for the project. Monitor the project cash flow.
Ensure OHS assessment reports are completed. Render projects close out
services. Conduct interim and final site inspection in the project. Facilitate
completion certificates for areas verified. Compile close out reports
ENQUIRIES : Mr Nceba Ngcobo at 083 451 2154
APPLICATIONS : EP24-2025@dffe.gov.za
POST 38/31 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (MR2): CORPORATE LEGAL
SUPPORT &LITIGATION REF NO: RCSM09/2025
SALARY : R233 712 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : LLB degree coupled with at least one (1) year appropriate post qualification in
legal/litigation experience. Knowledge of Environmental Law, Mining Law,
25
Constitutional and Administrative Law. An ability to interpret and apply law,
legislations, and policies. Good analytical and research skills. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Good legal drafting skills. Computer literacy.
Ability to work in a team, a pro-active, problem-solving, and positive attitude.
Ability to adhere to deadlines is essential. Must be able to travel and must have
a valid driver’s licence and be able to work after hours or over weekends when
necessary. Good negotiating skills.
DUTIES : Drafting of contracts or international instruments on request and instructions
from client directorates. Ensuring legalities and legal formalities of contracts or
international instruments conform to the prescribed prescripts. Provide general
legal support including providing legal advice and opinions. Conduct
information and training workshops within the Department on contract manual
and templates, PAIA, POPIA and PAJA Ensure PAIA requests are responded
to within the time frames specified in terms of the PAIA.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Tsegarie Tel No: (021) 441 2719
APPLICATIONS : RCSM09/2025@dffe.Gov.za
26
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
It is the Department’s intension to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filing of this
post with a candidate whose transfer /promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : The Director-General, National Department of Health, Private Bag X399,
Pretoria, 0001. Hand delivered application may be submitted at Reception
(Brown Application Box), Dr AB Xuma Building, 1112 Voortrekker Rd, Pretoria
Townlands 351-JR or should be forwarded to recruitment@health.gov.za
quoting the reference number on the subject e-mail.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms M Shitiba
CLOSING DATE : 03 November 2025
NOTE : All short-listed candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise for SMS posts, the selection panel will recommend candidates to
attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the
DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments).
The competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment batteries.
Applications should be submitted on the new Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service department and should be accompanied by a CV only (previous
experience must be comprehensively detailed). The Z83 must be fully
completed (in line with DPSA Practice note), failure to comply will automatically
disqualify the applicant. Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualification and other relevant documents on application. Certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents will be requested prior to the final
selection phase. Applications should be on one PDF format (If emailed).
Applications received after the closing date and those that do not comply with
the requirements will not be considered. It is the applicant’s responsibility to
have foreign qualifications and national certificates (where applicable)
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Please note by
responding to the advertisement, you consent to the collection, processing, and
storing of your Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your information will be used solely for the
purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with third parties without prior
consent unless required by law. The Department reserves the right not to fill
the posts. The successful candidate will be subjected to personnel suitability
checks and other vetting procedures. Applicants are respectfully informed that
correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If notification of
an interview is not received within three (3) months after the closing date,
candidates may regard their application as unsuccessful. The Department will
not be liable where applicants use incorrect/no reference number(s) on their
applications.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 38/32 : DIRECTOR: NURSING PRACTICE REF NO: NDOH 75/2025
Chief Directorate: Nursing Practice
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package), (basic salary
consist of 70% of total package, the State’s contribution to the Government
Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible portion]. The
flexible portion of the package can be structured according to the Senior
Management Service guidelines
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 and NQF 7 qualification in Nursing, Registrable with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC). Annual practising license certificate from
SANC is mandatory. Postgraduate qualification in Nursing
Administration/Health Services Management will be an added advantage. At
least five (5) years’ clinical experience in the nursing environment
(Administration, Education, or Primary Health Care) as Nurse Manager/Middle
Management/Senior Management level. Knowledge of the Constitution of
South Africa to adopt a right-based-approach to nursing practice. Knowledge
of statutory body requirements, as well as relevant legislative framework
27
governing the practice of nursing and midwifery. Knowledge of General Public
Service Administrative policies that have relevance to nursing practice; Labour
relations and Employment equity issues that have bearing on the practice of
nursing. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act and National
Health Act. Good communication (verbal and written), managerial,
interpersonal, people management, project and programme management,
policy development and analysis, leadership, effective decision making and
computer skills (MS Office package). Ability to work under pressure. A valid
driver’s license. SMS pre-entry Certificate is required for appointment
finalization.
DUTIES : Develop relevant policy guidelines for nurses and midwives, based on their
scopes of practice. Facilitate the development and review of policy guidelines
for the practice of nursing and midwifery, that respond to the current challenges
facing the health care system. Provide nursing and midwifery practice
leadership and support provincial development of Standard Operating
Procedures (SOPs). Establish the National Nursing Managers forum and assist
and support the establishment of provincial forums. Liaise with statutory bodies
and other relevant stakeholders in the development and update of the
regulatory framework to institutionalize nursing practice in South Africa.
Promote provincial implementation of Continuing Professional Development
(CPD) for professional nurse and midwives, in collaboration with the SANC.
Develop a collaborative relationship with all stakeholders that deal with nursing
practice matters to improve quality of care at all levels. Redesign nursing
practices to meet the emerging new challenges as well as in alignment with
international trends. Facilitate implementation of the National Nursing
Leadership Competency Framework. Manage financial and human resources
for the Directorate: Nursing Practice, including continued advocacy to ensure
availability of adequate resources to create positive practice environments in
all the nine provinces. Develop a costed business plan based on strategic
objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Matandela Tel No: (012) 395 9671
OTHER POSTS
POST 38/33 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: NDOH 76/2025
Directorate: Financial and Management Accounting
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package), (basic salary
consists of 70% or 75% of total package, salary package will be structured
according to Middle Management Service guidelines
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and NQF 7 qualification in Financial Accounting or
Auditing as recognized by SAQA. At least three (3) years’ relevant experience
at Assistant Director level in financial accounting or auditing field. In-depth
knowledge of effective financial administration within the Public Service
including government banking procedures, Public Finance Management Act,
Treasury Regulations, Safety Net, PERSAL, Financial Delegations,
Departmental policies and procedures and Basic Accounting System (BAS).
Knowledge of suspense/control accounts. Knowledge of the Personnel Staff
Codes as well as PSCBC Resolution 3 of 1999. Good communication (verbal
and written), management, analytical, financial, auditing, problem solving and
computer skills (MS Office package).
DUTIES : Produce complete and accurate quarterly, interims and annual financial
statements reports, including coordination of Request for Information (RFI) and
communication of audit findings and liaise with Auditor General of South Africa
(AGSA). Manage accurate processing of financial transactions in respect of
salaries and S&T claims. Monitor payroll certification process, and ensure
compliance to National Treasury deadlines. Ensure complete and accurate
processing of sundry payments, efficient bookkeeping and banking. Ensure
effective movement of debtors and loss control (in respect of irregular
expenditure, fruitless and wasteful expenditure and unauthorized expenditure).
Manage personnel and risk management.
ENQUIRIES : MS GB Mawela Tel No: (012)395 8695
28
POST 38/34 : PNB1 PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 SPECIALTY NURSING REF NO:
NDOH 79/2025
Directorate: MBOD
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum as per OSD.
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and Basic R425 (i.e. Degree/Diploma in nursing) or
equivalent NQF 6 qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a
professional nurse with proof of registration. A post-basic nursing qualification,
with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with SANC in one of the specialties
referred to in the glossary of terms. Experience working in an occupational
health environment with miners, ex-mine workers and mining environment
dealing with occupational diseases will be an advantage. A minimum of 4 years
appropriate experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with
SANC in general nursing. Experience in General Nursing care process and
procedures, quality assurance, patient experience of care, patients’ safety,
infection control, and relevant legal frameworks e.g. National core standards.
Knowledge and insight into the relevant legal framework such as the nursing
act, scope of practice, and basic knowledge of the Labour Relations Act.
Understanding of Public Service Regulations. Good ethical practices, caring
attitude, quality patient care, multi-cultural, nursing advocacy, first aid, patient
support, communication, planning, organizational, conflict and personnel
management as well as administrative skills. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Performance of benefit medical examination. Do urinalysis, take body weight
and height on all patients. Patients’ ECG as per the doctor’s request. Rendering
emergency medical care to clients and staff members. Health screening of
members of staff for non-communicable diseases. Provide counselling and
health education. Conducting quality check on all files submitted for benefit
medical examination. Check that the medical reports form is filled and signed
as well as copies of supporting documents are sent with submission claims.
Administration of the clinic. Ordering, maintenance and control of equipment
and supplies, including drugs for the clinic. Keeping a record of all benefit
medical examinations done at the clinic. Management of risk queries. Ensure
that health and safety policies are always practiced.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Leseyane Tel No: (011) 356-5669
POST 38/35 : RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1: MBOD REF NO: NDOH 80/2025
Directorate: MBOD
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum as per OSD.
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and National Diploma (NQF level 6) or Bachelor’s degree
in Diagnostic Radiography. Current registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in Radiography. At least four (4) years’
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic
Radiographer. Knowledge of diagnostic procedures in accordance with the
required competencies, radiation protection, radiation control and correct kV
and mAs selection. Knowledge of quality control and ALARA principles and
understanding of the Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of the general
radiological process management, health and safety policies, national and
provincial policies. Knowledge of provisioning and procurement procedures as
well as QA procedures. Good communication (verbal and written), planning,
organizing, problem solving, decision making, conflict and personnel
management skills. Ability to treat patients with empathy and according to
department protocols and ability to assist in special procedures.
DUTIES : Ensure the quality of work regardless of the number of workers and ex-mine
workers accessing benefit medical examinations at the MBOD. Provide
monthly reports for the number of workers and ex-mine workers accessing
benefits medical examination at the Medical Bureau for Occupational
Diseases. Provide assistance in the administration unit with the processing of
BME applications. Perform BME verification and capture BME application
data. Perform unit quality control tests daily, monthly, quarterly and yearly.
Identify units’ equipment for quality control tests, inspect equipment
professionally to ensure that they comply with safety standards and for optimal
performance. Compile statistic system for the number of ex-mine workers
accessing benefit medical examinations and participate in outreach programs.
Establish the number of BME and NIOH patients examined and keep a record
29
thereof as a backup. Provide awareness, training, and support on BME process
for benefit medical examinations. Perform administration duties required for the
job. Register patients as and when x-rays are performed and complete all
prescribed and implemented quality control procedures and tables for record
keeping. Management of risk and audit queries, while ensuring radiation safety
to staff, patients, and the public.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Setuke Tel No: (011) 356 5607
POST 38/36 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: NDOH 77/2025 (X3 POSTS)
Branch: National Health Insurance
SALARY : R397 116 per annum, (plus competitive benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and National Diploma (NQF 6) in Office Administration/
Office Management/ Public Management/ Public Administration/ Business
Management/Business Administration. At least two (2) years’ experience at
Administrative Officer or equivalent level in the field of administration operating
a computer, answering and handling telephone calls, basic financial and
budget management as well as practical experience in maintaining accurate
filing system. Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, and
application of human resources policies as well as understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of
departmental procedures regarding finances, budgeting and procurement.
Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act and Treasury Regulations.
Knowledge on the use of LOGIS system. Good communication (verbal and
written), problem solving, analytical, planning, organizing and computer skills
(MS Office package).
DUTIES : Control of documentations within the Cluster. Manages the mail and or
correspondence register, receiving of documents, registering the documents,
proper records management, filing and dissemination of documents to the
relevant people and or Units. Administrate human resources management
functions. Maintain leave register and ensure that all leave taken are properly
recorded, checked and that leave application forms are submitted to Human
Resources for capturing on PERSAL. Administer the Cluster’s budget. Prepare
and administer office budget and expenditures control. Ensure the
maintenance of the filing system. Ensure accurate documents filing for all Unit
documents (e.g., submissions, correspondence from stakeholders, etc).
Ensure the arrangement of meetings, workshops, functions, accommodation,
and travel for the Cluster. Liaising with in-house travel agencies for bookings,
road transport and accommodation. Ensure and provide logistical support to
directorate. Ensure adequate provision of stationery for the Cluster’s office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Rampou Tel No: (012) 395 8139
POST 38/37 : MEDICAL BIOLOGICAL SCIENTIST GRADE 1 REF NO: NDOH 78/2025 (X2
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Violence Trauma and EMS
Please note that this is a re-advertisement. Applicants who have previously
applied need to re-apply.
SALARY : R397 233 – R 454 191 per annum as per OSD, (plus competitive benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 and National Diploma or a Degree in Microbiology/Biomedical
Science. At least one (1) year experience of working with import and export of
human biological substances as guided by Regulations 181. Working in clinical
research setting will be an advantage. Knowledge of human pathogens
(microbiology/biology) as it relates to the form, structure, reproductive
processes, genetics, taxonomy, and their role as pathogenic and/or immunizing
agents. Knowledge of Good Laboratories Practices. Knowledge of Biosafety in
relation to working with pathogens. Knowledge of inspections of
Microbiological Laboratories. Knowledge and understanding of Chapter 8 of
the National Health Act, Act 61 of 2003. Good communication (verbal and
written), interpersonal, analytical, intrapersonal, attention to details and
Microsoft computer skills. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Coordinate, together with the team the import and export permit programme.
Screen and review all import and export applications for compliance in relation
to Regulations. Inspect and register microbiology laboratories as per the
regulations. Monitor the microbiology labs for biosafety and biosecurity.
30
Respond to queries from applicants. Draft responses to the questions for
consideration by supervisor. Enhance the quality of operation of Stem Cell
Banks. Identify and conduct inspections for Stem Cell Banks, Tissue Banks
and Gamete Banks and Fertility Clinics.
ENQUIRIES : Dr R Ncha Tel No: (012) 395 8257
POST 38/38 : VETTING OFFICER REF NO: NDOH 81/2025
Directorate: Security Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, (plus competitive benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and NQF 6 qualification in Social Sciences / Security
Management or Policing as recognized by SAQA. A relevant training courses
offered by the State Security Agency (SSA) is required. Experience in security
related and/or vetting field will be an advantage. Knowledge of Minimum
Information Security Standard (MISS) and general administrative function
including vetting. Knowledge of Public Service Act and Regulations, National
Strategic Intelligence Act, Protection information Act, Criminal Procedure Act,
Promotion of Information Act and South African Constitution. Good
communication (verbal and written), problem solving and analysis, initiative,
acceptance of responsibilities, teamwork, ability to manage conflict, diplomacy
and listening skills, customer focus and responsiveness, planning, organizing
and computer skills (MS Office package). Ability to work under pressure and in
a team. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Conduct vetting fieldwork investigations. Conduct proper analysis and quality
checks on the information. Conduct and submit reports to management and
NIA on all vetting files and reports completed on a regular basis. Conduct
vetting investigations in respect of confidential and secret and top-secret levels.
Provide inputs for the development and implementation of policies, guidelines,
norms and standards in vetting investigations. Analyse, research and evaluate
all vetting related information. Provide advice and guidance on the
interpretation and application of legislation, policies and procedures. Provide
effective communication channels and systems between the department and
SSA and other related agencies. Liaise regularly with SSA, SAPS and Home-
Affairs and other critical stakeholders for advice and assistance and to obtain
additional information. Establish and promote relationships with external
stakeholders, including credit information providers, to access information.
ENQUIRIES : Dr T Nghonyama Tel No: (012) 395 8746
31
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 38/39 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CORPORATE COMMUNICATION REF NO: DHET
01/10/2025
Branch: Corporate Services
Chief Directorate: Corporate Communication
Re-advertisement and applicants who previously applied need not re-apply as
applications will be considered.
SALARY : R1 436 022 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 in the field of Communication/ Journalism/ Public
Relations or any relevant qualifications. A minimum of five (5) years ‘relevant
work experience at the Senior Managerial level. Knowledge of Ministerial
protocol, communication legislatives, Website related software’s, and
understanding of stakeholder management, Media operations. Successful
completion of a Nyukela Public Service Senior Management Service Pre-entry
Programme. Understanding of marketing and research acquired in theory and
practice. Planning, policy development and information management.
Understanding of government communication system services as an
advantage. Further requirements are Strategic Leadership and Capability,
Excellent and proven Project Management, Service Delivery Innovation,
Problem Solving & Analysis, People Management & Empowerment, Client
Orientation & Customer Care. Ability to work under pressure and willingness to
work extended hours. Good management and financial management skills,
conflict management and decision-making skills, time and people’s
management skills, good communication skills, presentation and facilitation
skills. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : To ensure effective management of Strategic Communication, Media, Public
Relations and Events support to all branches of the Department to promote
collaborative partnerships, branding, public awareness and sustainable,
achievable of Department objectives. Oversee the management, development,
implementation of strategic communication and media policies. Oversee the
management, planning and coordination of the effective flow of relevant
information from the Department to external stakeholders and positioning
Department of Higher Education and Training through marketing,
communicating its policies and institutions programmes. Oversee the
management, planning, coordination and management of DHET brand, identity
and effective shared communication service including publications, layout and
design, production of documents, language editing and proofreading,
photographic services to promote Departmental coordination and stakeholder
relations. Oversee the management, development and introduction of new
systems and forums for Internal Communication between the department and
its entities and institutions. Oversee the provision of efficient and effective
Departmental Call Centre Services. Oversee the management, development
and maintain a relevant, modern library and information resource Centre for
the Department and ensure compliance with the National Language Policy
upon approval. Oversee Media monitoring analysis and research on public
perceptions and opinion on the department’s programmes, services and
facilitate efficient and cost-effective events management and conferences
services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Mangena Tel No: (012) 213 5498
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents
namely, (1) a comprehensive CV, and (2) copies of all qualifications (including
matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s license, and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to compete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
32
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. Note: All shortlisted candidates will be required to undertake
writing test. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote representatives in
terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organization. Women and people
living with disability will receive preference in all SMS positions”.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/40 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: NATIONAL EXAMINATION AND ASSESSMENT REF
NO 01/10/2025
Branch: Technical Vocational Education and Training
Chief Directorate: National Examination and Assessment
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 in the field of Education, Education Management,
Public Management or equivalent qualification. A minimum of 5 years at senior
managerial level and ten (10) years’ work experience in Post-School Education
and Training. A postgraduate degree in Education will serve as an added
advantage. Proven senior management experience within the Technical and
Vocational Education and Training (TVET), Community Education, Training
(CET) as well as University environments will be prioritized. Successful
completion of a Nyukela Public Service Senior Management Service Pre-entry
Programme. In-depth understanding and knowledge of prescripts and legal
frameworks applicable to both the CET and TVET sectors. Further
requirements are Strategic Leadership and Capability, Excellent and proven
Project Management, Service Delivery Innovation, Problem Solving & Analysis,
People Management & Empowerment, Client Orientation & Customer Care.
Ability to work under pressure and willingness to work extended hours.,
Advance Financial Management Skills, Excellent Communication Skills and
ability to communicate to the audience in a tactful and influential manner. Ability
to collaborate and enhance stakeholder relations. Ethical leadership and
Integrity.
DUTIES : Ensure strategic leadership, efficient management, excellent governance of
the national examination and assessment within the department. Manage and
administer national examination in TVET and CET. Oversee the management
of examinations assessments and marking services in TVET and CET
colleges. Liaise with industry and other government institutions to create a
conducive environment for credible examinations and to ensure collaborative
partnerships and stakeholder relations. Manage the delegated administrative
and financial responsibilities. Facilitate the monitoring and evaluation of
examination systems in colleges. Oversee the provision of resulting and
certification Services, Oversee the provision of item development and marking
services, Oversee the provision Examinations Management services,
Administration and Monitoring, Manager resources in the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Mangena Tel No: (012) 213 5498
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
33
NOTE : Follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents
namely, (1) a comprehensive CV, and (2) copies of all qualifications (including
matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s license, and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to compete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. Note: All shortlisted candidates will be required to undertake
writing test. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote representatives in
terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organization. Women and people
living with disability will receive preference in all SMS positions”.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/41 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: POLICY, PLANNING, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
REF NO: 02/10/2025
Branch: Policy, Planning. Monitoring and Evaluation
Chief Directorate: Policy, Planning Monitoring and Evaluation
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF Level 7 qualification in Public Management, Public
Administration, Public Policy, Developmental Studies or equivalent
qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 5 years at senior
managerial level and ten (10) years’ work experience in strategic management,
public policy and monitoring & evaluation. Proven senior management
experience within a strategic planning, monitoring and evaluation environment
will be an added advantage. Experience in government policy development,
strategic and operational planning, and performance monitoring and evaluation
environment. Successful completion of a Nyukela Public Service Senior
Management Service Pre-entry Programme. In-depth knowledge of Public
Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Policy, PFMA Government
operations, Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Frameworks, Research and
Evaluation Methodologies. understanding of stakeholder management.
Planning, Policy Development, and Information Management. Strategic
Leadership and Capability, Excellent Project Management, Service Delivery
Innovation, Problem Solving & Analysis, People Management &
Empowerment, Client Orientation & Customer Care. Further requirements are
excellent and proven Management skills. Decision making. Financial
management. Conflict management. Data Analysis and Reporting. Time and
people management. Good analytical communication. Presentation and
facilitation. Advanced computer literacy. Ability to work under pressure and
manage multiple tasks.
DUTIES : Oversee the development of integrated planning frameworks and policies to
align organizational goals with national mandates. Oversee the facilitation of
Strategic Plan and Annual Performance Plan in the Department. Oversee the
monitoring of performance against strategic plans, measuring progress
34
towards targets and outcomes. Coordinate government-wide policies,
systems, and guidelines for effective planning, monitoring, and evaluation.
Oversee the management of data analysis and report on key statistics and
indicators on Post-School Education and Training. Management of resources
in the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mailula Tel No: (012) 213 5843
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents
namely, (1) a comprehensive CV, and (2) copies of all qualifications (including
matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s license, and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to compete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. Note: All shortlisted candidates will be required to undertake
writing test. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote representatives in
terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organization. Women and people
living with disability will receive preference in all SMS positions”.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/42 : DIRECTOR: EXAMINATION MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING REF NO:
DHET 03/10/2025
Branch: Technical Vocational Education and Training
Chief Directorate: National Examination and Assessment
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in the field of Education/Education
Management /Public Management qualification as recognised by SAQA. A
minimum of 5 years’ experience at middle/senior managerial level in an
examination environment within an educational setting. In-depth knowledge
and working experience in national examinations. Proven senior or middle
management experience in examination within the Post-School Education
Training sector will be prioritized. Successful completion of a Nyukela Public
Service Senior Management Service Pre-entry Programme. Knowledge of
Public Service Act, Understanding of the Higher Education sector, Policies and
governance environment of TVET colleges including knowledge of annual
reporting requirements by the Higher Education institutions, Understanding of
TVET administration, Understanding of the Higher Education sector. Strategic
capability and Leadership, People management and Empowerment,
Programme and Project management, Change Management, Knowledge
Management, Service Delivery Innovation, Problem Solving and Analysing,
Client orientation, Excellent verbal and written communication. Ability to pay
attention to details and work through high volume of data. Provide strategic
35
leadership and direction on examination management and monitoring. Develop
and implement systems to administer examination management and
monitoring. Manage the printing, packing and distribution of question papers,
Manage the administration, registration and monitoring of exam centres,
Manage institutional support and irregularities, Manage and control the
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mailula Tel No: (012) 312 5843
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents
namely, (1) a comprehensive CV, and (2) copies of all qualifications (including
matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s license, and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to compete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. Note: All shortlisted candidates will be required to undertake
writing test. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote representatives in
terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organization. Women and people
living with disability will receive preference in all SMS positions”.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/43 : PRINCIPAL REF NO: DHET 04/10/2025
Branch: Technical and Vocational Education and Training
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Umfolozi TVET College
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 in the field of Education or related qualification as
recognized by SAQA. A relevant postgraduate qualification in Education and
Training will be an added advantage. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at the
middle/ senior managerial level and 8 years’ working experience in a Post
School Education and Training environment. Extensive experience in any of
the following general management spheres; college education institution
management, strategy management, education management, human
resource management and development. Successful completion of a Nyukela
Public Service Senior Management Service Pre-entry Programme. Proven
management skills and a track record in the preparation, implementation and
management of strategic, operational and financial management plans and
project. Ability to design internal systems and controls to ensure sound
organizational governance, management and control. Proven management
skills and a track record in the preparation, implementation, and management
of strategic, operational, and financial management plans and projects. Ability
to design internal systems and controls to ensure sound organizational
governance, financial management, and control. Proven computer literacy,
including advanced MS Word, MS Excel, and MS PowerPoint. Proven report
36
writing and presentation skills. Sound knowledge of the public TVET college
sector and its regulatory and legislative framework. Knowledge of education
and institutional management principles, methodologies, and procedures.
Knowledge of governance and public sector management reporting
requirements. Strategic capability and leadership, client orientation and
customer focus, financial management, people management and
empowerment, communication, and stakeholder management. Knowledge of
and/or experience in the private sector/industry will also be treated as an added
advantage. A willingness to work irregular hours and travel extensively. A valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : To strategically manage the College and to support the College Council and
Department of Higher Education and Training in accordance with the Further
Education and Training Colleges Act (2006) and all other relevant legislation.
To drive the efficient and effective implementation of college governance
frameworks and systems; and the functioning of governance structures,
including the college council and the academic board. To build and foster an
effective management team that plans and executes the college mandate in
an integrated, compliant, and performance-focused manner. To fulfill the role
of accounting officer of the college by establishing and monitoring college
financial and supply chain management systems towards the achievement of
strategic goals and compliance with all relevant legislation and regulations. To
establish and monitor effective human resource management and stakeholder
engagement systems incorporating both marketing and communication. To
create a platform for effective management decision-making through the
establishment of an accurate and accessible information management
platform. To lead the development and delivery of responsive vocational and
occupational curricula and programmes and monitor the associated quality
assurance programme and impact on student performance and placement. To
operationalize business partnerships and linkages that translate into student
placements, workplace-based learning, and articulation. To establish and
manage a student management framework and system that facilitates student
support and governance and provides all enrolled students with holistic
academic and social support. To establish and lead a college infrastructure and
estate management system that assures the acquisition, maintenance,
management, and disposal of physical resources that facilitate the
achievement of strategic and operational objectives. Facilitate programme
articulation and upward progression.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mailula Tel No: (012) 312 5843
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents
namely, (1) a comprehensive CV, and (2) copies of all qualifications (including
matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s license, and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to compete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
37
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. Note: All shortlisted candidates will be required to undertake
writing test. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote representatives in
terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organization. Women and people
living with disability will receive preference in all SMS positions”.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
OTHER POSTS
POST 38/44 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION REF NO: DHET
05/10/2025
Branch: Technical Vocational Education and Training
Chief Directorate: National Examination and Assessment
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF Level 7 qualification in the field of Information and
Communication Technology (ICT) as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3
years’ experience at junior managerial level in Information and Communication
Technology (ICT) environment. Knowledge of system design, Data
management, large data manipulation using SQL, statistical analysis system
and ability to interpret data according to departmental standards, Knowledge
of Education Information collection processes, Extensive knowledge and
understanding of Examination Administration along with registration of
candidates for examination and resulting thereof. Effective planning,
organizing, and people management skills, Analytical, communication (written
and verbal), report writing, and interpersonal skills, Advanced computer
literacy, including MS Word, MS Excel and MS PowerPoint, Programme and
Project Management, Ability to work under pressure and manage multiple
tasks, Advanced skill in data mining and statistical analysis.
DUTIES : Administration, management of examinations for TVET College and adult
education. Compilation of examination performance report and deal with
internal or external data/information queries. Testing of examination data file
for TVET and CET resulting. Lead unit testing and user acceptance. Query
management of examinations systems and maintain all relevant projects.
Coordinate quarterly audit reports on the system and user access reviews.
Management of resources in the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Pholo Tel No: (012) 312 5027
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents
namely, (1) a comprehensive CV, and (2) copies of all qualifications (including
matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s license, and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to compete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
38
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. Note: All shortlisted candidates will be required to undertake
writing test. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote representatives in
terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organization. Women and people
living with disability will receive preference in all SMS positions”.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/45 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING REF NO: DHET 06/10/2025
Branch: Policy, Planning. Monitoring and Evaluation
Chief Directorate: Policy, Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in the field of Public Management,
Public Administration, Business Administration, Development Studies as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years of experience at junior managerial
level in a strategic planning, performance monitoring, environment. Advance
Knowledge of Public Service transformation and management issues. Public
Service Regulations and relevant prescripts. Government Frameworks, Strong
knowledge of government planning, reporting, monitoring, and evaluation
processes is crucial. Understanding of strategic management and service
delivery improvement frameworks is essential. Competency in project
management and financial management. Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA). Excellent skills in strategic planning, organizing, and people
management skills. Analytical, communication (written and verbal), report
writing, and interpersonal skills. Proven computer literacy, including advanced
MS Word, MS Excel and MS PowerPoint. Programme and Project
Management. Ability to work under pressure and manage multiple tasks.
DUTIES : Manage the creation and ongoing refinement of departmental and
organizational strategic plans and annual performance plans. Ensure the
departments projects align with the overall strategy, driving consistent
execution of plans. Monitor and report on the implementation of the Strategic
Plan and Annual Performance Plan against pre-determined objectives.
Conduct periodic capacity building sessions on performance monitoring
frameworks and guidelines to promote compliance on reporting requirements.
Management of resources in the Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Kgare Tel No: (012) 312 5442
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents
namely, (1) a comprehensive CV, and (2) copies of all qualifications (including
matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s license, and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to compete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
39
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. Note: All shortlisted candidates will be required to undertake
writing test. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote representatives in
terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organization. Women and people
living with disability will receive preference in all SMS positions”.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/46 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PHYSICAL SECURITY SERVICES REF NO: DHET
07/10/2025
Branch: Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Directorate: Security Management
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate undergraduate NQF level qualification in the field of Security
Management as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years at junior
managerial level in the Security or Policing environment. Excellent Knowledged
of Physical security systems and procedures. Public Service Regulations and
relevant prescripts and legislation (MISS, PSIRA Act, OHS Act, PFMA).
Departmental policies and procedures. Advance skills in Strategic leadership
and people management, Risk assessment and analytical skills, Policy
development and implementation, Communication, negotiation, and
stakeholder management skills, Problem-solving and decision-making abilities.
Ability to work collaboratively with a range of stakeholders in a facilitating,
advisory or informative capacity, Self-disciplined and able to work under
pressure with minimum supervision, Communication and interpersonal, Policy
Development and Research. Problem Solving, Presentation, Project
Management, Team Leadership, Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Manage physical security services, Provide advice and guidance on security
matters, Ensure compliance with security legislation, policies, and regulations
(e.g., MISS, PFMA, OHS Act, MPSS), Conduct security risk assessments and
vulnerability analyses of facilities and operations, Conduct investigations on
security breaches, Coordinate all departmental events, Manage security
administration of the component, Manage all resources of the Sub-Directorate
in line with departmental policies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Lekalakala Tel No: (012) 312 5092
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents
namely, (1) a comprehensive CV, and (2) copies of all qualifications (including
matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s license, and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to compete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
40
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. Note: All shortlisted candidates will be required to undertake
writing test. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote representatives in
terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organization. Women and people
living with disability will receive preference in all SMS positions”.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/47 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTERNAL COMMUNICATIONS AND CLIENT
SERVICES REF NO: DHET 08/10/2025
Branch: Corporate Services
Chief Directorate: Corporate Communications
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive Remuneration Package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF Level 7 Qualification in the field of Communications,
Communication Science, Public Relations as recognized by SAQA. A minimum
of 3 years of experience at junior managerial level in Communications or Client
Services environment. Advance Knowledge of Communications Strategy.
Knowledge of Marketing and Promotions. Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Public Service Regulations and Public Service Act, South Africa's
National Communication Strategy Framework and Government
communication policies. Effective planning, organizing, and people
management skills. Analytical, communication (written and verbal), report
writing, and interpersonal skills. Advanced computer literacy, including MS
Word, MS Excel and MS PowerPoint. Programme and Project Management.
Strong client orientation, problem-solving, and conflict management skills.
Ability to work under pressure and manage multiple tasks.
DUTIES : Develop and drive the implementation of both Internal Communication and
Client Services Strategies, aligning with organizational objectives and plans.
Manage Internal Communication platforms, including the intranet, newsletters,
and social media, Produce and disseminate content for internal audiences,
ensuring clear and engaging messaging. Provide comprehensive
communication and support services to internal clients. Management of
resources in the Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Lekalakala Tel No: (012) 312 5092
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
NOTE : Follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the supporting documents
namely, (1) a comprehensive CV, and (2) copies of all qualifications (including
matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s license, and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to compete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. Note: All shortlisted candidates will be required to undertake
41
writing test. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote representatives in
terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organization. Women and people
living with disability will receive preference in all SMS positions”.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/48 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STUDENT SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO:
UMF69/10/2025
(PERSAL Appointment)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10), plus benefits as applicable in the Public
Sector
CENTRE : UMfolozi TVET College, Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Bachelor’s Degree (NQF7) in Psychology or BA in Social Work
(Major in Psychology) or equivalent qualification. 3–5 years’ relevant
experience in an educational institution. A valid driver’s license. Computer
Literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint). Knowledge of PSET and CET
Act; Teaching and Learning, Skills Development Act, National Student
Financial Aid Scheme and related legislation, Public Service Regulations and
Public Service Act, Labour Relation Act. Knowledge of the Ethical regulatory
and legislative framework; The following skills are required: Administrative;
planning and organizing; financial management; report writing; communication
and interpersonal; problem solving; client oriented; analytical; project
management; team leadership; and people management. Sound financial
planning and management competencies. Excellent report writing skills and
processing skills. Advantageous: Registration with Health Professions Council
of South Africa as either Registered Counsellor (Career Counselling or School
Counselling) or psychometric (Independent Practice). Previous experience of
at least 2 years in the TVET Sector.
DUTIES : Oversee administration of the students support services unit; Manage students
counselling across the college; Provide student with career guidance,
counselling and academic support; Oversee and maintain the sport, recreation,
arts and culture activities for student; Facilitate student governance and
student leadership development; Manage mainstreaming of gender and
disability within students; Management of all Human, Financial and other
resources of the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms ZH Mngoma Tel No: (035) 902 9501
APPLICATIONS : All application should be emailed to Applications.central@umfolozi.edu.za. The
name of the post and reference number must be indicated in the email subject
line. Applications should be send as one PDF file, without any qualifications.
No Faxed applications will be accepted. Applications that do not comply with
the above specifications will be disqualified.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form (in line with DPSA circular
19 of 2022), obtainable from any Public Service department or on the internet
at www.dpsa.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents must not be included in the application. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications on the day of the interview. Communication will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. A separate application must be submitted for each post
that you are applying for. Late application (received after closing date and time)
and incomplete applications will not be considered. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified copies of qualification and other relevant
documents to College Human Resources Management Administration Unit on
or before the day of the interview. Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The employer is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be
informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the
Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) in the
Department through the filling of this post(s) with a candidate whose
appointment will promote representatively in line with the numerical targets as
contained in our Employment Equity Plan. The Employer reserves the right not
to make an appointment. Where applicable, candidates will be subjected to a
skills test. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates. All short-
listed candidates will be subjected to a qualifications and citizen verification;
criminal record and financial/asset record checks. Applicants who have not
42
been invited for an interview within 60 days of the closing date should consider
their application unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 30 October 2025 at 16:00
POST 38/49 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT AND QUALITY MANAGEMENT
SYSTEM REF NO: UMF70/10/2025
(PERSAL Appointment)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), plus benefits as applicable in the Public
Sector
CENTRE : UMfolozi TVET College, Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Internal Audit (NQF7) or related qualification/Appropriate National
Diploma (NQF6) in Internal Audit or related qualification. 3–5 years’ relevant
experience in Internal Audit. Experience in the development of
policies/implementation strategies. A valid driver’s license. Computer Literacy
(MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint). Knowledge of relevant prescripts,
legislation and regulations. Knowledge and understanding of the Internal Audit
environment. The following skills are required: Planning and organizing;
financial management; report writing; communication and interpersonal;
problem solving; analytical; client oriented; project management; team
leadership; and people management. Client service focus; integrity;
committed; proactive; loyal.
DUTIES : The preparation and execution of the internal audit plan; The provision of
secretarial support services to the audit committee; Ensure that processes
needed for quality management systems are established, implemented and
maintained; Oversee the development, implementation and monitoring of
policies; Management of staff development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms ZH Mngoma Tel No: (035) 902 9501
APPLICATIONS : All application should be emailed to Applications.central@umfolozi.edu.za. The
name of the post and reference number must be indicated in the email subject
line. Applications should be send as one PDF file, without any qualifications.
No Faxed applications will be accepted. Applications that do not comply with
the above specifications will be disqualified.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form (in line with DPSA circular
19 of 2022), obtainable from any Public Service department or on the internet
at www.dpsa.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents must not be included in the application. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications on the day of the interview. Communication will be limited to
shortlisted candidates. A separate application must be submitted for each post
that you are applying for. Late application (received after closing date and time)
and incomplete applications will not be considered. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified copies of qualification and other relevant
documents to College Human Resources Management Administration Unit on
or before the day of the interview. Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The employer is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be
informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the
Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) in the
Department through the filling of this post(s) with a candidate whose
appointment will promote representatively in line with the numerical targets as
contained in our Employment Equity Plan. The Employer reserves the right not
to make an appointment. Where applicable, candidates will be subjected to a
skills test. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates. All short-
listed candidates will be subjected to a qualifications and citizen verification;
criminal record and financial/asset record checks. Applicants who have not
been invited for an interview within 60 days of the closing date should consider
their application unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 30 October 2025 at 16:00
43
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development’s mandate is to ensure that there is
accessible justice system in our vibrant and evolving constitutional democracy. It is responsible,
amongst others, to enable Access to Justice for all, promote Constitutionalism, Rule of Law, Respect for
Human Rights; and to coordinate the State Litigation and Legal Advisory Services. The Department is
therefore presenting an opportunity to dynamic individuals with relevant competencies to join a dynamic
team in its quest to fulfill its mandate and deliver justice services to the people of South Africa.
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post.
CLOSING DATE : 03 November 2025
NOTE : The application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that do
not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for
submission. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications.
All shortlisted candidates for posts will be subjected to a technical and/or
competency assessment. A pre-entry certificate obtained from National School
of Government (NSG) is required before appointment for all SMS positions.
Candidate will complete a financial disclosure form and also be required to
undergo a security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must
provide the Police Clearance certificate from country of origin only when
shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of
vacant posts the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South
Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant
Human Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Reasonable accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities
including where driver’s license is a requirement. Correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not hear from us within 3
months of this advertisement, please accept that your application has been
unsuccessful. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Target.
OTHER POST
POST 38/50 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: 2025/54/MP
SALARY R397 116 – R467 790 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Bethal Magistrate Office
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year National Diploma/ Bachelor Degree in Public Administration /
Public Management or equivalent; 3 years administration experience;
Knowledge of Human Resource Management, Supply Chain Management and
Risk Management; Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act, Knowledge
of Financial Management (Vote and Trust Account); Departmental Financial
Instructions, BAS and Justice Yellow Pages. Skills and Competencies: People
management; Computer literacy (Microsoft packages); Good communication
skills (written and verbal); Organizing and problem-solving skills; Sound
leadership and management skills; Good interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Co-ordinate and manage the financial and human
resources of the office; Co-ordinate and manage risk and security in the court;
Manage the strategic and business planning process; Manage the Criminal and
Civil Court Administration Section and other sections related to Family Court
and Supply Chain; Manage Third Party Funds and Vote Accounts for the office;
Co-ordinate, Manage and administer support services to Case Flow
Management and other court users.
ENQUIRIES : Ms KN Zwane at 060 532 2006
44
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank centre, 4th
floor building, Nelspruit 1200 or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu.
45
ANNEXURE G
DEPARTMENT OF LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : The application must include only a completed and signed new Z83 Form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the Department of Public
Service and Administration (DPSA) website link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ and a detailed Curriculum Vitae
which may be posted, hand delivered or e-mailed using the addresses provided
for in each advertisement, note only the Z83 and detailed Curriculum Vitae
should be attached and must be limited to 10 megabytes and submitted as a
PDF document. The DLRRD will not be held responsible for server delays.
Certified copies of Identity Document, Grade 12 Certificate and the highest
required qualifications as well as a driver’s licence where necessary and
service certificates to support senior management experience, will only be
submitted by shortlisted candidates to Human Resources on or before the day
of the interview date. Failure to do so will result in your application being
disqualified. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation
report issued by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by SAQA
and to provide proof of such evaluation report (only when shortlisted). The
requirements for appointment at the Senior Management Service (SMS) level
include the successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-entry
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG). Prior
to appointment, a candidate would be required to complete the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS as endorsed by DPSA which is an
online course, endorsed by the NSG. The course is available at the NSG under
the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the full details can be sourced
by the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/. No appointment will take place without the successful completion
of the pre-entry certificate and submission of proof thereof. All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS, are required to undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical assessment and the other will be an
integrity (Ethical Conduct) assessment. Selection committees will score both
pre-entry assessments as an additional criterion in the interview process, to
determine the candidate’s suitability based on post technical and generic
requirements. Following the interview, practical exercise and integrity
assessment for SMS positions, the selection committee will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment in
compliance with the DPSA Directive on the Implementation of Competency
Based Assessments. The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. NB: Please note that false or fraudulent qualifications
submitted by applicants will be reported to the South African Police Services
(SAPS), and a criminal case shall be opened. Applications: Please ensure that
you submit your application before the closing date as no late applications will
be considered. Candidates are discouraged from submitting duplicate
applications. If you apply for more than 1 post, please submit separate
applications for each post that you apply for. Due to the large number of
applications we envisage to receive, applications will not be acknowledged.
Should you not be contacted within 3 months of the closing date of the
advertisement, please consider your application to be unsuccessful. Should,
during any stage of the recruitment process, a moratorium be placed on the
filling of posts or the Department is affected by any process such as, but not
limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts, the Department reserves the
right to cancel the recruitment process and re-advertise the post at any time in
the future. Important: DLRRD is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representivity in DLRRD through the
filling of posts. The Department reserves the right not to fill a position. In
compliance with the Protection of Personal Information Act 4 of 2013 (POPIA),
the DLRRD assures all applicants that any personal information provided
during the recruitment process will be treated with the utmost confidentiality
and used solely for recruitment purposes. Your privacy and data security are
of paramount importance to us. By applying for any of these posts, you consent
to the collection, processing (including dissemination to third parties for
purposes of verification of qualifications, credit record, criminal record, etc),
46
and storage of your personal information for recruitment and selection-related
activities only. The DLRRD is committed to safeguarding your privacy and
maintaining the trust you place in us. Shortlisted candidates will be required to
be available for assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined
by the Department. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to Personnel
Suitability Checks. The successful candidate will be subjected to undergo
security vetting. DLRRD will conduct reference checks which may include
social media profiles of the shortlisted candidates. Applicants must declare any
pending criminal, disciplinary or any other allegations or investigations against
them. Should this not be declared and uncovered during / after the interview
took place, the application will not be considered and in the unlikely event that
the person has been appointed such appointment will be terminated. The
successful candidate will be appointed subject to positive results of the security
clearance process. The successful candidate will be required to enter into an
employment contract and sign an annual performance agreement and annually
disclose her or his financial interests with the Department. All applicants are
required to declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose
memberships of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with.
OTHER POSTS
POST 38/51 : SURVEY TECHNICIAN (GRADE A – C) REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/5
Directorate: Examination, State and Land Reform Survey Services
SALARY : R391 671 – R586 665 per annum, (The salary will be determined in accordance
with the OSD).
CENTRE : Mpumalanga (Mbombela)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of Grade 12 Certificate and a minimum
National Diploma in Survey or Cartography (NQF Level 6). Compulsory
registration with South African Geomatics Council (SAGS) as a Survey
Technician / Surveyor. Minimum of 3 years post qualification technical survey
experience. Job related Knowledge: Programme and project management,
Survey Design and analysis, Research and Development, Computer aided
survey applications, knowledge of legal compliance. Job related skills:
Technical report writing and Creating high performance culture, Decision
making, Team Leadership, Analytical, Creativity, Self-management, Financial
management, Customer focus and responsiveness, Communication (verbal
and written), Computer literacy, Planning and organising, Conflict
management, Problem solving and analysis, People management skills and
Innovation. A valid driver’s licence. Values / Attributes: Confidentiality, fairness,
respect and honesty.
DUTIES : Provide technical survey services and support. Provide technical services in
terms of examination, maintenance, archiving and information supply of survey
documents and submit for evaluation/approval by the relevant authority.
Perform surveys and survey computations. Promote safety in line with statutory
and regulatory requirements. Evaluate plans, existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology, and provide
Geographic Information System (GIS), mapping and Information supply
services. Perform administrative and related functions. Provide inputs into the
budgeting process as required. Compile and submit reports as required.
Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical survey operational plan.
Develop, implement and maintain databases. Supervise and control Candidate
Survey Technicians/Officers and related personnel and assets. Conduct
research and development. Render continuous professional development to
keep up with new technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on
technical survey technology or new survey techniques to improve expertise
and liaise with relevant bodies/councils on survey related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PP Muchanga Tel No: (013) 754 8000
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 17 Van
Rensburg Street, 7th Floor Bateleur Building, Mbombela, 1200 or by email to
P5@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: (Grade A) African, Coloured, Indian and White males and
Coloured, Indian and White females and persons with disabilities. (Grade B
and C) Coloured, Indian and White males and Coloured, Indian and White
females and persons with disabilities.
47
POST 38/52 : REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/6
Office of the Minister: Land Reform and Rural Development
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate. Job related
knowledge: Knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as the ability to
capture data and operate a computer. Working knowledge and understanding
of the legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of
storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working environment.
Understanding of the work in registry. Job related skills: Planning and
organisation, Computer literacy, Language and Communication (verbal and
written). Interpersonal relations. Flexibility and work within a team.
DUTIES : Provide registry counter services. Attend to clients. Handle telephonic and
other enquiries received. Receive and register hand delivered mail / files.
Handle incoming and outgoing correspondence. Receive, sort, register and
dispatch all mail. Distribute notices on registry issues. Render an effective filing
and record management service. Opening and close files according to record
classification system. Filing/storage, tracing (electronically/manually) and
retrieval of documents and files. Complete index cards for all files. Operate
office machines in relation to the registry function. Open and maintain Franking
machine register. Frank post, record money and update register on a daily
basis. Undertake spot checks on post to ensure no private post is included.
Lock post in postbag for messengers to deliver to the Post Office. Open and
maintain remittance register. Record all valuable articles as prescribed in the
remittance register. Hand delivers and signs over remittances to finance. Send
wrong remittances back to sender via registered post and record reference
number in register. Keep daily record of number of letters franked. Process
documents for archiving and/disposal. Electronic scanning of files. Sort and
package files for archives and distribution. Compile list of documents to be
archived and submit to the supervisor. Keep records for archived documents.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SF Xaba Tel No: (012) 312 9395
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to P6@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured,
Indian and White Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 38/53 : REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/7
Office of the Deputy Minister: Land Reform and Rural Development
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate. Job related
knowledge: Knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as the ability to
capture data and operate a computer. Working knowledge and understanding
of the legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of
storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working environment.
Understanding of the work in registry. Job related skills: Planning and
organisation, Computer literacy, Language and Communication (verbal and
written). Interpersonal relations. Flexibility and work within a team.
DUTIES : Provide registry counter services. Attend to clients. Handle telephonic and
other enquiries received. Receive and register hand delivered mail/files.
Handle incoming and outgoing correspondence. Receive, sort, register and
dispatch all mail. Distribute notices on registry issues. Render an effective filing
and record management service. Opening and close files according to record
classification system. Filing/storage, tracing (electronically/manually) and
retrieval of documents and files. Complete index cards for all files. Operate
office machines in relation to the registry function. Open and maintain Franking
machine register. Frank post, record money and update register on a daily
basis. Undertake spot checks on post to ensure no private post is included.
Lock post in postbag for messengers to deliver to the Post Office. Open and
maintain remittance register. Record all valuable articles as prescribed in the
remittance register. Hand delivers and signs over remittances to finance. Send
wrong remittances back to sender via registered post and record reference
number in register. Keep daily record of number of letters franked. Process
documents for archiving and/disposal. Electronic scanning of files. Sort and
48
package files for archives and distribution. Compile list of documents to be
archived and submit to the supervisor. Keep records for archived documents.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SF Xaba Tel No: (012) 312 9395
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to P7@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured,
Indian and White Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 38/54 : DRIVER / MESSENGER REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/8
Office of The Minister: Land Reform and Rural Development
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 10 Certificate / Adult Basic
Education and Training (ABET) qualification and a valid driver’s licence. Job
related knowledge: Knowledge of the city(ies) in which the function will be
performed. Job related skills: Organising, Good communication (written and
verbal), Interpersonal and Basic literacy. A reliable and creative individual who
is prepared to work under pressure and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Drive light and medium vehicles to transport passengers and deliver other
items (mail, documents, office equipment). Collect, distribute and control
movement of documents. Do routine maintenance on the allocated vehicle and
report defects timely. Perform daily pre and post trip vehicle inspection to
ensure that the vehicle is always in the best condition. Complete all the
required and prescribed records and logbooks with regard to the vehicle and
the goods handled. Maintain accurate and up to date schedule trip sheets i.e.
log official trips, daily mileage. Collect and deliver documentation and related
items in the Departmental/Branch or any other component within the
Departmental related external parties. Ensure proper and secure control over
movement of documents. Assist in registry functions. File incoming
correspondence and help trace the file. Copy and fax documents.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SF Xaba Tel No: (012) 312 9395
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to P8@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured,
Indian and White Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 38/55 : DRIVER / MESSENGER REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/9
Office of The Deputy Minister: Land Reform and Rural Development
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 10 Certificate / Adult Basic
Education and Training (ABET) qualification and a valid driver’s licence. Job
related knowledge: Knowledge of the city(ies) in which the function will be
performed. Job related skills: Organising, Good communication (written and
verbal), Interpersonal and Basic literacy. A reliable and creative individual who
is prepared to work under pressure and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Drive light and medium vehicles to transport passengers and deliver other
items (mail, documents, office equipment). Collect, distribute and control
movement of documents. Do routine maintenance on the allocated vehicle and
report defects timely. Perform daily pre and post trip vehicle inspection to
ensure that the vehicle is always in the best condition. Complete all the
required and prescribed records and logbooks with regard to the vehicle and
the goods handled. Maintain accurate and up to date schedule trip sheets i.e.
log official trips, daily mileage. Collect and deliver documentation and related
items in the Departmental/Branch or any other component within the
Departmental related external parties. Ensure proper and secure control over
movement of documents. Assist in registry functions. File incoming
correspondence and help trace the file. Copy and fax documents.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SF Xaba Tel No: (012) 312 9395
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to P9@dlrrd.gov.za
49
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured,
Indian and White Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 38/56 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/10
Office of the Minister: Land Reform and Rural Development
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 10 Certificate / Adult Basic
Education and Training (ABET) qualification. Job related knowledge:
Knowledge of Food service aid. Basic hygiene. Cleaning. Job related skills:
Communication (verbal and written), Professional personal presentation,
Customer service orientation, Confidentiality, The ability to work under
pressure, Problem analysis and decision-making, Confident and independent,
The ability to work long hours. Integrity and honest, Friendly, adaptability and
Accuracy.
DUTIES : Maintaining general hygienic environment. Follow hygiene and safety
directives in the food service unit. Report broken apparatus and equipment.
Maintain safety measures for apparatus and equipment. Ensure compliance of
Occupational Health and Safety Act. Assist in providing a safe work
environment by sweeping or mopping as needed. Provide food service aid.
Wash dishes, microwaves and refrigerators. Clean equipment used in
preparation of food. Maintain work area and equipment in a clean, hygienic and
orderly condition. Collect, deliver, transport and place waste in a bin as needed.
Render food service in the boardroom and offices. Prepare and arrange food
and water to employees during meetings from the boardroom. Distribute food
and water to employees at the boardroom as required. Manage boardroom
utensils and any other equipment. Retrieve eaten food from the boardroom.
Set-up, deliver and serve at special catering functions during meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SF Xaba Tel No: (012) 312 9395
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to P10@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian
and White Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 38/57 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2025/11
Office of the Deputy Minister: Land Reform and Rural Development
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 10 Certificate / Adult Basic
Education and Training (ABET) qualification. Job related knowledge:
Knowledge of Food service aid. Basic hygiene. Cleaning. Job related skills:
Communication (verbal and written), Professional personal presentation,
Customer service orientation, Confidentiality, The ability to work under
pressure, Problem analysis and decision-making, Confident and independent,
The ability to work long hours. Integrity and honest, Friendly, adaptability and
Accuracy.
DUTIES : Maintaining general hygienic environment. Follow hygiene and safety
directives in the food service unit. Report broken apparatus and equipment.
Maintain safety measures for apparatus and equipment. Ensure compliance of
Occupational Health and Safety Act. Assist in providing a safe work
environment by sweeping or mopping as needed. Provide food service aid.
Wash dishes, microwaves and refrigerators. Clean equipment used in
preparation of food. Maintain work area and equipment in a clean, hygienic and
orderly condition. Collect, deliver, transport and place waste in a bin as needed.
Render food service in the boardroom and offices. Prepare and arrange food
and water to employees during meetings from the boardroom. Distribute food
and water to employees at the boardroom as required. Manage boardroom
utensils and any other equipment. Retrieve eaten food from the boardroom.
Set-up, deliver and serve at special catering functions during meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SF Xaba Tel No: (012) 312 9395
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to P11@dlrrd.gov.za
50
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian
and White Females and Persons with disabilities.
51
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF MILITARY VETERANS
The department of military veterans is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer. it is our intention
to promote representativity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of these posts and candidates
whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote representativity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your applications, quoting the relevant reference number, to the
Department of Military Veterans, Private Bag X943, Pretoria, 0001 or hand
deliver at Department of Military Veterans corner 328 Festival & Arcadia
Streets, Hatfield, Pretoria, 0001. Applications must be submitted on a new Z83
Form, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
http://www.dmv.gov.za/documents/Z83.pdf
FOR ATTENTION : Acting Director-General: Military Veterans
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025 at 15h30
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a new Z83 Form, obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the internet at
http://www.dmv.gov.za/documents/Z83.pdf which must be signed (an unsigned
Z83 form will disqualify an application) and should be accompanied by a
recently updated, comprehensive CV with contactable references (telephone
numbers and email addresses must be indicated) as well as certified
documents of ID and qualifications. It is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure
that foreign qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA). This is not a full-time appointment. Shortlisted candidates
will be invited for interviews.
OTHER POST
POST 38/58 : INVITATION TO SERVE AS THE DEPARTMENT OF MILITARY VETERANS
RISK COMMITTEE: CHAIRPERSON
(3-year contract)
SALARY : Chairperson will be remunerated in accordance with the rates as determined
by the National Treasury from time to time.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should have extensive experience in corporate governance, strong
leadership, analytical and good communication skills, sound knowledge and
including, (a) in possession of a post degree or equivalent qualification in any
of the following fields: Accounting/Risk Management/Financial
Management/Auditing/Legal or Business/Information Communication
Technology, b), at least 10+ years’ experience in the risk management
environment, c) should be independent and knowledgeable of the status of
their positions as a chairperson, (d) a member of a professional body., (e)
having experience of serving in Boards of Directors and/or similar committees.
The following will be an added advantage: Experience in or knowledge of the
public sector. Knowledge and understanding of internal controls, project
management, governance, risk management principles and accounting
practices. Knowledge and understanding of and exposure to
legislation/policies (Risk Management and Corporate Governance, EWRM,
COSO model, PSRMF, PFMA, GRAP, GAAP, Treasury Regulations and
relevant legislation and practice notes). Knowledge and understanding of ICT,
including the roles of internal and external audit. Integrity, dedication,
inquisitiveness within reasonableness of probing, an enquiring mind, analytical
reasoning abilities, and a good understanding of the committee’s position in
the governance structure, thorough understanding of corporate governance
principles. Membership with the Institute of Risk Management South Africa will
be an added advantage.
DUTIES : The candidate will chair the Department’s Risk Management Committee and
discharge its responsibilities as set out in the Risk Management charter,
regulations/codes: to provide an oversight role regarding: monitoring the
implementation of risk management within the Department, review the risk
policies, strategies and other working procedures. Consider reports from Risk
Owners regarding the implementation status of risk management action plans
to be instituted and ensure compliance with such plans. Guide the integration
of risk management into planning, monitoring and reporting processes. Provide
reports to the audit committee and the Director General on a quarterly basis,
52
management and other oversight committees. Ensure that the risk
management committee meets at least three times yearly.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P.J Sengwane Tel No: (012) 765 9358
53
ANNEXURE I
DEPARTMENT OF MINERAL AND PETROLEUM RESOURCES
APPLICATIONS : An indication of such, in this regard will be vital in the processing of
applications. N.B: Kindly note that the Department provides for four methods
of submitting a job application, namely: Post, courier, hand delivery and email.
Applicants are urged to choose/ utilise one of the methods provided above.
You may forward your application, quoting reference, addressed to: The
Director-General, Department of Mineral and Petroleum Resources, Private
Bag X59, Pretoria, 0001. Alternatively, applications may also be hand delivered
to Trevenna Campus, corner Meintjies and Francis Baard Street, former
Schoeman. Another option is to submit application through email as a single
scanned document/ One PDF attachment to the email addresses specified for
each position. (Kindly note that the emailed applications and attachments
should not exceed 15mb). General enquiries may be brought to the attention
of Ms. T Gumede Tel No: (012) 444- 3319.
CLOSING DATE : 07 November 2025
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the recent Z83 application form which came
into effect from 01 January 2021 as issued by the Minister of Public Service
Administration in line with regulation 10 of the Public Service Regulations, 2016
as amended, which is obtainable online from www.gov.za and
www.dpsa.gov.za. All sections of the Z83 must be completed (In full, accurately,
legibly, honestly, initialled, signed and dated), and accompanied by a
comprehensive/ detailed Curriculum Vitae only. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit the Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents will be required from shortlisted
candidates only on or before the day of the interview. The Curriculum Vitae
must have at least three (3) reference persons and their contacts. Failure to
provide accurate information on a job application as well as incomplete
information will result in a disqualification. Job applicants in possession of a
foreign qualification(s), must also provide an evaluation certificate obtainable
from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). If an invitation for an
interview is not received within three (3) months after the closing date, please
regard your application as unsuccessful. Requirements stated on the
advertised posts are minimum inherent requirements; therefore, criteria for
shortlisting will depend on the proficiency of the applications received.
Shortlisted candidates will be assessed through practical exercise and an oral
interview. Applicants must note that personnel suitability checks (PSC) will be
conducted on the short-listed applicants, therefore will be required to give
consent in terms of the POPI Act in order for the Department to conduct this
exercise. PSC includes security screening and vetting, qualification
verification, criminal records, financial records checks. Applicants who do not
comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well as application
received after the closing date will not be considered. If an applicant wishes to
withdraw an application, He/ She must do so in writing. It is also important to
note that the Department reserves the right not to fill any advertised post at any
stage of the recruitment process. The Department of Mineral and Petroleum
Resources (DMPR) is an equal opportunity; affirmative action employer and it
is its intention to promote representivity in the Public Sector through the filling
of this post. Persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote
representivity are encouraged to apply, particularly persons with disabilities
and women interested in senior management positions.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 38/59 : ECONOMIC ADVISORY SPECIALIST REF NO: 048
This is a re-advert, candidates who applied previously are encouraged to re-
apply
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Master’s degree in economics/ Mineral/ Petroleum Economics (NQF 9), plus a
minimum of 8 years’ experience within the Economics environment of which 5
years is at a Senior Managerial level: Knowledge of: Macro and micro
economic analysis. Understanding of Minerals and Petroleum Resources
54
policies and legislation. Understanding of principles of research methodology
and policy analysis. Government processes. Development and Implementation
of policy. Financial Management. Project Management. Research. Strategic
planning. Government policies. Skills: Problem solving, Communication
(Verbal, written, liaison). Influencing skills. Negotiation skills. Proven
management skills, Management & Organisation skills. Advanced Analytical
skills. Good interpersonal relation at all levels. Conflict Management skills.
Creativity and innovation. Numerical. Organising and Coordinating. Facilitation
and implementation. Financial Management. Negotiation and consultation
skills. Problem solving and analysis. Strategic capability and leadership,
Thinking demands: Creative/Innovative thinker. Ability to analyse financial
information and Logical.
DUTIES : Provide leadership, research and analysis in the minerals and petroleum
economic sector. Advice and assist management with strategic issues on all
economic related matters. Mentor DMPR officials in all matters related to the
economic sector (transfer of skills to identified internal employees). Ensure the
preservation of specialist technical knowledge and information for business
continuity.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Nzimande Tel No: (012) 444 3004
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment014@dmre.gov.za
NOTE : No appointment shall be affected without the recommended candidate
producing a Certificate of completion for the SMS Pre-Entry Programme
(Nyukela) offered by the National School of government which can be
accessed via this link: https://www.thensg.gov.za. Candidates will undergo a
compulsory competency, technical and integrity assessment. The Candidate
will have to disclose her/ his financial Interests. Candidates who are applying
online are requested to upload one document as attachment on a PDF format.
Note: Indian /Coloured / white female or male and persons with disability are
encouraged to apply.
POST 38/60 : DIRECTOR: REGIONAL OFFICE (REGIONAL PETROLEUM
CONTROLLER) REF NO: 049
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Limpopo Region, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Natural Sciences, Engineering, Economics, Accounting, Marketing,
Finance, Project Management or Energy Studies (NQF 7) plus minimum of 5
years’ experience at a middle/senior managerial level in a petroleum
environment and Valid Driver’s Licence. Knowledge of: Project Management,
basic project finance and economics, industry and public sector, project finance
and economics, industry and public sector policies, strategies and legislation
in the field of petroleum, people management. Knowledge of the petroleum
industry. Skills: Communication. Project Management. Report writing and
presentation. Decision-making. Interpersonal. Negotiation. Computer. Time
management and work planning. Analytical, project management and financial.
Thinking Demand: Rigorous non-corrupting thinking relating in the
development and implementation of strategy and legislation.
DUTIES : Manage and oversee the Petroleum Licensing applications process in the
region within prescribed time frames. Ensure security of supply of petroleum
products at the regional level through auditing of stock levels at
refineries/depots and retailers. Conduct impact study for new application to the
market. Interact with stakeholders at regional level. Manage the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. G Leketi Tel No: (012) 444 3070
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment015@dmre.gov.za
NOTE : No appointment shall be affected without the recommended candidate
producing a Certificate of completion for the SMS Pre-Entry Programme
(Nyukela) offered by the National School of government which can be
accessed via this link: https://www.thensg.gov.za. Candidates will undergo a
compulsory competency, technical and integrity assessment. The Candidate
will have to disclose her/ his financial Interests. Candidates who are applying
online are requested to upload one document as attachment on a PDF format.
Note: Indian /Coloured/ White male and persons with disability are encouraged
to apply.
55
OTHER POST
POST 38/61 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MINE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT REF
NO: 050)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Northern Cape, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree/ BTech / Advanced Diploma in Environmental Management/
Environmental Science/ Natural Science (NQF7) and a minimum of 3 years’
experience in the industry and Valid Driver’s Licence/Environmental
Assessment Practitioner Certificate. Knowledge of: Integrated environmental
management relative to prospecting and mining work programmes. Knowledge
of impact assessment remediation and evaluation method. Knowledge of
environmental legislation. Knowledge of mining methods, mining processes,
mining waste generation and disposal. Knowledge of new computer software
available in the market. Knowledge of the principles and application of
management. Skills: Good negotiation skills. Good research skills. Integration
of social, economic, bio-physical and cultural-historical impacts. Personnel
Management. Working and creating teamwork. Good verbal and non- verbal
Communication skills, Excellent English reading and writing skills. Thinking
Demand: Pragmatic environmental. Problem- solving abilities. Innovative
thinking abilities. Ability to manage diverse public demands.
DUTIES : Evaluate Environmental Management Program plan, Environmental Impact
Assessments, Scoping reports, closure plans and other technical and
environmental documents and make recommendations thereon. Monitor,
inspect, audit and assess environmental performance of mines. Regulate the
closure of mines within the stipulated tome frames. Identify the environment
liabilities for operations and ensure the evaluation of adequacy of financial
provision. Conduct investigations and implement appropriate measures to
resolve environmental concerns, disputes, and complaints involving the mining
sector and affected stakeholder. Oversee the rehabilitation of liquidated and
incapacitated mines. Provide managerial activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. V Muila Tel No: (053) 807 1716
APPLICATIONS : Email to Recruitment016@dmre.gov.za
NOTE : Candidate will undergo practical exercise and integrity assessments.
Candidates who are applying online are requested to upload one document as
attachment on a PDF format. Note: Indian/ Coloured or white male and persons
with disability are encouraged to apply
56
ANNEXURE J
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY
APPLICATIONS : All applications must be submitted to the relevant Recruitment Response e-
mail addresses indicated under each post.
CLOSING DATE : 03 November 2025
NOTE : The NPA invites South African unemployed learners on a TVET placement
programme for a period of 24 months. The beneficiaries of this programme
should be studying for a higher education qualification. and must undertake a
period of work experience in order to fulfill the Requirements: s of the
qualification. TVET Placement is a once-off opportunity for learners and those
that have previously participated in the programme shall not be considered.
People with disabilities are encouraged to apply, Generic Requirements: Must
be a South African citizen, Must have no criminal conviction(s) or case pending,
Learners must be unemployed and never have participated in the programme
Learners must reside in the province where placement is advertised Applicants
must submit applications on the most recent Z83 form, which can be obtained
on the website of any Public Service Department or on the DPSA website link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za The Z83 must be accompanied by a comprehensive
CV. Failure to submit applications in the prescribed manner, will result in your
application being disqualified. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents.
Applicants must apply to only one (1) centre or location. Should an application
be submitted to more than one (1) center or location, the applicant will be
disqualified from the process. All applications must reach the NPA on/or before
the closing date. No late applications will be accepted/processed. The NPA
cannot be held responsible for server delays. Applicants’ attention is drawn to
the fact that the NPA uses an Electronic Response Handling System.
Applications submitted in any other way other than the published e-mail
address will be treated as invalid. Please do not contact the NPA directly after
you have e-mailed your application to enquire if your application has been
received. If you have not received an acknowledgement of receipt within one
week after the closing date, only then may you contact the NPA through the
enquiries person listed in the advert. The NPA reserves the right not to fill any
particular position. If you do not hear from us within six (6) months from the
closing date of the advert, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Fingerprints will be taken on the day of the interview. The social
media accounts of shortlisted applicants may be accessed as part of the
verification process. Applicants are advised that as from 1 January 2021 a new
Z83 application form is in use. The new application for employment form (Z83)
can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. From 1 January 2021 an
application should be received using the incorrect (old) application for
employment (Z83), it will not be considered. NB! Applicants who are successful
must please note that the NPA is not in a position to pay resettlement costs.
NB: Stipend will be aligned to the DPSA Remuneration Schedule for the
Developmental Programmes.
INTERNSHIPS FOR 2026 - 2028
(24 month)
OTHER POSTS
POST 38/62 : INTERN: INFORMATION TECNOLOGY (X17 POSTS)
Information System Management
STIPEND : R7 142. per month
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office Ref No: ITHQ
Johannesburg Ref No: JHBIT
Pretoria Ref No: PTAIT
Bisho Ref No: BISHOIT
Durban Ref No: DBNIT
Mmabatho Ref No: MMBIT
Port Elizabeth Ref No: PLZIT
Bloemfontein Ref No: BFNIT
Grahamstown Ref No: GRHMIT
Kimberley Ref No: KIMIT
57
Polokwane Ref No: PLKIT
Pietermaritzburg Ref No: PMBIT
Mthatha Ref No: MTHAIT
Mpumalanga (Nelspruit) Ref No: NELSIT
East London Ref No: ELDIT
Cape Town Ref No: CTNIT
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree or 3-year National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Information
Technology, Desktop Support/Technical Support/Application
Support/Communication Network and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Pontsho Rantsana Tel No: (012) 845 7059
APPLICATIONS : e mail Pretoria: Head Office ithq@npa.gov.za
Johannesburg e mail jhbit@npa.gov.za
Pretoria e mail ptait@npa.gov.za
Bisho e mail bishoit@npa.gov.za
Durban e mail dbnit@npa.gov.za
Mmabatho e mail mmbit@npa.gov.za
Port Elizabeth e mail plzit@npa.gov.za
Bloemfontein e mail bfnit@npa.gov.za
Grahamstown e mail grhmit@npa.gov.za
Kimberley e mail kimit@npa.gov.za
Polokwane e mail plkit@npa.gov.za
Pietermaritzburg e mail pmbit@npa.gov.za
Mthatha e mail: mthait@npa.gov.za
Mpumalanga (Nelspruit) e mail nelsit@npa.gov.za
East London e mail eldit@npa.gov.za
Cape Town e mail ctnit@npa.gov.za
POST 38/63 : INTERN: PUBLIC MANAGEMENT REF NO: OEAPUBA (X2 POSTS)
Office for Ethics and Accountability
STIPEND : R7 142. per month
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree or 3-year National Diploma or in Public Management and/or
relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Tlou Mohlaba Tel No: (012) 845 6193
APPLICATIONS : e mail oeapuba@npa.gov.za
POST 38/64 : INTERN: INDUSTRIAL PSYCHOLOGY REF NO: IPSYOD (X1 POST)
Organisational Development
STIPEND : R7 142. per month
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree in Industrial Psychology and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Eunice Phago Tel No: (012) 845 6138
APPLICATIONS : e mail ipsyod@npa.gov.za
POST 38/65 : INTERN: SECURITY MANAGEME NT REF NO: SRM (X3 POSTS)
Security and Risk Management
STIPEND : R7 142. per month
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree or 3-year National Diploma in Security Management or
Social Science and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Tlou Mohlaba Tel No: (012) 845 6193
APPLICATIONS : e mail srm@npa.gov.za
POST 38/66 : INTERN: STRATEGY MANAGEMENT REF NO: SMOHQ (X4 POSTS)
Strategy Management Office
STIPEND : R7 142. per month
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree or 3-year National Diploma in Business Management,
Public administration Finance, Internal Audit, Commerce Statistics or
Developmental Studies and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Tlou Mohlaba Tel No: (012) 845 6193
APPLICATIONS : e mail smohq@npa.gov.za
58
POST 38/67 : INTERN: ACCOUNTING, BUSINESS MANAGEMENT REF NO: GRHM (X2
POSTS)
DPP: Grahamstown (Makhanda)
STIPEND : R7 142. per month
CENTRE : Makhanda
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree or 3-year National Diploma in Accounting, Logistics,
Business Management or Business Administration and/or relevant
qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Masixole Kate Tel No: (046) 602 3001
APPLICATIONS : e mail grhm@npa.gov.za
POST 38/68 : INTERN: HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT REF NO: HRMG (X1
POST)
DPP: Grahamstown (Makhanda)
STIPEND : R7 142. per month
CENTRE : Makhanda
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree or 3-year National Diploma in Human Resource
Management and/or relevant qualification
ENQUIRIES : Pumza Magaxa Tel No: (046) 602 3025
APPLICATIONS : e mail hrmg@npa.gov.za
POST 38/69 : INTERN: ARCHIVES REF NO: ARCPLK (X1 POST)
DPP: Limpopo
STIPEND : R7 142. per month
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree or 3-year National Diploma in Archives and Records
Management and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Tlou Seroto Tel No: (015) 045 0182
APPLICATIONS : e mail arcplk@npa.gov.za
POST 38/70 : INTERN: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: LABR (X2 POSTS)
Employee Relations
STIPEND : R7 142. per month
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree or 3-year National Diploma in Labour Relations, LLB and/or
relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Eunice Phago Tel No: (012) 845 6138
APPLICATIONS : e mail labr@npa.gov.za
POST 38/71 : INTERN: TRANSFORMATION REF NO: HRTHQ (X1 POST)
Human Resource Transformation
STIPEND : R7 142. per month
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree in Social Work and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Eunice Phago Tel No: (012) 845 6138
APPLICATIONS : e mail hrthq@npa.gov.za
POST 38/72 : INTERN: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REF NO: CTNPUBA (X1 POST)
DPP: Cape Town
STIPEND : R7 142.per month
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree in Public Administration and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Andiswa Nohashe Tel No: (021) 487 7128
APPLICATIONS : e mail ctnpuba@npa.gov.za
POST 38/73 : INTERN: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REF NO: PMBPUBA (X1 POST)
DPP: Pietermaritzburg
STIPEND : R7 142. per month
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg
59
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree or 3-year National Diploma in Public Administration or
Management and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Thabsile Radebe Tel No: (033) 392 8753
APPLICATIONS : e mail pmbpuba@npa.gov.za
POST 38/74 : INTERN: FINANCE REF NO: PMBFIN (X1 POST)
DPP: Pietermaritzburg
STIPEND : R7 142. per month
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree or 3-year National Diploma in Finance and/or relevant
qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Thabsile Radebe Tel No: (033) 392 8753
APPLICATIONS : e mail pmbfin@npa.gov.za
POST 38/75 : INTERN: HUMAN RESOURCES REF NO: HRMP (X1 POST)
DPP: Mpumalanga
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Nelspruit
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 Certificate in Human Resource
Management and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Tebogo Mashile Tel No: (013) 045 0686
APPLICATIONS : e mail hrmp@npa.gov.za
POST 38/76 : INTERN: FINANCE REF NO: FINMP (X1 POST)
DPP: Mpumalanga
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Nelspruit
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 Certificate in Finance and/or relevant
qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Gift Chiloane Tel No: (013) 045 0623
APPLICATIONS : e mail finmp@npa.gov.za
POST 38/77 : INTERN: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REF NO: CTNSOCA (X2 POSTS)
Sexual Offences and Community Affairs: Cape Town
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 Certificate in Public Administration or
Management and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Andiswa Nohashe Tel No: (021) 487 7128
APPLICATIONS : e mail ctnsoca@npa.gov.za
POST 38/78 : INTERN: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REF NO: SOCAHQ (X2 POSTS)
Sexual Offences and Community Affairs: Head Office
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 Certificate in Public Administration or
Management and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Pontsho Rantsana Tel No: (012) 845 7059
APPLICATIONS : e mail socahq@npa.gov.za
POST 38/79 : INTERN: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REF NO: LADHQ (X2 POSTS)
Legal Affairs Division
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 Certificate in Public Administration or
Management and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Peggy Mokoka Tel No: (012) 845 6196
APPLICATIONS : e mail ladhq@npa.gov.za
60
POST 38/80 : INTERN: HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT REF NO: HRMMBT (X2
POSTS)
DPP: Mmabatho
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 Certificate in Human Resource
Management and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Mpho Makgopa Tel No: (018) 381 9064
APPLICATIONS : e mail hrmmbt@npa.gov.za
POST 38/81 : INTERN: FINANCE REF NO: FINMBT (X2 POSTS)
DPP: Mmabatho
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 Certificate in Finance and/or relevant
qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Mpho Makgopa Tel No: (018) 381 9064
APPLICATIONS : email finmbt@npa.gov.za
POST 38/82 : INTERN: HUMAN RESOURCES REF NO: HRMPTA (X1 POST)
DPP: Pretoria
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 Certificate in Human Resource
Management and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Tumisang Basiretsi Tel No: (012) 351 6821
APPLICATIONS : e mail hrmpta@npa.gov.za
POST 38/83 : INTERN: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REF NO: PAPTA (X1 POST)
DPP: Pretoria
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 Public Administration or Management
and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Tumisang Basiretsi Tel No: (012) 351 6821
APPLICATIONS : e mail papta@npa.gov.za
POST 38/84 : INTERN: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REF NO: FLMHQ (X1 POST)
Fleet Management
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 Public Administration or Management
and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Tlou Mahlaba Tel No: (012) 845 6193
APPLICATIONS : e mail flmhq@npa.gov.za
POST 38/85 : INTERN: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REF NO: NPSHQ (X3 POSTS)
National Prosecuting Services
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 Public Administration or Management
and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Peggy Mokoka Tel No: (012) 845 6196
APPLICATIONS : e mail npshq@npa.gov.za
POST 38/86 : INTERN: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REF NO: AFUHQ (X1 POST)
Asset Forfeiture Unit, Head Office
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
61
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 Public Administration or Management
and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Pontsho Rantsana Tel No: (012) 845 7059
APPLICATIONS : e mail afuhq@npa.gov.za
POST 38/87 : INTERN: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REF NO: AFUPTA (X2 POSTS)
Asset Forfeiture Unit: Pretoria
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 Public Administration or Management
and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Selina Moloto Tel No: (012) 845 6486
APPLICATIONS : e mail afupta@npa.gov.a
POST 38/88 : INTERN: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REF NO: HRDPA (X3 POSTS)
Human Resource Development
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 Public Administration or Management
and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Eunice Phago Tel No: (012)845 6138
APPLICATIONS : e mail hrdpa@npa.gov.za
POST 38/89 : INTERN: FINANCE REF NO: BFNFIN (X2 POSTS)
DPP: Bloemfontein
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 in Finance and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Matlotlo Mofokeng Tel No: (051) 410 6005
APPLICATIONS : e mail bfnfin@npa.gov.za
POST 38/90 : INTERN: HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT REF NO: BFNHRM (X2
POSTS)
DPP: Bloemfontein
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 in Human Resource Management
and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Matlotlo Mofokeng Tel No: (051) 410 6005
APPLICATIONS : e mail bfnhrm@npa.gov.za
POST 38/91 : INTERN: HUMAN RESOURSEC MANAGEMENT REF NO: HRMPLK (X1
POST)
DPP: Limpopo
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 Human Resource Management and/or
relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Tlou Seroto Tel No: (015) 045 0182
APPLICATIONS : e mail hrmplk@npa.gov.za
POST 38/92 : INTERN: FINANCE REF NO: PLKFIN (X1 POST)
DPP: Limpopo
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 in Finance and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Tlou Seroto Tel No: (015) 045 0182
APPLICATIONS : e mail plkfin@npa.gov.za
62
POST 38/93 : INTERN: HUMAN RESOURCES REF NO: HRMMTHA (X2 POSTS)
DPP: Mthatha
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 Human Resource and/or relevant
qualification. Management
ENQUIRIES : Nobekezela Madikizela Tel No: (047) 501 2684
APPLICATIONS : e mail hrmmtha@npa.gov.za
POST 38/94 : INTERN: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REF NO: JHBPUBA (X2 POSTS)
DPP: Johannesburg
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 Public Administration or Management
and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Evelyn Mogale Tel No: (011) 220 4227
APPLICATIONS : e mail jhbpuba@npa.gov.za
POST 38/95 : INTERN: FINANCE REF NO: JHBFIN (X2 POSTS)
DPP: Johannesburg
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 in Finance and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Tlou Mohlaba Tel No: (012) 845 6193
APPLICATIONS : email jhbfin@npa.gov.za
POST 38/96 : INTERN: FINANCE REF NO: FINCTN (X1 POST)
DPP: Cape Town
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 Certificate in Finance and/or relevant
qualification.
ENQUIRIES Andiswa Nohashe Tel No: (021) 487 7128
APPLICATIONS : email finctn@npa.gov.za
POST 38/97 : INTERN: HUMAN RESOURCES REF NO: CTNHRM (X2 POSTS)
DPP: Cape Town
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 Certificate in Human Resource
Management and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Andiswa Nohashe Tel No: (021) 487 7128
APPLICATIONS : email ctnhrm@npa.gov.za
POST 38/98 : INTERN: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REF NO: HRDPUBA (X1 POST)
Human Resource Development
STIPEND : R6 659.25 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (Matric), N6 in Public Administration or
Management and/or relevant qualification.
ENQUIRIES : Peggy Mokoka Tel No: (012) 845 6196
APPLICATIONS : email hrdpuba@npa.gov.za
POST 38/99 : INTERN: SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT/SOFTWARE ENGINEERING REF NO:
ISMHQ (X3 POSTS)
Information System Management
STIPEND : R7 142. per month
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree or National Diploma (NQF Level 6) ICT /IT (Systems
Development/ Software Engineering) and/or relevant qualification.
63
ENQUIRIES : Pontsho Rantsana Tel No: (012) 845 7059
APPLICATIONS : e mail ismhq@npa.gov.za
64
ANNEXURE K
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 03 November 2025 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success and the National
Treasury ICT unit was unable to assist. The applicant’s profile on the e-
Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83, and it is the responsibility
of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or their applications
will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note. Certain documentation
will still be required to be uploaded on the system such as copies of all
qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric certificate, ID, etc.,
however these documents need not be certified at point of application, however
certification will be required prior to attending the interview. Please note: All
shortlisted candidates will be subjected to two assessments. The first
assessment will be a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job, while the second assessment will be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment, the logistics of which will be communicated by the
Department. It should be noted that the National Treasury does not support the
use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in any of its recruitment and selection
processes and will disqualify an application if it picks up the use of AI when
completing assessments without acknowledging the source of information.
Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government, available as
an online course on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/, prior to finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS
positions. For SMS positions certain candidates may be required to undergo
additional Psychometric Assessments. All qualifications, criminal and SA
citizenship checks will be conducted on all short-listed candidates and, where
applicable, additional checks will be conducted in line with the new DPSA
Directive effective 01 April 2024. By submitting your application, it also means
you consent to the National Treasury processing your information for Human
Resources Management purposes. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level certificates) evaluated
by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at your own expense.
Upon appointment, successful candidates will be required to sign a
Performance Agreement within 3 months from date of appointment and for
candidates whose appointment exceeds 12 calendar months will be appointed
on probation for the period of twelve (12) calendar months excluding leave
taken as prescribed by Public Service Regulation 68. The status of your
application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system. However, if you have
not received feedback from the National Treasury within 3 months of the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. NOTE: The
National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned posts,
withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. All queries
must be submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment
Support Team on Recruitment.Enquiries@treasury.gov.za The National
Treasury is compliant with the requirements of POPIA.
65
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 38/100 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: DIRECT TAXES REF NO: S053/2025
Division: Tax And Financial Sector Policy (TFSP)
Purpose: To advise the Minister of Finance and the National Treasury on all
matters relating to direct taxes, and to lead the formulation, analysis and
implementation of all direct tax reforms in an evidence-based and strategic
manner that aligns with government’s economic and development objectives.
Reforms should aim to create a tax system that raises sufficient revenue, is
equitable, and is internationally competitive. Direct taxes include personal
income tax, corporate income tax, capital gains tax, withholding taxes on
dividends and interest, estate duty, donations tax and other property-related
taxes.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum Bachelor’s degree (equivalent
to NQF level 7) in Economics or Law or Taxation or Accounting. A minimum of
5 years’ experience at a senior managerial level obtained in a tax policy
environment. In-depth experience in policies formulation and review, In-depth
policy interpretation and advise. Knowledge and experience of the policy
framework on direct taxes formulation and dissemination. Successful
completion of the Nyukela Public Service Senior Management Leadership
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government available as
an online course on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/, prior to finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Policy development and advice: Advise the Minister of Finance and National
Treasury on the design and implementation of reforms to direct tax instruments
to attain an equitable tax system that generates sufficient revenue for the
government’s developmental needs, Lead the development, in co-operation
with SARS, of the annual direct tax proposals to be considered and announced
by the Minister in the Budget Review each year and included in Chapter 4 and
Annexure C, Evaluate the fiscal and distributional impact of the tax policy
proposals included in the Budget and assess how they align with the
governments socio-economic objectives, Develop tax policy proposal papers,
both for internal use and that can be published as discussion documents, to
drive improvements in the direct tax system and to consult on new tax
instruments, Work closely with SARS to ensure that direct tax policy proposals
are administratively implementable and are not excessively burdensome or
complex. Legislative oversight: Provide policy direction and technical
assistance to the Office of the General Counsel to assist with the drafting of tax
legislation that will include all the proposals announced by the Minister. Draft
the Explanatory Memorandum that would accompany the draft bills, Co-
ordinate the analysis of budget submissions and budgetary contributions to
budget documentation (Medium-Term Budget Policy Statement, Budget
Review, Estimates of National Expenditure and Intergovernmental Fiscal
Review). Research and analysis: Facilitate research on direct taxation, both
internal and external, to investigate whether the South African direct tax system
is efficient, effective, equitable and internationally competitive. Monitor global
developments in direct taxes to ensure South Africa remains internationally
competitive and the direct tax system remains up to date and fit for purpose
and is aligned with international best practice. Stakeholder engagement:
Engage with key stakeholders when formulating proposals, including SARS,
other National Treasury divisions and impacted national departments, Lead
engagements with taxpayers in public workshops on amendments to draft
legislation, and engage with labour unions, business associations, academics
and civil society on direct tax matters, Represent National Treasury at
international tax forums, such as those organised by the OECD, IMF and ATAF,
and manage intergovernmental engagements on direct taxation issues.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
66
POST 38/101 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: INDIRECT TAXES REF NO: S054/2025
Division: Tax And Financial Sector Policy (TFSP)
Purpose: To advise the Minister of Finance and the National Treasury on all
matters relating to direct taxes, and to lead the formulation, analysis and
implementation of all indirect tax reforms in an evidence-based and strategic
manner that aligns with government’s economic and development objectives.
Reforms should aim to create a tax system that raises sufficient revenue, is
equitable, and is internationally competitive. Indirect taxes include value added
tax, excise duties (such as those on alcohol and tobacco), fuel levies and
environmental levies (including the carbon tax), amongst others.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum Bachelor’s degree (equivalent
to NQF level 7) in Economics or Law or Taxation or Accounting. A minimum of
5 years’ experience at a senior managerial level obtained in obtained in a tax
policy environment. In-depth experience in policies formulation and review. In-
depth policy interpretation and advise. Knowledge and experience of the policy
framework on indirect taxes formulation and dissemination. Successful
completion of the Nyukela Public Service Senior Management Leadership
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government available as
an online course on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entryprogramme/, prior to finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Policy development and advice: Advise the Minister of Finance and National
Treasury on the design and implementation of reforms to indirect tax
instruments to attain an equitable tax system that generates sufficient revenue
for the government’s developmental needs, Lead the development, in co-
operation with SARS, of the annual indirect tax proposals to be considered and
announced by the Minister in the Budget Review each year and included in
Chapter 4 and Annexure C, Evaluate the fiscal and distributional impact of the
indirect tax policy proposals included in the Budget and assess how they align
with the governments socio-economic objectives, Develop tax policy proposal
papers, both for internal use and that can be published as discussion
documents, to drive improvements in the indirect tax system and to consult on
new tax instruments, Work closely with SARS to ensure that indirect tax policy
proposals are administratively implementable and are not excessively
burdensome or complex. Legislative oversight: Provide policy direction and
technical assistance to the Office of the General Counsel to assist with the
drafting of tax legislation that will include all the proposals announced by the
Minister. Draft the Explanatory Memorandum that would accompany the draft
bills, Present to the Standing Committee on Finance and the Select Committee
on Finance in Parliament on the details and rationales behind the indirect tax
proposals and respond to public submissions and queries in public hearings.
Research and analysis: Facilitate research on indirect taxation, both internal
and external, to investigate whether the South African indirect tax system is
efficient, effective, equitable and internationally competitive. Monitor global
developments in indirect taxes to ensure South Africa remains internationally
competitive and the indirect tax system remains up to date and fit for purpose
and is aligned with international best practice. Stakeholder engagement:
Engage with key stakeholders when formulating proposals, including SARS,
other National Treasury divisions and impacted national departments, Lead
engagements with taxpayers in public workshops on amendments to draft
legislation on indirect taxes, and engage with labour unions, business
associations, academics and civil society on indirect tax matters, Represent
National Treasury at international tax forums, such as those organised by the
OECD, IMF and ATAF, and manage intergovernmental engagements on
indirect taxation issues.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 38/102 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: TAX REVENUE AND POLICY COSTINGS REF NO:
S055/2025
Division: Tax And Financial Sector Policy (TFSP)
Purpose: To lead the development and maintenance of tax revenue forecasting
and micro-simulation models and provide quantitative analysis on the revenue
and distributional implications of tax proposals
SALARY : R1 494 900 - R1 781 328 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
67
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum Bachelor’s degree (equivalent
to NQF level 7) in Econometrics or Statistics or Mathematics. A minimum of 5
years’ experience at a senior managerial level obtained in research and tax
policy analysis and formulation. Knowledge and experience of the broader
policy framework on tax revenue and related tax matters. Successful
completion of the Nyukela Public Service Senior Management Leadership
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government available as
an online course on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/, prior to finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Develop Statistical and Econometric Techniques to Improve on the Quality and
Accuracy of Tax Revenue Estimates: Develop statistical and econometric
models to forecast tax revenues, Provide basic regression techniques on more
advanced econometric and statistical modelling Develop statistical and
econometric techniques to improve on the quality and accuracy of tax revenue
estimates of macro and micro data. Develop Micro Simulation Models for
Personal Income Tax (PIT), Corporate Income Tax (CIT) and Value-Added Tax
(VAT): Develop and update Excel based micro simulation models to simulate
policy options for Personal Income Tax (PIT), Corporate Income Tax (CIT) and
Value-Added Tax (VAT) Utilise micro simulation models to estimate the revenue
and distributional impacts of proposed policy interventions. Prepare Tax
Revenue Estimates for the Annual Budget and Revised Estimates of MTBPS:
Develop and implement estimates of tax revenue by tax instruments, focusing
mainly on PIT, VAT, CIT, Fuel taxes, Vat Excise and Customs duties, Prepare
revised tax revenue estimates of the MTBPS. Monitor Monthly Tax Revenues
to Track and Revise Tax Revenue Estimates: Monitor monthly tax revenues to
track deviations from estimates and provide credible explanations for
deviations by tax instrument. Convene Revenue Analysis Working Committee
(RAWC): Arrange the convening of the Revenue Analysis Working Committee
(RAWC) meetings, Prepare the tax revenues estimates on behalf of TFSP for
these meetings, Motivate discrepancies detected in estimates within the
RAWC meetings and keep records of decisions. Estimate Revenue
Implications of Tax Proposals and Economic. Impacts of Various Taxes: Initiate
analysis and assist with estimating the revenue implications of specific tax
proposals, Justify and motivate the quantification of economic impacts of
various taxes.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 38/103 : DIRECTOR: CAPITAL PROJECTS APPRAISAL REF NO: S050/2025
Division: Budget Office (BO)
Purpose: To lead the technical evaluation of infrastructure appraisals and
proposals pertaining to projects that require National Treasury support to
progress and advise across all stages of infrastructure development.
SALARY : R1 226 714 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum Bachelor’s degree (equivalent
to NQF level 7) in Development Finance or Economics or Public Policy. A
minimum of 5 years’ experience at a middle or senior managerial level obtained
in infrastructure appraisal and evaluation, infrastructure policy and research,
and/or project development environment. Knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act, Municipal Financial Management Act, Treasury Regulations,
and PPPs. Detailed knowledge of the public investment management system
including institutional arrangements, public finance terrain and government
policy processes. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service Senior
Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Development and promotion of appraisal tools and methodologies: Develop
and maintain standardised capital appraisal guidelines, tools and
methodologies in line with best practice, Mainstream the consideration of
climate impacts in the appraisal process to ensure resilience and sustainability
post investment, Ensure coherent implementation of capital appraisal
guidelines, tools and methodologies across all spheres of government and
public institutions Contribute to the design and rollout of capacity building
initiatives to promote the use of standardised appraisal guidelines, tools and
68
methodologies Analysis of projects: Lead the compilation of appraisal review
reports to advise on the feasibility, viability and sustainability of non-PPP
projects, Coordinate and support the independent appraisal review functions
of the Budget Facility for Infrastructure, Collaborate with Director: Infrastructure
Regulations to undertake PPP reviews across all stages of development,
Develop a database of micro- and macro-economic indicators to assist in the
appraisal review process, Conduct ex post analysis, and monitoring and
evaluation of infrastructure investments made, advise on value for money
attained and other socio-economic achievements Sector analysis and
research: Analyse the impacts of projects on the fiscus and economy, develop
prioritisation models and support post investment analysis, Coordinate internal
and external forums related to infrastructure developments, sectoral updates
and trends analysis. Policy development, advise and implementation:
Contribute to the development and updating of a unified public investment
management system that underpins efficient and effective infrastructure
development and delivery, Formulate and update systems and processes that
enables the consideration of Budget Facility for Infrastructure
recommendations into budget approval processes, Undertake research and
analysis of national infrastructure policies and plans to advise on the efficacy
of delivery and value for money assessment Provide support and updates
related to infrastructure during budget processes: Initiate the review of
infrastructure tables and provision of inputs into the general MTEF guidelines,
Manage the liaison with key public sector institutions including departments
and public entities rendering infrastructure to maintain a database of
infrastructure projects, spending and plans, Incorporate with the ENE timetable
and organise and arrange the verification of a central reconciliation of
infrastructure databases, Provide support to the MTBPS and Budget Review
by analysing and compiling of infrastructure expenditure figures and estimates,
and provision of inputs into chapters with regards to infrastructure trends,
developments and narrative.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 38/104 : DIRECTOR: PPP REGULATIONS REF NO: S059/2025
Division: Budget Office (BO)
Purpose: To develop and implement infrastructure regulations that create an
enabling environment for scaling-up private sector participation in public
infrastructure whilst managing fiscal risks pertaining to Public Private
Partnerships (PPPs) and non-PPP infrastructure policies, regulations and
guidelines.
SALARY : R1 226 714 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum Bachelor’s degree (equivalent
to NQF level 7) in Development Finance or Economics or Legal. A minimum of
5 years’ experience at a middle or senior managerial level obtained in Private
Public Partnership (PPP) project development, transaction advisory, appraisal
and evaluation, procurement and contract management. Knowledge of the
Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations, National Treasury’s
Public-Private Partnership Manual. Knowledge of the Municipal Finance
Management Act, the Municipal Regulations, and Municipal Service Delivery
and PPP Guidelines. Detailed knowledge of the public infrastructure landscape
including institutional arrangements, public finance terrain and government
policy processes. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service Senior
Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Develop enablers of private sector participation in public infrastructure:
Develop and maintain a coherent public investment management framework
that underpins private sector participation in public infrastructure, Formulate
and update policies, regulations, guidelines, systems and processes that
facilitate the scaling up of private sector participation in public infrastructure,
Coordinate and maintain standardised tools and methodologies that drive the
attainment of value for money, appropriate risk transfer, affordability and bolster
state capability in projects that involve private sector participation, Contribute
to the design and rollout of capacity building initiatives for infrastructure and
complex projects that involve the private sector participation. Maintain and
69
update PPP policy and regulatory framework: Initiate periodic benchmark of
South Africa’s PPP policy and regulatory framework against global best
practices, Conduct assessment and analysis of the efficacy of South Africa’s
PPP policy and regulatory framework in promoting the uptake of alternative of
infrastructure financing, procurement and delivery arrangements, Explore how
the National Treasury can support the uptake of PPP projects using its fiscal
levers and tools, Manage the inception, feasibility and procurement stages of
the PPP project lifecycle: Manage the registration of potential PPP projects and
the support to public institutions on such projects, Execute the regulatory
requirements pertaining to the feasibility study phase of the PPP project cycle,
Execute the regulatory outputs of the procurement phase of the PPP project
cycle, Manage the development, delivery and exit phases of the PPP project
lifecycle: Execute the regulatory functions pertaining to the contracting PPP
agreements phase, Execute the regulatory functions relating to the
amendment and variation of PPP agreements, Manage and advocate for the
PPP performance monitoring and evaluation framework. Provide support and
updates related to infrastructure during budget processes: Initiate the review
of infrastructure tables and provision of inputs into the general MTEF
guidelines, Manage the liaison with key public sector institutions including
departments and public entities rendering infrastructure to maintain a database
of infrastructure projects, spending and plans, Incorporate with the ENE
timetable and organise and arrange the verification of a central reconciliation
of infrastructure databases, Provide support to the MTBPS and Budget Review
by analysing and compiling of infrastructure expenditure figures and estimates,
and provision of inputs into chapters with regards to infrastructure trends,
developments and narrative, Prepare and supply information related to fiscal
commitments and contingent liabilities.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 38/105 : SENIOR ECONOMIST: ENVIRONMENTAL AND FUEL TAXES REF NO:
S057/2025
Division: Tax And Financial Sector Policy (TFSP)
Purpose: To conduct economic research and policy analysis on the design and
implementation of carbon pricing policies, transport taxes and incentives to
promote decarbonisation of the transport sector.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6)/ Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Environment,
Energy or Transport Economics and Environmental Science/Environmental
Management. An Honours Degree would be advantageous. A minimum of 5
years’ experience in economic research and policy analysis. Knowledge and
experience in quantitative techniques and tools, excel and other statistical
packages and econometric modelling. Knowledge and experience in climate,
transport and energy policy development. Knowledge and experience in public
policy processes and stakeholder engagement.
DUTIES : Market Based Fiscal instruments to Support Climate Change Mitigation and
Adaptation in the transport sector: Conduct economic research, policy analysis
and reviews on price based instruments including carbon taxes, incentives,
charges and subsidies to support the decarbonisation of the transport sector,
Conduct economic research, policy analysis and reviews on quantity-based
environmental fiscal instruments to support Climate Change adaptation and
mitigation including carbon market mechanisms under Article 6 of the Paris
Agreement, and carbon budgets and sector emission targets, Consult with the
Departments of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment, Transport, Mineral
and Petroleum Resources, Electricity and Energy and the South African
Revenue Service on climate and transport related policy proposals, Liaise with
legal drafters to ensure that climate and transport related tax proposals and
amendments are incorporated into law as intended. Carbon and transport
related excise Taxes: Conduct economic research, policy analysis and
stakeholder consultation, on existing transport-related excise taxes, including:
Fuel taxes, Diesel fuel tax refund, Vehicle taxes, Compile and maintain fuel
price and fuel levy databases, reviews, and reports on transport fuel taxes
including: Annual fuel levy adjustments, Fuel sales, volumes, and prices,
70
Petrol, diesel, and liquefied petroleum gas differentials, Diesel fuel tax refund,
Clean fuels initiatives, Biofuels initiatives, Road accident fund levy, Interact with
the Departments of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment, Transport,
Mineral and Petroleum Resources, Electricity and Energy and the South
African Revenue Service, Liaise with legal drafters to ensure that carbon and
fuel tax policy proposals and amendments are incorporated into law as
intended. General environment issues: Formulate tax policy advice, provide
comments on Cabinet memorandums, government policy strategies; and
analysis of macro-economic impacts of climate, environment, energy and
transport policy.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 38/106 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FISCAL FRAMEWORK REF NO: S047/2025
Division: Budget Office (BO)
Purpose: To develop and maintain an aggregated and consolidated
government fiscal framework database and General Government Finance
Statistics model.
SALARY : R582 444 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6)/ Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Economics
or Mathematical or Natural Sciences or Business Sciences, mainly Finance
and Financial Economics. A minimum of 3 years’ experience is required in
public finance, or economic research. Experience in policy development and
communication is also valued. Knowledge of Economic Analysis and
Research. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act and Treasury
Regulations.
DUTIES : SACU: Assist with automation and implementation of forecasting process for
the SACU revenue sharing formula, Assist with SACU related analysis and
research, Maintain a good working relationship with SARS and other
stakeholders. Database Management and Fiscal Framework Analysis:
Maintain debt and revenue analysis workbooks, Research and analyse
government financial statistics database, Create and maintain a standard
Fiscal Policy database for analysis of information, Assist and maintain the
consolidated government fiscal framework which includes the General
Government Finance Statistics database, Provide analysis and reports
pertaining to the fiscal framework and bi-annual budget processes. Budget
Review and MTBPS: Provide support to chapters inputs and general editing of
documents, Assist with the budget media analysis prior to the official
presentation, Provide inputs for the Q&A document and media lock-ups, prior
to budget presentation, Assist in compilation of National Treasury’s responses
to public hearings. Stakeholder Engagement and Research: Provide report
writing and analyse the quarterly consensus forecasts, Prepare reports that
analysed the World Economic Outlook and the International Monetary Fund
Fiscal Monitor, Engage stakeholders on broader economic issues, drawing
particular attention to the role and impact of government.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 38/107 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FISCAL RESEARCH REF NO: S060/2025 (X2
POSTS)
Division: Budget Office (BO)
Purpose: To facilitate the fiscal policy research agenda of the National Treasury
on the short and long-term impacts of fiscal policy decisions. To support the
macro-fiscal process and assist with the production of relevant budget
documentation.
SALARY : R582 444 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6)/ Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Economics
or Business Sciences mainly in finance and financial economics/ Mathematics
or Mathematical Sciences/ Mathematical Statistics. A minimum of 3 years’
experience is required in fiscal analysis, public finance, or an economic
research environment. Experience in policy development and communication
is also valued, Knowledge of Economic Analysis and Research.
71
DUTIES : Fiscal Policy Research: Undertake Fiscal Policy research consistent with the
requirements of the National Treasury and review the broader international
macro-economic environment, institutional frameworks for their impacts on
fiscal sustainability, Provide inputs in the development of policy and implement
policy decisions of fiscal nature, Undertake research in line with the
requirements of the Fiscal Policy unit requirements and the broader
international macro-economic environment, institutional frameworks and fiscal
sustainability, Maintain debt sustainability model and revenue analysis
workbook. Database Management and Fiscal Framework Analysis: Research
and analyse government financial statistics database, Create and maintain a
standard Fiscal Policy database for analysis of information, Assist and maintain
the consolidated government fiscal framework which includes the General
Government Finance Statistics database, Provide analysis and reports
pertaining to the fiscal framework for the bi-annual budget processes, Provide
support to chapters inputs and general editing of documents. Budget Review
and MTBPS: Assist with the budget media analysis prior to the official
presentation, Provide inputs for the Q&A document and media lockups, prior
to budget presentation, Arrange the post-budget feedback for civil society and
public-sector economic forums. Benchmarking Research: Undertake
benchmarking, economic research, analysis and the relation to fiscal policy,
Provide research into the levels of the various fiscal indicators and their
implications for sustainability, growth, and development, Engage stakeholders
on broader economic issues, drawing particular attention to the role and impact
of government.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 38/108 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CAPITAL PROJECTS APPRAISAL REF NO:
S049/2025
Division: Budget Office (BO)
Purpose: To support the technical evaluation of infrastructure projects, the
development of appraisal best practice, and provide analytical support in the
compilation of infrastructure expenditure reports and forecasts.
SALARY : R582 444 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required, coupled with a minimum Bachelor’s degree (equivalent
to NQF level 7) in Economics or Development Finance or Public Policy. A
minimum of 3 years’ experience obtained in an infrastructure investment and/or
economic research environment. Knowledge of the governments’
infrastructural framework. In-depth knowledge and experience of research and
policy development/ analysis.
DUTIES : Infrastructure Database: Assist with the development and management of a
database on public infrastructure projects, spending and delivery plans,
Contribute to the development and enhancement of the integrity, content and
quality of infrastructure data in line with user requirements, Manage a database
of micro- and macro-economic indicators to assist in the appraisal review
process Capital Appraisal and Evaluation: Contribute to the compilation of
appraisal review reports for PPP and non-PPP projects, Contribute to ex post
analysis, monitoring and evaluation of infrastructure investments, and advise
on value for money attained and other socio-economic achievements, Support
the Director: Capital Projects Appraisal in coordinating the independent
appraisal review functions of the Budget Facility for Infrastructure Appraisal
tools and methodologies: Assist with development and updating of
standardised capital appraisal guidelines, tools and methodologies, Assist with
research on appropriate methodologies and parameters pertaining to project
appraisal and evaluation, Participate in the rollout of capacity building initiatives
to promote the use of standardised appraisal guidelines, tools and
methodologies Budget Support: Assist in the update and verification of
infrastructure tables, estimates and input into forecasts for the MTBPS and
Budget Review, Contribute to the analysis of projects on the fiscus and
economy; monitor trends and development; and inform infrastructure policies,
analysis and research, Provide inputs into the infrastructure expenditure
figures and estimates for the MTBPS and Budget Review.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
72
POST 38/109 : ECONOMIST: PERSONAL INCOME TAX DESIGN REF NO: S056/2025
Division: Tax And Financial Sector Policy (TFSP)
Purpose: To conduct research and provide technical advice on legislative
proposals relating to Personal Income Tax Design, covering all tax and related
matters affecting individuals in the areas of personal income, employment,
retirement savings, and cross-border issues.
SALARY : R582 444 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF
level 7) in Law (or LLB) or Accounting, with specialisation in Taxation or
Taxation Law. A minimum of 3 years’ experience obtained in personal income
tax or legal tax environment.
DUTIES : Assisting with the general individual taxation for the personal income design
unit: Conduct research, analysis, and reporting on Personal Income Tax to
support legislative and policy development, Draft and review technical notes
and supporting documentation for proposed amendments to Personal Income
Tax and related legislation, Assist in compiling amendments and explanatory
memoranda for inclusion in legislative processes, Contribute to the preparation
of annual budget proposals, ensuring alignment with existing tax legislation.
Retirement reforms: Assist in providing inputs on policy proposals in respect of
the Retirement Reforms, Assist in analysing the recent amendments to the
Retirement Reforms for the purposes of alignment of the tax legislation and
removing anomalies and ambiguity. Employment Taxation: Assist in providing
inputs on policy proposals to employment tax policy proposals for
implementation, Assist in incorporating inputs on policy proposals pertaining to
specialised employment taxes. Provide Technical Support: Provide technical
support in formalising legislative amendments for integration into the personal
income tax system, Monitor and report on local and international developments
in personal income tax legislation • Support consultations with stakeholders
(e.g., National Treasury, Parliamentary Committees on Finance, SARS,
industry bodies, taxpayers) on proposed amendments and draft legislation.
Ensure technical inputs and policy documents are clear, consistent, and
aligned with legislative requirements, Maintain accurate records and drafter’s
notes to support legislative processes and ensure continuity, Support the Tax
Policy Unit in ensuring that personal income tax proposals and amendments
are coherent, implementable, and aligned with policy intent. Public Benefit
Organisations, Government and Other Tax Exempt Entities: Assist with
research, reviews, analyses on public benefit organisations and tax exempt
entities for the annual Budget Review.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 38/110 : ECONOMIST: ENVIRONMENTAL AND FUEL TAXES REF NO: S058/2025
Division: Tax And Financial Sector Policy (TFSP)
Purpose: To assist with the development of carbon pricing, environment and
fuel tax policies to support fiscal reform in South Africa.
SALARY : R582 444 per annum, (Excl benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum Bachelor’s degree (equivalent
to NQF level 7) in Environmental Economics and Environmental Science or
Environmental Management. A minimum of 3 years’ experience obtained in tax
research and policy analysis. Knowledge and exposure to the broader tax
policy framework on carbon pricing, environment and fuel taxes. Experience in
database management, with working knowledge of quantitative techniques,
excel and other statistical packages and econometric modelling.
DUTIES : Market Based Fiscal instruments to Support Climate Change Mitigation and
Adaptation: Assist with economic research and policy analysis on carbon taxes
and incentives to promote climate change mitigation and adaptation, Assist
with economic research and analysis on quantity based environmental fiscal
instruments including carbon market mechanisms under the Paris Agreement
Participate in consultations with the Departments of Forestry Fisheries and the
Environment, Transport, Electricity and Energy and Mineral and Petroleum
Resources, and the South African Revenue Service. Market based fiscal
instruments to promote Environmental sustainability: Assist with reviews,
economic research and policy analysis on taxes, incentives, charges and
subsidies to address: local air pollution, water pollution and resource
73
management, land degradation and biodiversity conservation, solid waste
management and circular economy, Provide tax policy research material on
the design and international developments in environment and fuel taxes.
Transport Fuel Taxes: Maintain fuel price and tax databases and assist with
reviews and reports on transport fuel tax issues including the diesel fuel tax
refund, petrol, diesel, and liquefied petroleum gas differentials, clean fuels
initiatives, biofuels initiatives, road accident fund levy, fuel sales, volumes, and
prices, Assist with annual adjustment proposals for the fuel levies.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 38/111 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BID MANAGEMENT REF NO: S061/2025
Division: Office Of The Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To provide assistance with the administration and logistics of Bids
Management in the Supply Chain Management environment in compliance
with prescripts and procedures.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Logistics
or Procurement or Supply Chain Management. A minimum of 3 years’
experience in a Procurement/ Supply Chain environment. Knowledge and
experience of Bids Management. Knowledge and experience of the Supply
Chain Framework, policies and procedures.
DUTIES : Compliance to Bids prescripts and procedures: Provide a platform for Bids
management in compliance with prescripts and procedures, Verify
specifications/ terms of references and evaluation criteria in the quality
assurance of documents before placement of bids for advertising in the
government tender bulletin/etenders, Develop a project plan on committed
goods and services to track user’s deadlines on requests submitted, Compile
memos for Bids adjudication committee and for Accounting officer/Director
General’s approval, Manage the submission of correct information for
publication in the tender portal/media, Initiate and oversee the invitation
process and evaluation of requests for proposals in terms of the Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Act(PPPFA), Submit documents of suppliers
of companies for verification and screening, Establish pre-qualification process
after closing of the bids in line with the special conditions of contract and invite
Bid Evaluation Meetings with relevant users, Implement efficient, proper bids
management and administration for procurement of goods and services,
Attend and support Bid Specification, Bid Evaluation and Bid Adjudication
Committee meetings to guide and provide advice on stakeholders on the
procedures as outlined in SCM Policy PFMA, Treasury Regulations, PPPFA
and Practice Notes from the National Treasury, Office of Chief Procurement
Officer and other related legislations. Contract Management Advice: Prepare
and issue letters to successful and unsuccessful bidders, Prepare procurement
handover file to Contract management for contracting purpose.
Communication to stakeholders: Develop processes pertaining to bids
management information session to make stakeholders aware of the latest
developments in the Bids Management environment, Conduct briefing
sessions with all perspective bidders as pertaining to bids specification and
documents, Conduct specification sessions for completion of Terms of
reference. Reporting: Provide monthly and quarterly bids related reports,
Prepare relevant reports for management and auditing purpose, Identify risks
within the operations SCM, bid management and develop corrective actions,
Report on any irregularity, wasteful and unauthorised expenditures to the
relevant authority, Provide quarterly inputs on bid operations review reports
and action plans.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 38/112 : CATEGORY ADMINISTRATOR REF NO: S062/2025
Division: Office of The Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To assist with the execution of sourcing and acquisition processes in
respect of Category analyses to meet financial and delivery requirements of
the National Treasury.
SALARY : R397 116 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
74
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) in Public Administration, Business Management or Supply
Chain Management. A minimum of 2 years’ knowledge and experience in
Procurement and/ or Category Management. Knowledge of Procurement
systems and policies or related utilised in Public and or Private Sector.
DUTIES : Administrative Support: Implement Strategic sourcing strategies aligned to the
Departments targets, objectives and system processes for strategic sourcing,
Report on progress and improved opportunities as identified by the strategic
sourcing unit, Initiate the implementation of the sourcing strategy for specified
categories, Assist with the needs and market analysis processes pertaining to
market pricing and competitive product and quality analysis, Assist with
conduct of collaborative demand planning and marketing and supplier
analyses, Assist with the procurement process analyses to meet cost and
delivery goals. Stake holder Management: Assist in the preparation and
conduct an analysis of RFI/RFP/RFQ, Liaise with key suppliers on
specifications and lead times, Evaluate supplier’s performance against defined
supplies, goals and targets, Manage sourcing supplier portfolios to identify and
categorise suppliers based on the performance, Facilitate supplier based
briefings on Lead times and development of a commodity, Remind Suppliers
of agreed SLA’s and track category performance metrics, Evaluate and
maintain customer satisfaction for future deliberations of specified
commodities, Communicate operational procedures to stakeholders. Market
Analysis: Negotiate, implement and manage prices with suppliers, Maintain
supplier improvement targets in cost, quality and delivery, Initiate all aspects of
supplier negotiations, including contract terms, Provide a broad competitor
analysis on specified commodities, Provide price re-determinations and
performance management of suppliers. Governance and Compliance: Make
use of Strategic framework for the strategic procurement of goods and
services, Monitor compliance to environmental initiatives and obligations,
Conduct price audits on all contracted commodities. Category Reporting:
Provide status report on savings and benefits per category, Provide an updated
spend analysis on existing commodities.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 38/113 : BIDS ADMINISTRATOR REF NO: S063/2025
Division: Office of The Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To assist the Bids Management unit with the terms of all the bids
processes in an administrative and logistical manner.
SALARY : R397 116 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6)/ Bachelor’s Degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Supply Chain
Management. A minimum of 2 years’ experience obtained in a supply chain
environment. Knowledge and experience of the Supply Chain Framework.
DUTIES : Administrative Support: Compile bid documents and provide documents to
management for approval and publication, Invite, evaluate and award
quotations /proposals within a specified threshold, Schedule bid committee
sittings for NT, Prepare advertisement for placement on e-Tender system,
Government Bulletin and NT website, Provide secretarial function to bid
committees. Bids Management: Record and verify bids documentations for
administration activities and compliance, Verify pre-qualification processes
after closing date of bids in accordance with the special conditions of contract,
Prepare nominations letters, evaluation sheets, Declaration of interest and
Code of Conduct sheets for sign-off by Bid evaluation committee members,
Verify and facilitate updating of the validity periods of bids prior to award. Client
Engagement: Obtain additional information in writing from bidders where
applicable, Handle bidders enquiries and correspondence for response,
Prepare and issue letters to successful and unsuccessful bidders, Submit
documentation of suppliers for verification and screening of companies and
coordinate briefing sessions for bids. Client Support: Advice clients on the
compilation of terms of reference, specifications and evaluation criterion for
bid, Assist with the evaluation of transactions pertaining to the prescribed
contained within the Preferential Procurement Regulations.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
75
POST 38/114 : SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTITIONER: TRANSIT REF NO: S064/2025
Division: Office of The Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To co-ordinate the receipt and distribution of goods and services in
line with policies and procedures of the Supply Chain Management.
SALARY : R397 116 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6)/ Bachelor’s Degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Procurement
or Logistics or Supply Chain Management. A minimum of 2 years’ experience
obtained in the procurement of goods and Inventory Management. Knowledge
of the Supply Chain Framework in the Public Service and other related policies
and procedures. Knowledge and exposure in the operation of Logis and BAS.
DUTIES : Deliveries, receipting and suppliers: Monitor all commitments on orders of
goods and keep record of expected deliveries, Calculate and categories all
inbound goods and authenticate the receipts in accordance with the delivery
notes, Perform quality assurance pertaining to received goods and report any
damages and discrepancies with delivery notes, Keep goods register for
verification of goods received and record purposes, Fast-track relevant
documentation from suppliers in line with the storage and procurement of
goods to stakeholders. Handling and safekeeping of goods: Communicate the
co-ordination of buyer returns, rejections with appropriate written motivation,
Inspect, and properly storing items to prevent damage or loss, Ensure
configuration of equipment is done prior to delivery of equipment. Collaborate
with stakeholders, Financial Accounting unit by submitting documents and
notifications timeously for prompt settlement of accounts, Requisitions and
Issue of stock: Receive all requisitions requests from stakeholders register on
the system for record purposes., Liaise with clients on the completion of
requisitions for replenishment of stock., Verify issued supplies and compare
against shelve items for correctness, Verify all confirmed delivered goods with
the order and other administration prior to delivery, Issue all stock out on the
system and verify with supporting documents prior to deliveries, Stock
assessment and verification: Verify and count the physical inventory items
against requests to determine stock levels, Confirm computations against
issued stock and compare and calculate received supplies, Confirm
computations against issued stock and compare and calculate received
supplies, Propose and implement corrective measures to circumvent
oversights.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 38/115 : ADMIN OFFICER: RECORDS AND INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REF
NO: S052/2025
Division: Corporate Services (CS)
Purpose: To render an effective, efficient record administration within the
National Treasury; assist in managing the central registry/s and provide
administrative support to the PAIA Helpdesk.
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum Grade 12 is required coupled with an Office Administration Diploma
(equivalent to NQF level 4 or 5) as advantageous. A minimum of 2 years’
experience obtained in the registry administration environment, Knowledge of
file storage, retrieval and archiving. Exposure to the working operation of the
National Archiving Act and Regulations. Experience in handling top secret
documents and the facilitation thereof.
DUTIES : Registry Support: Assist with the compilation, implementation, maintenance
and utilization of the approved records classification systems (i.e. paper and
digital records) and record control schedule. Manage file movements. Capture
all records in the records management database. Oversee the scanning of
records and upload to SharePoint. Safeguarding of records storage areas,
implement records retention in line with records classification systems and
support the electronics records management system, Oversee the destruction
of non-archival records and ensure that the destruction certificates are
submitted to the National Archivist, Assist with regular inspections of the
individual components in alignment with the records management policy and
standards promulgated in the National Archives Act, PAIA and POPIA Helpdesk
Support: Register incoming requests for information in terms of the Promotion
76
of Access to Information Act and Promotion of Access to Information Act,
Follow up on received requests and ensure that they are finalized within 30
days, Draft the required documents, Send approved documents to requesters,
Draft compliance reports. Administrative Support: Manage the ordering of
stationery and controls thereof, Safeguarding the records and exercise control
over all the storeroom keys, Ensure that the registry and records room(s) are
not left unattended, Support the electronic registry with file plan and retention
period updates of files, Assist with scanning of files and support with
miscellaneous and administrative duties. Stakeholder Engagement: Motivate
and empowers others to reach their operational goals, Exercise influence and
convince others in a way that results in acceptance, agreement, or behaviour
change, Ensure authorized users have access to information. Customer
Support: Adopt a flexible and practical approach to departmental records
management procedures to meet customer requirements, Suggest alternative
records classification options to customers, Utilise knowledge of departmental
and filing systems to locate information filed in Registry systems.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
77
ANNEXURE L
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be posted / or hand-delivered to: The Department of
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation (DPME), Attention: Human Resource
Admin & Recruitment, at Private Bag X944, Pretoria, 0028 or hand delivered
to 330 Grosvenor Street, Hatfield, Pretoria 0028 (please quote the relevant
post and reference number). Applications can also be emailed to
Recruitment11@dpme.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025 at 16:30
WEBSITE : www.dpme.gov.za
NOTE : The relevant reference number must be quoted on all applications. The
successful candidate will have to sign an annual performance agreement and
will be required to undergo a security clearance. Applications must be
submitted on a signed Z83 accompanied by a comprehensive CV only
specifying all experience indicating the respective dates (MM/YY) as well as
indicating three reference persons with the following information: name and
contact number(s), email address and an indication of the capacity in which the
reference is known to the candidate. Certified copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents will be requested from shortlisted candidates only.
Applicants will be required to meet vetting requirements as prescribed by
Minimum Information Security Standards. The DPME is an equal opportunity
affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be informed by the
Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the Department’s intention to
promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
Failure to submit the above information will result in the application not being
considered. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Reference
checks will be done during the selection process. Note that correspondence
will only be conducted with the short-listed candidates. If you have not been
contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Shortlisted candidates
must be available for interviews at a date and time determined by DPME.
Applicants must note that pre-employment checks will be conducted once they
are short-listed and the appointment is also subject to positive outcomes on
these checks, which include security clearance, security vetting, qualification
verification and criminal records. All shortlisted candidates will be required to
undergo a technical exercise that intends to test the relevant technical
elements of the job. For salary levels 11 to 15, the inclusive remuneration
package consists of a basic salary, the state’s contribution to the Government
Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules.
SMS will be required to undergo a Competency Assessment as prescribed by
DPSA. The DPME reserves the right to utilise practical exercises/tests for non-
SMS positions during the recruitment process (candidates who are shortlisted
will be informed accordingly) to determine the suitability of candidates for the
post(s). The DPME also reserves the right to cancel the filling / not to fill a
vacancy that was advertised during any stage of the recruitment process. Prior
to appointment, a candidate would be required to complete the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to Senior Management Services as
endorsed by DPSA which is an online course, endorsed by the National School
of Government (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into the SMS and the full details can be sourced by the
following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/. Candidates are required to use the new Z83 (Application for
employment) that is implemented with effect from 1 January 2021. A copy can
be downloaded on the website of the Department of Public Service &
Administration (DPSA) at www.dpsa.gov.za
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the post of Deputy Director-General: Corporate
Services with Ref No: 10/2025 was advertised in Public Service Vacancy
Circular 37 dated 10 October 2025. The salary has been amended as follows:
From R1, 741 770 to R1, 813 182 per annum (Level 15), all-inclusive salary
package.
78
OTHER POST
POST 38/116 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: PMG REF NO: 11/2025
Unit: Payables, Receivables and PMG
SALARY : R397 116 – R467 790 per annum (Level 08), plus benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma/ Degree (NQF 6/7) in Finance/Accounting with at least 4
Years’ experience in financial management environment. NQF Level 8 or
higher qualification will be an added advantage. Competencies and skills:
Should have extensive knowledge and experience of BAS, LOGIS and
PERSAL and a high level of computer literacy and sound knowledge of
Microsoft Office suite. Must have good Interpersonal relations, planning and
execution skills and good leadership skills. Must have good verbal and written
communication skills. Ability to manage/control financial resources and
supervise staff. Must have the ability to delegate and empower subordinates.
Must have the ability to interpret relevant Directives such as PFMA, Treasury
Regulations and other relevant legislation. Personal Attributes: Ability to accept
responsibility, work independently, and produce good quality of work. Must be
a team player, flexible and reliable.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible to provide financial administration
and operational services within the Department. This entails to administer the
Paymaster General Account, Month/Year end Closure and Revenue.
Administer Ledger Accounts, Journals and provide IFS/AFS inputs. Administer
Entities and Safety Web Payments. Manage Petty Cash and perform PERSAL
deductions. HR Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Masilela Tel No: (012) 312-0471
79
ANNEXURE M
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATION
It is the intention to promote representivity in the Department through the filling of these posts. The
candidature of applicants from designated groups especially in respect of people with disabilities will
receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang
Ntsiko. Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or E-mail your application to and Advert122025@dpsa.gov.za and
Advert132025@dpsa.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
NOTE : Applications are hereby invited from independent, suitably qualified and
experienced professionals to serve as members of the Shared Audit and Risk
Committee of the Department of Public Service and Administration (DPSA) and
Centre for Public Service Innovation (CPSI). Applications must quote the
relevant reference number and consist of: A fully completed and signed NEW
Z83 form which can be downloaded at
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp .’’From 1 January 2021 should an
application be received using the incorrect application for employment (Z83), it
will not be considered”, a recent comprehensive CV; contactable referees
(telephone numbers and email addresses must be indicated); Applicants are
not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents
on application but must submit the Z83 and a detailed curriculum vitae (Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents, all non-
SA citizens must attach a copy of proof of permanent residence in South Africa
on or before the day of the interviews). Foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). All non-SA citizens must attach a copy of proof of permanent
residence in South Africa. All shortlisted candidates for post/s will be subjected
to a technical exercise that intend to test relevant technical elements of the job,
personnel suitability checks on criminal records, citizen verification, financial
records, qualification verification and applicants could be required to provide
consent for access to their social media accounts. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within
three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful.
OTHER POSTS
POST 38/117 : AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE CHAIRPERSON REF NO: DPSA 12/2025
(Three-year contract)
SALARY : Audit and Risk Committee Members shall be appointed as independent
contractors and not as employees of the Department. Remuneration shall be
in accordance with National Treasury Regulations 3.1.6, read with National
Treasury Regulations 20.2.3. Member will be remunerated for preparation and
attendance of meetings.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary or equivalent qualification in Accounting, Auditing and Risk
Management or Law. Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) or Chartered Accountant
(CA) or equivalent professional qualification relevant fields is a prerequisite for
the appointment as the Shared Audit & Risk Committee Chairperson of the
Department of Public Service & Administration and Centre for Public Service
Innovation (CPSI). Candidates should have executive management
experience in risk management, control, governance, within the public service
and or Government sector for more than ten years. Knowledge and
understanding of Government prescripts and processes. Experience:
Applicants must have demonstrable exposure in Risk Management,
Governance, Audit, Financial Management, Law, and Organizational
Performance Management. The applicants should be independent and
knowledgeable of the status of their positions as chairperson of the Audit &
Risk Committee. A knowledgeable person who keeps up to date with the
developments within the Finance, Auditing, Risk Management, Legal and
governance space. Departmental Values. Technical Knowledge of the
80
Department of Public Service and Administration, National Treasury,
prescripts, regulations and guidelines. Lead issues to direct the Committee's
focus on properly addressing critical and high-risk areas. Attributes And Skills:
Strong leadership, analytical thinking, good communication skills, ability to
inspire confidence and maintain a balanced view, ability to maintain
independence and objectivity, facilitation skills, Courage to challenge
discussions and ask relevant questions, willing to dedicate time and energy to
serve the interest of the public, encourage openness and transparency, healthy
skepticism and professional approach, High level of integrity, inquisitiveness
and independent judgement, knowledge of the public sector risk and control,
ability to offer new perspective, ability to promote effective working
relationships (among committee members, management, internal and external
auditors).
DUTIES : Fulfil oversight responsibilities regarding risk management, control,
governance, information technology, compliance, external and internal audit,
management accounts and annual financial statements. Advise the Accounting
Officer in the effective execution of his/her responsibilities. Assist in building
trust and confidence in how the Department is managed. Regulate and
discharge all responsibilities as contained in relevant legislation and or the
Audit & Risk Committee Charter. Direct and lead the Committee and account
to the Accounting Officer and relevant Executive Authority. Serve as the
Chairperson for both DPSA and CPSI Audit and Risk Committee (shared).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ernst Mogwanye Tel No: (012) 309 1074/ E-mail:
ernst.mogwanye@dpsa.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Email your application to: Advert122025@dpsa.gov.za
NOTE : General Information: Preference will be given to applicants who are citizens of
the Republic of South Africa.
POST 38/118 : AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEMBER REF NO: DPSA 13/2025
(Three-year contract)
SALARY : Audit and Risk Committee Members shall be appointed as independent
contractors and not as employees of the Department. Remuneration shall be
in accordance with National Treasury Regulations 3.1.6, read with National
Treasury Regulations 20.2.3. Member will be remunerated for preparation and
attendance of meetings. Members will be remunerated for preparation and
attendance of meetings.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a three-year tertiary qualification in the
field of either Accounting, Auditing, Risk Management, Information
Communication Technology, or Law. Possession of a CA (SA), CIA, CISA, CFE
qualification will be an added advantage. Experience: Applicants must have a
sound experience in Auditing, Governance and Risk Management, Information
Communication Technology, Organizational Performance Management,
Implementation and Monitoring, Legal and External Auditing. A proven record
of service or membership of the following Committees: Audit Committee, Risk
Management Committee, IT Steering Committee, Ethics Committee and/or any
Governance Body. Attributes And Skills Highly independent, integrity,
objectivity, reliability, sound knowledge of Public Sector environment,
knowledge of governance and risk management principles and control
processes, good communication skills, strong leadership skills, knowledge of
the Public Administration industry. Independence from all operations of the
Department of Public Service and Administration and the Centre for Public
Service Innovation.
DUTIES : The committee regulates and discharges its responsibilities in accordance with
the provisions of the PFMA, National Treasury Regulations and approved Audit
& Risk Committee Charter. Serve as a member for both DPSA and CPSI Audit
and Risk Committee (shared).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ernst Mogwanye Tel No: (012) 309 1074/ E-mail:
ernst.mogwanye@dpsa.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Email your application to: Advert132025@dpsa.gov.za
NOTE : General Information Preference will be given to applicants who are citizens of
the Republic of South Africa.
81
ANNEXURE N
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
It is our intention to promote representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Public Service through the
filling of this post and candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity will
receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to the
Director-General, Department of Social Development, Private Bag X901,
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: HSRC Building, 134 Pretorius Street In the
event of hand delivery of applications, applicants must sign an application
register book as proof of submission. Applicants may also email their
applications to the following email addresses:
For: Director: Entity Oversight- e-recruit.EO@dsd.gov.za
Director: Financial, Compliance and IT Audits- e-recruit.FCIA@dsd.gov.za
Director: Information Technology Operations- e-recruit.ITO@dsd.gov.za
Director: Public Relations and Events Management- e-
recruit.PREM@dsd.gov.za
Director: Families Services and Programmes- e-recruit.FSP@dsd.gov.za
Director: HIV Care and Support- e-recruit.HCS@dsd.gov.za
Director: Social Relief- e-recruit.SR@dsd.gov.za
Social Work Policy Manager Grade 1- e-recruit.SWPM2@dsd.gov.za
Social Work Policy Developer Grade 1- e-recruit.SWPD2@dsd.gov.za
Senior Training Officer- e-recruit.STO@dsd.gov.za.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr TZ Mapela
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
NOTE : Curriculum vitae with a detailed description of duties and the names of two
referees must accompany your signed application for employment (Z83). If
applying for more than one position, applicants must submit separate
applications for each position. Shortlisted candidates for a post will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications and identity documents on the date
of the interview. Applicants are advised that from 1 January 2021, a new
application for employment (Z83) form is effective and must be completed in
full, failure to use the new Z83 will result in disqualification. The new form can
be downloaded online at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. Applicants applying for
SMS posts are required to successfully complete the Certificate for entry into
the SMS (submitted prior to appointment) and full details can be sourced by
following the link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/. Applicants are expected to pay for the course and may enrol for
it at a cost of R400.00. The duration of the course is 120 hours. All shortlisted
candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive
on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The successful
candidate will sign an annual performance agreement, complete a financial
discloser form and will also be required to undergo a security clearance.
Candidates nominated for posts on salary levels 2 - 12 may be subjected to a
competency assessment during the selection process. If the candidate is
applying for an OSD post, certificates of service must be submitted on the date
of the interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Failure to
submit the requested documents will result in your application not being
considered. Personnel suitability checks will be conducted on shortlisted
candidates, and the appointment is subject to positive outcomes of the checks.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. The selection of
candidates will be done with due regard to the relevant aspects of the selection
process as set out in the Public Service Amendment Regulations, 2023,
Regulation 67. Applications received after the closing date will not be taken into
consideration. If you have not been contacted within three months after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Candidates requiring additional information regarding the
advertised post may direct their enquiries to the person as indicated above.
Internal applicants must submit and register their employment applications at
82
the register book in the DSD reception area for the attention of Mr TZ Mapela.
DSD reserves the right to cancel the filling/ not to fill a vacancy that was
advertised during any stage of the recruitment process.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 38/119 : DIRECTOR: ENTITY OVERSIGHT (OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
OVERSIGHT) REF NO: N1/A/2025
Office of the Director-General
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
The successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance
agreement and to sign an employment contract.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Public Management/ Public
Administration/ Social Sciences/Commerce as recognized by SAQA plus 5
years’ experience at middle/ senior management level in the relevant field.
Knowledge and understanding of the Constitution on organs of state, entities
and institutions. Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service Act and
Regulations. Knowledge and understanding of the Public Finance
Management and Treasury Regulations. Knowledge and understanding of the
South African Council Social Service Profession (SACSSP). Knowledge and
understanding of Central Drug Authority (CDA) Knowledge and understanding
of South African Security Agency Act. Knowledge and understanding of the
Social Assistance Act. Knowledge and understanding of National Development
Agency Act. Knowledge and understanding of the king IV Report on Corporate
Governance and other good governance practices. Knowledge and
understanding of Prevention of and Treatment for Substance Abuse Act of
2008. Competencies needed: Programme and project management.
Information and knowledge management. People management and
empowerment. Problem solving and change management. Policy analysis and
development. Client orientation and customer focus. Service delivery
innovation. Financial management. Communication (verbal and written).
Computer literacy. Stakeholder management. Planning and coordination.
Presentation and facilitation. Monitoring and evaluation. Attributes: Good
interpersonal relations. Ability to work under pressure. Innovative and creative.
Ability to work in a team and independently. Adaptability. Emotional
intelligence. Independent thinker. Cost consciousness. Honesty and integrity.
Assertiveness.
DUTIES : Manage the development, review and implementation of policies, legislations,
frameworks and guidelines in respect of governance and compliance oversight.
Manage and oversee policy, governance and compliance of Entities and
Institutions. Manage and oversee the performance of the Entities and
Institutions in line with their strategic plans and Annual Performance Plans.
Manage and oversee the financial performance of the Entities and Institutions.
Manage and report on the budget, human resources, and performance of the
Directorate in line with the set regulations and prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Maluleke Tel No: (012) 312-7062/ 7068
NOTE : In terms of the Department’s employment equity targets, Coloured and White
males and African, Coloured and White females as well as persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 38/120 : DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL, COMPLIANCE AND IT AUDITS REF NO:
N1/B/2025
Chief Directive: Internal Audit Services
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
The successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance
agreement and to sign an employment contract.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Auditing/ Internal Auditing
recognised by SAQA plus 5 years’ experience at middle/ senior management
in the relevant field. Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service Act
83
and Regulations. Knowledge and understanding of standards set by the
Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA). Knowledge and understanding of accounting
practices and public sector reporting requirements. Knowledge and
understanding of internal audit and risk management principles and practices.
Knowledge and understanding of PFMA. Knowledge and understanding of
legal compliance, good governance and financial management. Knowledge in
the use of Computer Assisted Audit Techniques (CAATS). Knowledge of
corporate governance. Knowledge and understanding of General Acceptance
Accounting Practice (GAAP). Knowledge and understanding of International
Financial Reporting Standards (FRS). Competencies needed: Programme and
project management. Information and knowledge management. People
management and empowerment. Problem solving and change management.
Policy analysis and development. Client orientation and customer focus.
Service delivery innovation. Financial management. Communication (verbal
and written). Computer literacy. Stakeholder management. Planning and
coordination. Presentation and facilitation. Monitoring and evaluation.
Attributes: Good interpersonal relations. Ability to work under pressure.
Innovative and creative. Ability to work in a team and independently.
Adaptability. Emotional intelligence. Independent thinker. Cost consciousness.
Honesty and integrity. Assertiveness.
DUTIES : Manage and conduct financial, compliance and IT audits in accordance with IA
standards and relevant public service legislation. Manage, and report on the
budget, human resources, and performance of the Directorate in line with the
set regulations and prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Mudau Tel No: (012) 312-7304/ 7085
NOTE : In terms of the Department’s employment equity targets, Coloured and White
males and African, Coloured and White females as well as persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 38/121 : DIRECTOR: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY OPERATIONS REF NO:
N1/C/2025
Information Management Systems and Technology (IMST)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
The successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance
agreement and to sign an employment contract.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Business Information Systems/
Information Technology/ Computer Sciences/Computer Engineering as
recognised by SAQA plus 5 years’ experience at middle/ senior management
level in the relevant field. Knowledge and understanding of Public Service Act
and Regulations. Knowledge and understanding of the relevant Public Service
regulatory frameworks such as MIS, Archives, PAJA, PAIA, and ECTA.
Knowledge and understanding of the Cybercrimes Act. Knowledge and
understanding of SITA Act and its Regulations. Knowledge and understanding
of Information and Communication Technology framework. Knowledge and
understanding of PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Knowledge and
understanding of Information security principles and practices. Knowledge and
understanding of vendor management and contract negotiation. Knowledge
and understanding of emerging technologies and industry trends. Knowledge
and understanding of cloud security. Knowledge and understanding of best
practices on data privacy. Competencies needed: Programme and project
management. Information and knowledge management. People management
and empowerment. Problem solving and change management. Policy analysis
and development. Client orientation and customer focus. Service delivery
innovation. Financial management. Communication (verbal and written).
Computer literacy. Stakeholder management. Planning and coordination.
Presentation and facilitation. Monitoring and evaluation. Attributes: Good
interpersonal relations. Ability to work under pressure. Innovative and creative.
Ability to work in a team and independently. Adaptability. Emotional
intelligence. Independent thinker. Cost consciousness. Honesty and integrity.
Assertiveness.
DUTIES : Manage the optimal functioning of IMST service management operations and
end user support. Manage the development, review and implementation of ICT
related policies. Manage the establishment and monitoring of IT Enterprise
84
Architecture. Manage IT Infrastructure, data centre and support services.
Manage the provision of IT security operations and compliance. Manage, and
report on the budget, human resources, and performance of the Directorate in
line with the set regulations and prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Sibuyi Tel No: (012) 312-7730/ 7777
NOTE : In terms of the Department’s employment equity targets, Coloured and White
males and African, Coloured and White females as well as persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 38/122 : DIRECTOR: PUBLIC RELATIONS AND EVENTS MANAGEMENT REF NO:
N1/D/2025
Chief Directorate: Communications
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
The successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance
agreement and to sign an employment contract.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Communications/ Public Relations/
Media and Journalism Studies/ Marketing as recognised by SAQA PLUS 5
years’ experience at middle/ senior management level in the relevant field.
Knowledge and understanding of Public Service Act and Regulations.
Knowledge and understanding of Government Communication Information
System (GCIS). Knowledge and understanding of National Communication
Strategy Framework. Knowledge and understanding of Language Policy.
Knowledge and understanding of the Intellectual Property and Copyright Act.
Knowledge and understanding of POPIA and PAIA. Knowledge and
understanding of the Public Service Corporate Identify Manual. Knowledge and
understanding of the South African Media Landscape. Knowledge and
understanding of the Social Development Sector. Knowledge and
understanding of National and International political developments and trends.
Knowledge and understanding of the Government Communication Policy.
Knowledge and understanding of digital platforms. Competencies needed:
Programme and project management. Information and knowledge
management. People management and empowerment. Problem solving and
change management. Policy analysis and development. Client orientation and
customer focus. Service delivery innovation. Financial management.
Communication (verbal and written). Computer literacy. Stakeholder
management. Planning and coordination. Presentation and facilitation.
Monitoring and evaluation. Attributes: Good interpersonal relations. Ability to
work under pressure. Innovative and creative. Ability to work in a team and
independently. Adaptability. Emotional intelligence. Independent thinker. Cost
consciousness. Honesty and integrity. Assertiveness.
DUTIES : Manage the development, review and implementation of public relations/event
management guidelines, event plans and concept documents for the social
development sector. Manage and coordinate event management and public
participation programmes. Participate in planning and management meetings
to advise on Public Relations and Events Management. Ensure brand,
marketing and Public Relations strategies are integrated and support long term
organisational strategies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Godlwana Tel No: (012) 312-7026
NOTE : In terms of the Department’s employment equity targets, Coloured and White
males and African, Coloured and White females as well as persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 38/123 : DIRECTOR: FAMILIES SERVICES AND PROGRAMMES REF NO:
N1/E/2025)
Chief Directorate: Social Professional Services and Older Persons
SALARY : R1 266 714.per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
The successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance
agreement and to sign an employment contract.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
85
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Social Sciences/ Social Work as
recognized by SAQA plus 5 years’ experience at middle/ senior management
level in the relevant field. Registration with the SACSSP. Knowledge and
understanding of Public Service Act and Regulations. Knowledge and
understanding of the White Paper on Families. Knowledge and understanding
of the Children’s Amendment Act, 2007. Knowledge of Social Assistance
Amendment Act. Knowledge of White Paper for Social Development.
Knowledge and understanding of the Constitution of the Republic of South
African, 1996. Knowledge of White Paper on Persons with Disabilities
(WPRPD). Knowledge and understanding Social Welfare services, related
policies, legislations, frameworks, and norms & standards. Knowledge of
Sexual Offence Act. Knowledge and understanding of International Treaties
and obligations. Knowledge of POPIA and PAIA. Competencies needed:
Programme and project management. Information and knowledge
management. People management and empowerment. Problem solving and
change management. Policy analysis and development. Client orientation and
customer focus. Service delivery innovation. Financial management.
Communication (verbal and written). Computer literacy. Stakeholder
management. Planning and coordination. Presentation and facilitation.
Monitoring and evaluation. Attributes: Good interpersonal relations. Ability to
work under pressure. Innovative and creative. Independent thinker. Ability to
work in a team and independently. Cultural sensitivity. Adaptability.
Confidentiality. Cost consciousness. Honesty and integrity. Emotional
intelligence.
DUTIES : Manage, coordinate, and monitor the development, review, and
implementation of policies, norms and standards, international instruments and
legislative frameworks for the protection, support, empowerment, promotion
and upholding of the rights of individuals, groups and families. Facilitate and
monitor the implementation of family services within communities to promote
care, support, protection, and the upholding of the rights of individuals, groups
and families. Coordinate the engagements, collaborations, and partnerships
with various stakeholders as well as regional and international structures in
relation to matters, programmes and strategies related to families. Coordinate,
manage, facilitate, and monitor the development, review, and the
implementation of capacity building programmes and practical programmes,
strategies, and guidelines to improve the delivery of quality services to families,
through partnership with stakeholders. Facilitate research and evaluation
studies on family services to inform policies, strategies, programmes, and
legislative frameworks. Manage and report on the budget, human resources,
and performance of the Directorate in line with the set regulations and
prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Legodu Tel No: (012) 312-7548/ 741 6826
NOTE : In terms of the Department’s employment equity targets, Coloured and White
males and African, Coloured and White females as well as persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 38/124 : DIRECTOR: HIV CARE AND SUPPORT REF NO: N1/F/2025
Chief Directorate: HIV/AIDS and Burdens of the Diseases
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
The successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance
agreement and to sign an employment contract.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Social Sciences/ Social Work as
recognized by SAQA plus 5 years’ experience at middle/ senior management
level in the relevant field. Registration with the SACSSP. Knowledge and
understanding of Public Service Act and Regulations. Knowledge and
understanding of National Strategic Plan on HIV, TB and STIs. Knowledge and
understanding on the DSD HIV and AIDS Comprehensive Strategy. Knowledge
and understanding of legislations, policies and strategies pertaining to HIV.
Knowledge and understanding of guidelines and frameworks for Psychosocial
Support in context of HIV. Knowledge and understanding of care support
programmes. Knowledge and understanding of the integrated School Health
Programme (ISHP). Knowledge and understanding of the Social Behavioural
Change programmes. Knowledge and understanding of the White Paper on
86
Social Development. Knowledge and understanding of the PFMA and National
Treasury Regulations. Competencies needed: Programme and project
management. Information and knowledge management. People management
and empowerment. Problem solving and change management. Policy analysis
and development. Client orientation and customer focus. Service delivery
innovation. Financial management. Communication (verbal and written).
Computer literacy. Stakeholder management. Planning and coordination.
Presentation and facilitation. Monitoring and evaluation. Attributes: Good
interpersonal relations. Ability to work under pressure. Innovative and creative.
Independent thinker. Ability to work in a team and independently. Adaptability.
Cost consciousness. Honesty and integrity. Emotional intelligence.
Assertiveness.
DUTIES : Manage and facilitate the development and review of HIV Care and Support
programmes. Monitor implementation of plans, strategies, and guidelines in
relation to HIV Care and Support policies and programmes in provinces.
Coordinate stakeholder engagements and partnership on matters of technical
support, funding, and implementation of programmes related to HIV care and
support. Manage, and report on the budget, human resources, and
performance of the Directorate in line with the set regulations and prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Skosana Tel No: (012) 312-7904/7263
NOTE : In terms of the Department’s employment equity targets, Coloured and White
males and African, Coloured and White females as well as persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 38/125 : DIRECTOR: SOCIAL RELIEF REF NO: N1/G/2025
Chief Directorate: Social Assistance
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
The successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance
agreement and to sign an employment contract.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Social Work/Social Sciences/
Development Studies/Public Administration and Disaster Management as
recognized by SAQA PLUS 5 years’ experience at middle management/senior
management level in the relevant field. Knowledge and understanding of
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa. Knowledge and understanding of
Public Service Act and Regulations. Knowledge and understanding of the
Social Assistance Act. Knowledge and understanding of the Public Finance
Management Act. Knowledge and understanding of the South African Social
Security Agency Act. Knowledge and understanding of disaster management
framework. Knowledge and understanding the costing of social protection
programmes. Knowledge and understanding of the Fundraising Act.
Knowledge and understanding of the White Paper on Social Development.
Knowledge and understanding of the PAJA, POPIA and PAIA. Competencies
needed: Programme and project management. Information and knowledge
management. People management and empowerment. Problem solving and
change management. Policy analysis and development. Client orientation and
customer focus. Service delivery innovation. Financial management.
Communication (verbal and written). Computer literacy. Stakeholder
management. Planning and coordination. Presentation and facilitation.
Monitoring and evaluation. Attributes: Good interpersonal relations. Ability to
work under pressure. Innovative and creative. Ability to work in a team and
independently. Adaptability. Emotional intelligence. Independent thinker. Cost
consciousness. Honesty and integrity. Assertiveness.
DUTIES : Manage the development and review of policies, legislation, frameworks,
strategies and guidelines for individuals, families and communities in distress.
Design solution-focused social relief programmes for individuals, families and
communities. Oversee and manage stakeholder engagements, partnerships
and collaborations on matters relating to social relief programmes. Provide
secretariat support and advisory services to the Disaster Relief Fund Board.
Manage, and report on the budget, human resources, and performance of the
Directorate in line with the set regulations and prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Mogotsi Tel No: (012) 741-6835/ 6833
87
NOTE : In terms of the Department’s employment equity targets, Coloured and White
males and African, African, Coloured and White females as well as persons
with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
OTHER POSTS
POST 38/126 : SOCIAL WORK POLICY MANAGER GRADE 1: ORPHANS AND
VULNERABLE CHILDREN REF NO: N1/H/2025
Directorate: Child Protection
SALARY : R970 686 per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic
salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund
and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognised Bachelor’s Degree in Social Work or equivalent
qualification. Registration with the South African Council for Social Service
Professions (SACSSP) as a Social Worker plus ten (10) years’ appropriate
experience in social work after registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP
of which five (5) years must be appropriate experience in social work policy
development. Knowledge of child care and protection legislation, and child
protection policies, children with disabilities and chronic illnesses, provision of
therapeutic services and psychosocial services. Willingness to travel.
Competencies needed: Programme development, Project management skills.
Planning and organising skills. Networking skills. Communication (written and
verbal) skills. Professional counselling skills. Policy analysis and development
skills. Financial management skills. Presentation and facilitation skills. Report
writing. Monitoring and evaluation skills. People management skills. Ability to
compile complex reports. Attributes: Ability to work under pressure. Ability to
work in a team and independently. Innovative and creative. Friendly and
trustworthy. Integrity.
DUTIES : Develop/facilitate the development, review, amendment and implementation of
legislation, policies, strategies, guidelines and programmes on children with
disabilities and chronic illnesses including orphans and vulnerable children.
Monitor and coordinate provision of services and programmes to children with
disabilities and chronic illnesses. Manage a social work policy unit to ensure
that the required legislating policies and procedures are developed through the
efficient and effective utilization of human resources. Consult and liaise with
stakeholders, including Cabinet, Parliament and Clusters. Keep up to date with
new developments in the social work and management fields. Plan and ensure
that programmes for children with disabilities and chronic illnesses are in place,
undertaking policy research and development. Perform and/or ensure that all
the administrative functions required in the unit are performed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Neliswa Cekiso Tel No: (012) 312-7989/7609
POST 38/127 : SOCIAL WORK POLICY DEVELOPER GRADE 1 REF NO: N1/I/2025
Directorate: Adoptions and International Services
SALARY : R453 201 per annum
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognised Bachelor’s Degree in Social Work or equivalent
qualification. Registration with the South African Council for Social Service
Professions (SACSSP) as a Social Worker plus eight (8) years’ appropriate
experience in social work after registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP.
Knowledge of the relevant Public Service legislation. Knowledge of child care
and protection legislative framework and policies. Competencies needed:
Project management skills. Planning and organizing skills. Networking skills.
Coordination skills. Communication (verbal and written) skills. Professional
counselling skills. Policy Analysis and development skills. Financial
Management skills. Presentation skills. Monitoring and evaluation skills.
People management skills. Ability to compile complex reports. Attributes: Ability
to work under pressure. Innovative and creative. Ability to work in a team and
independently. Adaptability. Compliant. Assertive.
DUTIES : Assist in developing, implementing, and maintaining social work policies and
guidelines pertaining to adoptions. Management of the registration of
adoptions process by: verifying adoption documents received from Children’s
Courts, signing of adoption orders, identifying faults on the adoption documents
and refer them for further intervention and collating of monthly and quarterly
88
statistics. Popularising and training of stakeholders on the Registration of
Adoption process. Engagements and liaising with Children’s Courts to ensure
the correction of faults on adoption files. Management of origin and search
enquiries of adoptees and the birth or biological parents in line with the
provision of the Children’s Act. Keep up to date with new developments in the
social work field pertaining to adoptions. Perform administrative functions
required in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Tebogo Mabe Tel No: (012) 312-7144/3
POST 38/128 : SENIOR TRAINIGING OFFICER REF NO: N1/J/2025
Directorate: Recruitment and Retention Programme for Social Service
Practitioners
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant qualification at NQF level 6 in Human Resource Development/
Human Resource Management/ Management of Training and Development
plus 1-2 years relevant experience in the field. Knowledge of Public Service
Legislation. Knowledge and understanding in the functioning of the Sector
Education and Training authorities. Knowledge and understanding of the SAQA
process. Competencies needed: Communication (written and verbal). Planning
and organising. Problem solving. Policy analysis. Office management and
administration. Computer literacy. Client liaison. Analytical. Report writing.
Attributes: Good interpersonal relation. Ability to work under pressure.
Innovative and creative. Ability to work in a team and independently.
Adaptability. Diplomatic. Independent thinker. Cost consciousness. Honesty
and integrity. Self-Starter. Assertiveness.
DUTIES : Facilitate the implementation of professional learning and development
programmes. Provide support on the review and implementation of policies and
legislation for regulation of social service professionals. Facilitate the
development and maintenance of the database for social service practitioners.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Rapoo Tel No: (012) 312 7755
89
ANNEXURE O
SOUTH AFRICAN POLICE SERVICE
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand-delivered, as follows: Head Office, Main Security
gate at 01 Cresswell Road Promat Building Silverton: Applications emailed to:
dpcivacancies@saps.gov.za Applications forwarded by post to be addressed
as follows, for attention The Section Commander: Personnel Management,
(Attention: Col A Wessels / Liuetenant Colonel BK Mhlahlo / Captain MJ
Modisha, Private Bag X94, Pretoria, 0001.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025 at 16:00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a Z83 Form (2021 version), obtainable from
http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. All instructions on the
application form must be adhered to. Failure to do so may result in the rejection
of the application. The post particulars and reference number of the post must
be correctly specified on the application form. A comprehensive Curriculum
Vitae must be submitted together with the application form. Short-listed
applicants will be required to produce original documentation. Qualifications
and driver’s licences submitted will be subjected to verification checking with
the relevant institutions. The South African Police Service will verify the
residential address of applicants and conduct reference checks. Appointments
will be made in terms of the Public Service Act, 1994 (ACT NO 103 OF 1994)
as applicable to the post environment. Applications must be mailed / submitted
timeously. Late applications will not be accepted or considered. If a candidate
is short-listed, it will be expected of him / her to undergo a personal interview
as well as a practical assessment. Short-listed candidates for appointment to
certain identified posts, will be vetted in terms of the Criminal Law (Sexual
Offences and Related Matters) Amendment Act, 2007 (Act No 32 of 2007) and
the Children’s Act, 2005 (Act No 38 of 2005). A candidate, whose particulars
appear in either the National Register for Sex Offenders or Part B of the Child
Protection Register, will be disqualified from the process. Candidates are
expected to disclose if he / she is a respondent in an interim or final protection
order in terms of the Domestic Violence Act, 1998 (Act no 116 of 1998) or
Protection from Harassment Act, 2011 (Act No 17 of 2011), and may be
disqualified from appointment to that post. The Criminal Law (Forensic
Procedures) Amendment Act, Act 37 of 2013 requires that all new
appointments in the South African Police Service as from 31 January 2015
provide a buccal (inside cheek) sample to determine their forensic DNA profile.
The forensic DNA profile derived from the sample will be loaded to the
Elimination Index of the National Forensic DNA Database. All short-listed
candidates will be subjected to fingerprint screening and reference checking.
Persons who retired from the Public Service by taking a severance package,
early retirement or for medical reasons are excluded. Correspondence will be
conducted with successful candidates only. If you have not been contacted
within 3 months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. The South African Police Service is under
no obligation to fill a post after the advertisement thereof. The South African
Police Service is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer and it is the
intention to promote representivity in the Public Service through the filling of
these posts. Persons whose transfer / appointment will promote representivity
will therefore receive preference.
OTHER POST
POST 38/129 : CLEANER REF NO: DPCI/HO/68/2025: PRETORIA (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Governance and Corporate Services: Supply Chain Management (Head
Office)
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 10 qualification will serve as an advantage; Basic literacy, numeracy
and communication skills; *Be able to read and write; The ability to operate
elementary machines and equipment; Willing to work extended hours when
necessary.
DUTIES : Maintaining of high-level hygiene in and around the SAPS premises where
routine tasks are to be performed, which may include inner or outer
parameters; Performing routine tasks such as dusting furniture and floors,
removing refuse bags; Mopping of all tiled floors; Cleaning bathrooms,
90
kitchenware and utensils; Safekeeping and handling of a variety of cleaning
materials. Loading and unloading of goods; Garden maintenance services,
Washing and cleaning of State vehicles, Kitchenware and utensils.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel A Wessels / Lieutenant Colonel BK Mhlahlo / Captain MJ Modisha Tel
No: (012) 846 4067/4110.
91
ANNEXURE P
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/ Other related documentation such as copies
of qualifications, identity document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany
the application when applying for a post as such documentation must only be
produced by shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA
circular 19 of 2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or
occupational registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be
completed as these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or
disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No
late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
pertaining to Senior Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical and competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained
from the National School of government is required prior to the appointment.
Candidates will be required to complete a financial disclosure form and
undergo security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must
provide a police clearance certificate from country of origin (only when
shortlisted). The Department of Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity
employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of
the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment
Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of the Department will be
taken into consideration. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within three (3) months of this
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful.
Faxed applications will not be considered. The department reserves the right
not to fill these positions. Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged
to apply and preference will be given to the EE Targets.
ERRATUM: Kindly take note that the post of Supply Chain Practitioner with Ref
No: 241025/02 advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 37 dated 10
October 2025, the correct enquiry details is: Ms B Tjebane Tel No: (012) 741
7381
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 38/130 : SUPPLY CHAIN CONTRACT PROFESSIONAL REF NO: 311025/01 (X2
POSTS)
(5 Year Contract)
Branch: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification at NQF level 7. An NQF level 8 or 9 will serve
as an added advantage. Professional procurement and SCM registration (e.g.
MCIPS) or equivalent. Five (5) years of experience at a senior managerial
level. Five (5) years’ experience in infrastructure procurement and Supply
Chain Management. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license.
Thorough knowledge of internationally recognized body of knowledge on best
practice strategic infrastructure procurement and SCM. Full knowledge of all
applicable SCM regulations and guidelines in South Africa. Proven ability to
drive change in a complex environment and ensure implementation of the
Department’s procurement strategies. Framework for managing performance
information. Business strategy transaction and alignment. Problem solving and
analysis. People and diversity management. Client orientation and customer
focus. Excellent communication skills both (verbal and written). Accountability
and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Develop and provide guidance in the implementation of appropriate
infrastructure procurement strategies. Identify and implement measures across
the SCM value chain to ensure that all SCM for the Department’s construction
92
unit consisting of more than 3000 employees is sufficiently effective and
efficient for the construction unit. Provides expert procurement advice,
guidance and recommendations to meet the procurement needs of the
Department. Works closely with all the line managers to ensure Departmental
procurement needs are met. Lead and manage the sourcing process in the
Department. Manages all sourcing activities in the Department by analysing
requirements, developing selection tools and methods that maximize chances
to find best source of procurement and directs the work of evaluation
committee. Provides contracting expert advice and recommendations on
contract drafting and contract lifecycle management. Monitor and review
progress of contractual agreements, coordinates contract extension or
renewal, and as appropriate, reviews invoices, and resolves any problems that
arise. Provides advice to the department on the proper use of the various
systems used for procurement activities. Provides guidance and
recommendations on the design of training sessions on the various systems to
educate the Department on the proper use of those systems.
ENQUIRIES : Mr F Moatshe Tel No: (012) 336 7647
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
OTHER POSTS
POST 38/131 : CHIEF ENGINEER GRADE A REF NO: 311025/02
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R1 266 450 - R1 446 921 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package). Note:
This appointment will be made on the minimum notch of the salary range,
however, a higher notch within the salary range of Grade A will be considered
based in relation to the provisions of the Public Service Regulation 2016 as
amended, i.e. provision of the candidate’s current salary advice.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An Engineering Degree (B Eng / BSc (Eng)) or relevant qualification. Six (6)
years post qualification experience. Compulsory registration with the
Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineer. The
disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Experience in programme and
project management. Engineering design and analysis knowledge.
Understanding of research and development. Excellent computer-aided
engineering applications. Technical consulting. Engineering, professional
judgment and responsiveness. Good communication skills both (verbal and
written). Planning, organizing, negotiation, people, conflict, and changing
management skills. Team leader and decision maker. Financial management
skills.
DUTIES : Manage the area office in the Central Operations directorate. Implementation
of Water Resource. Infrastructure operations. Medium-to-long-term plans to
ensure the continuation of service delivery. Short-term plan to schedule tasks
for efficient operations and maintenance. Effective dam safety practices and
emergency preparedness plans. Emergency plans for any emergency situation
that may jeopardize lives and equipment in the area office. Maintenance and
betterment plans, including general maintenance and related facilities. Provide
leadership and directions as well as be responsible for facilities for financial
management and corporate support in the Cluster Officer. Prepare and
manage the Area office budget. Manage and control state-owned land and
facilities related to water resource infrastructure. Ensure monitoring and
evaluation of Cluster Office activities as well as reporting thereon., financial
management administration, people management and technical staff
development. Promote good stakeholder relations and ensure a customer-
focused service delivery related to water resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N Buthelezi Tel No: (012) 741 7302
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to do practical test.
93
POST 38/132 : ENGINEER PRODUCTION GRADE A-C REF NO: 311025/03 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management
Dir: Civil Engineering
Sub-Directorate: Open Channel Systems
SALARY : R879 342 – R1 323 267 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package), (Offer
will be based on proven years of experience)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Civil Engineering Degree (B.Eng / BSc.Eng). Three (3) years post-
qualification engineering experience relevant to Water Engineering.
Registration with Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional
Engineer (Pr.Eng) is a requirement. The disclosure of a valid, unexpired
driver’s license is also required, as site visits and travel form part of the job
description. Competency and experience in the implementation of civil
engineering projects, as well as the design of hydraulic structures and water
conveyance systems, is essential. A strong background in Water Engineering
is essential, while experience in Geotechnical Engineering, Structural
Engineering, and Project Management will be considered advantageous.
Proficiency in the following computer-aided design software packages will also
be an added advantage: Hec-RAS, AutoCAD, AutoCAD Civil 3D, ArcGIS,
Prokon, and Slide. Additional competencies and knowledge include
engineering design and analysis, legal compliance, computer-aided
engineering applications, project management, strategic capability and
leadership, financial management skills, and excellent communication skills
(verbal and written).
DUTIES : Plan and design civil engineering projects. Develop tender specifications.
Perform reviews, approvals, and audits of engineering designs in line with
established design principles, theories, and standards. Supervise engineering
work and processes. Optimise design and cost-effectiveness of open channel
projects, including risk management. Evaluate, edit, and authorise all designs,
reports, engineering drawings, and specifications. Manage resources by
preparing and consolidating inputs for effective utilisation. design of service
roads, sub-soil drains, hydraulic structures, pump houses, chutes, retaining
walls, embankments, bridges, super-passages, berms, and boundary fences
etc Manage consulting engineers and/or contractors, including contract
administration and resolution of claims. Mentor and train Candidate Engineers
and Technicians. Manage administrative, financial, and personnel-related
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. HH Luttig Tel No: (012) 336 8095
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 38/133 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A – C REF NO:
311025/04
Branch: Regulation Compliance and Enforcement
Dir: Compliance Monitoring
Sd: Stream Flow Reduction Activities
SALARY : R343 842 - R586 665 per annum, (OSD), (Offer will be based on proven years
of experience)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Environmental Management or Natural Sciences.
Experience in compliance monitoring activities for SFRA related activities will
serve as an added advantage. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s
license. Good computer literacy and writing skills. Good communication skills
both written and verbal. Knowledge and understanding of water and
environmental legislation (National Water Act 1998, National Environmental
Management Biodiversity Act, 2004, and related legislation. Knowledge of
compliance monitoring with an understanding of prevailing principles of
Integrated Water Resource Management, water resource protection and
Catchment Management. Knowledge of GIS. Willingness to travel extensively
and work irregular hours.
DUTIES : Provide technical guidance in the development and implementation of
regulatory policies and strategies, procedures and guidelines for compliance
monitoring for Stream Flow Reduction Activities (SFRA). Promote and
continuously improve effective compliance monitoring of water users within
SFRA fraternity. Conduct compliance monitoring for SFRA related water uses
94
against conditions and obligation attached to water use authorisations.
Conduct oversight assessment for compliance monitoring of SFRA related
activities, coordinate and provide capacity building internally and externally,
Liaise with Enforcement unit to ensure that non-compliances are dealt with
successfully. Promote and establish partnerships for effective compliance
monitoring with other Regulatory Authorities and the regulated community.
Assist in the development and continuously improvement of Standard
Operating Procedures, Guidelines and Business Processes for SFRA.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Siboniso Mkhaliphi Tel No: (012) 336 8048
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 38/134 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Head Office, Cd: Water Resource
Infrastructure Operations and Maintenance
Branch: Finance (Wte) Cd: Dir: Revenue Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office:
Infrastructure Management: Head Office Ref No: 311025/05
Finance WTE Ref No: 311025/06
REQUIREMENTS : A Secretarial Diploma or equivalent qualification. Three (3) to five (5) years
‘experience in rendering a support service to Senior Management. Excellent
computer literacy skills. Advanced proficiency in Microsoft Office suite. Good
office management skills and knowledge of administrative procedures. Sound
organizational skills. Good people skills. High level of reliability. Ability to act
with tact and discretion. Ability to research and analyse documents and
situations. Good grooming and presentation skills. Self-management and
motivation. Knowledge of dispute resolution process. Knowledge of basic
financial management. People and Diversity management. Problem solving
and Analysis. The successful candidate must be highly reliable, self-motivated,
flexible, creative, client and customer focused. Remains up to date regarding
the prescripts, policies and procedures applicable to her / his work terrain to
ensure efficient and effective support to the manager. Excellent communication
skills (verbal and written). Good accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial / receptionist support service to the manager. Implement
administrative procedures for the component. Receive telephone calls and
visitors on behalf of the manager. Implement policies and procedures. Engage
supplier regarding purchased materials. Develop implementation plan. Ensure
that financial procedures are observed in the section. Compile monthly reports
and present to the managers. Do early warning systems. Liaise with travel
agencies to make travel arrangements for the DDG office. Arrange meetings
and events for the manager and staff in the unit. Process all invoices that
emanate from the activities of the work of the manager including the travel and
subsistence claims for the unit. Draft routine correspondence and reports
including records of basic minutes of the meetings of the manager where
required. Administer matters like leave registers and telephone accounts and
proper filing of documents. Receive, record and distribute all incoming and
outgoing documents. Collect all relevant documents to enable the manager to
prepare for meetings. Provide feedback on identified administrative gaps.
Provide records on goods and services procured and handle all the
procurement items for the office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Ndumo Tel No: (012) 741 7302 (Infrastructure Management: Head Office)
Ms S Ndhlovu Tel No: (012) 336 7981 (Finance WTE)
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
95
ANNEXURE Q
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Free State Department of Agriculture and Rural Development is an equal opportunity affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representativity (race, gender and disability) in the Department
through the filling of these posts and candidates whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote
representativity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications, Quoting the reference number, must be forwarded to Mrs S
Hlekiso, Private Bag X02, Bloemfontein, 9301 or delivered by Hand to Mrs S
Hlekiso in Room 228, 2nd Floor, Admin Building, Glen. Email:
cpswarts17@gmail.com
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
NOTE : Nominations for candidates / Applications must be accompanied by a
comprehensive curriculum vitae, accurately detailing the qualifications, copies
of academic qualifications, professional membership (if applicable), relevant
experience and the identity document. Applicants must clearly indicate the
reference number of the Advisory Board that is being applied for on the
covering letter of the application. Only short-listed candidates will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following an invitation from the Department to
attend an interview, and such qualifications and other related document(s)
should be in line with the requirements of the advertisement. Qualification
certificates must not be copies of certified copies. Applications received after
the closing date and those that do not comply with these instructions will not
be considered. The onus is on the applicants to ensure that their applications
are emailed or hand delivered timeously. Candidates who possess foreign
qualifications and/or short courses certificates must take it upon themselves to
have their qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). Dual citizenship holder must provide the Police Clearance certificate
from country of origin when shortlisted. All non-SA citizens will be required to
submit a copy of proof of South African permanent residence when shortlisted.
Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal
record, financial checks, qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference
checks and employment verification). Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3)
months after the closing date of this advertisement, please consider your
application as unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to make
any appointment(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered. The
Department does not accept applications via fax. Glen College of Agriculture
under the Free State Department of Agriculture and Rural Development is an
institution of Higher Learning that facilitates and provides structured agricultural
education and training in line with Agricultural Education and Training (AET)
strategy. The Glen College executes its mandate within the prescripts of the
Higher Education Act 101 of 1997, which requires that the institution should
appoint members to serve on the Glen College Board.
OTHER POST
POST 38/135 : GLEN COLLEGE ADVISORY BOARD: DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO: FSGCB 03/10/2025
(Three years from 01 November 2025 until 31 October 2028)
The Glen College of Agriculture hereby invites nominations/applications for six
(6) external advisory board members who will be serving on the Glen College
Advisory Board on a part-time basis.
SALARY : Glen College Board sitting (inclusive of preparation) in accordance with
Treasury Regulations Section 20.2.3. Subsistence and travelling allowances
when attending College Board activities and meetings will be paid by the
Department in accordance with the applicable guidelines.
CENTRE : Glen College of Agriculture
REQUIREMENTS : The nominee / applicant must have suitable experience or expertise. Diversity
and demographics of South Africa shall be taken into consideration during the
selection process. Moreover, the below criteria will be considered in order to
cater for the three Advisory Board Committees i.e. Human Resources and
96
Ethics Committee, Finance and Audit Committee and a Senate Committee:
Candidates must have at least holds a PhD Degree in Agriculture or in
Education with a minimum of ten (10) years’ working experience with academic
programmes, curriculum development or quality assurance in Institutions of
Higher Learning and currently working with Academic programmes, curriculum
development or quality assurance in an Institution of Higher Learning.
Individuals that holds at least a Degree in Accounting, Finance, Economics or
Auditing. Individuals that have extensive farming experience (more than ten
(10) years or an active role player in the agricultural sector, local municipality
or Glen College alumni.
DUTIES : The College Board will direct, guide and advise on the following: The
implementation and revision of the Glen College of Agriculture strategy to
ensure execution of strategic goals as approved by the MEC through Head of
Department of Agriculture and Rural Development; Matters concerning the
College but fall within the powers of the Executive Authority; Agricultural
training and fundraising strategy of the College to the Department; Creation of
conducive learning and teaching environment for the academic project of the
College; Ensuring that the College operates within a national mandate and also
reflect regional diversity by responding to unique agricultural production
imperatives; Ensures that the College establishes Committees; Ensures
involvement of students in the governance and operations of the College;
Monitor and evaluate use of funds and resources to ensure prudent utilization
in accordance with PFMA; Ensure development of strategic, operations, and
risk management plans; Ensure monitoring and evaluation of strategic,
operations, and risk management plans; Ensures the development and offering
of academic programmes in line with standards set by different academic
bodies; Ensures that the College keeps a database of all registered
learners/beneficiaries; Ensures that the College register all qualified diplomats
and graduates to the National Learners Register of SAQA; Ensure that the
College keeps a traceability record of all learners registered or previously
registered with the College; Advise the Department on appointment of
Principal; Recommend approval of policies and strategic plan of the College to
the Department; Report quarterly to the Chief Director and HOD; Advise on the
development of business models for the College to be financially viable and
self-sustainable; Advise on the development of a marketing strategy;
Promotion of good governance and accountability; and Promotion of
intergovernmental relationships.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Swarts at 083 406 9787
NOTE : Members of the board will be appointed either (1) in their personal capacities
(2) to represent their relevant organizations and must broadly represent South
African Society. Confirmation of the availability of the nominee is also required.
Preference will be given to candidates whose appointments will enhance
representativity.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
NOTE : Directions to applicants: Applications must only be done via the online
recruitment platform for the Department at: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-
Recruitment/Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
copies of qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of
the interview following communication from Human Resources. The application
must indicate the correct Job title, the office where the position is advertised
and the Reference number as stated in the advert. Failure by the applicant to
fully complete the application form will lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applications filed by hand on the Z83 will
unfortunately not be considered. Should you be in a possession of foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Dual citizenship holders must
provide the Police Clearance certificate from country of origin when shortlisted.
All non-SA Citizens will be required to submit a copy of proof of South African
permanent residence when shortlisted. Applications that do not comply with the
above-mentioned requirements will not be considered. Suitable candidates will
be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, financial checks,
qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference checks and employment
verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of
97
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered. The
Department does not accept applications via fax or post. Failure to upload and
submit all the requested documents will result in the application not being
considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will be
expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance agreement
within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo a security
clearance three (3) months after appointments. Applicants are informed that
costs associated with the recruitment processes i.e. travelling and
accommodation will be at the expense of the applicants not the Department.
OTHER POSTS
POST 38/136 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 – 3
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 - R1 078 116 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 - R1 247 202 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 - R1 647 630 per annum
(all-inclusive salary package excluding Commuted Overtime and Rural
Allowance and consists of 70% basic salary and 30% flexible portion that be
structured in terms of the applicable rules, Medical Aid (Optional). (Applicants
might be required to enter into a commuted overtime contract).
CENTRE : Dihlabeng Regional Hospital Ref No: H/M/1/2025 (X1 Post)
Bongani Regional Hodpital Ref No: H/M/2/2025 (X1 Post)
Boitumelo Regional Hospital Ref No: H/M/3/025 (X1 Post)
Mangaung Metro Office Ref No: H/M/4/2025 (X1 Post)
Senorita Ntlabathi District Hospital Ref No: H/M/5/2025 (X1 Post)
Dr JS Moroka District Hospital Ref No: H/M/6/2025 (X1 Post)
National District Hospital Ref No: H/M/7/2025 (X1 Post)
Nketoana/Phumelela Local Area Ref No: H/M/8/2025 (X1 Post)
Phuthuloha District Hospital Ref No: H/M/9/2025 (X1 Post)
Albert Nzula District Hospital Ref No: H/M/10/2025 (X2 Posts)
Thusanong District Office Ref No: H/M/11/2025 (X1 Post)
Mohau District Hospital Ref No: H/M/12/2025 (X1 Post)
Katleho District Hospital Ref No: H/M/13/2025 (X1 Post)
Tokollo District Hospital Ref No: H/M/14/2025 (X1 Post)
Fezi Ngubentombi District Hospital Ref No: H/M/15/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Practitioner.
Registration with a professional council: Registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Medical
Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees,
of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner
after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-
qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after
registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign-qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform community service as required in South Africa. Inherent
requirements of the job: Commuted overtime is compulsory. Matric.
Appropriate qualification that allows for registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Practitioner (Independent Practice). Registration with HPCSA as Medical
Practitioner. Current annual registration with HPCSA (2025/2026). Experience:
Grade I: None after registration as Medical Practitioner with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in respect of South African
qualified employees. For foreign qualified Medical Practitioners, requirement is
a one-year relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
98
recognized foreign health professional Council where Community Service is
not a requirement, as required in South Africa. Candidates must meet the
prescribed requirements of the post/s. Knowledge and Skills: ACLS ATLS,
APLS.
DUTIES : Candidate will have to perform commuted overtime duties (Compulsory & non-
negotiable) in line with the relevant policy. Render outreach and support
services to other levels of care in our drainage areas (Free State Province).
Reduce medical litigation by exercising good clinical ethos. Perform clinical
governance and ensure compliance with all legal and statutory requirements
with FSDoH OHSC, HPCSA, CMSA, UFS. Medical Administration: Perform all
reasonable duties as directed by the Head of Department/Head of Clinical unit/
Medical Specialist: Neurosurgery Department. Conducting clinical audits.
Monitoring and evaluating of relevant clinical effectiveness indicators.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. D Ndaba Tel No: (051) 408 1864
APPLICATIONS : to be directed to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment/
POST 38/137 : CHIEF SKILLS DEVELOPMENT OFFICER
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Home Owner Allowance,
Medical Aid (Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Corporate Office, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, plus Bachelor Degree or Advanced Diploma NQF 7 as
recognized by SAQA. 3 years’ experience in the Skills Development
Environment at supervisory level. Driver’s License, Advanced Computer Skills.
Occupationally Directed Education, Training and Development Practitioner
Certificate will be added as advantage. Knowledge And Skills: Skills
Development Act, Public Services Regulations, Public Services Act, Labor
Relations Act, Constitution, National Qualifications Framework Act, Relevant
SETAs & PSETA, Public Service HR Development Strategic Framework, Skills
Audit Methodology, Facilitation, Moderation, Report Writing, Analytical,
Presentation, Research, Communication Skills (verbal & written), good
interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Develop, review, monitor policies and programs and provide inputs to HRD
Strategies. Co-ordinate and Implement Learning and Development Programs
within the department. Co-ordinate the planning and implementation of a skills
audit. Manage resources to ensure that the objectives of the component are
achieved.
ENQUIRIES : Me. M Voster Tel No: (051) 408 1733
APPLICATIONS : To be send to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
POST 38/138 : SKILLS DEVELOPMENT OFFICER
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Home Owner Allowance,
Medical Aid (Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Corporate Office, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, plus Bachelor Degree NQF L7 as recognized by SAQA. 2
years’ experience in the Skills Development Environment, Driver’s License and
Driving Skills, Computer Skills. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge: Skills
Development Act, Public Services Regulations, Public Services Act, Labour
Relations Act, Constitution, Skills Audit Methodology Skills: Facilitation,
Moderation, Report Writing, Analytical, Presentation, Research,
Communication Skills (verbal & written), good interpersonal relations.
Recommendation: Occupationally Directed Education, Training and
Development Practitioner Certificate
DUTIES : Assist with the compilation of the Workplace Skills Plan, Annual Training Plan,
Annual Training Report and Skills Audit. Assist in the implementation of the
WSP, Planned Training Interventions and Compulsory Training Programs.
Coordinate developmental programs. Monitor effectiveness of training
interventions implemented.
ENQUIRIES : Me. M Voster Tel No: (051) 408 1733
APPLICATIONS : To be send to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
99
ANNEXURE R
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
OFFICE OF THE PREMIER
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 38/139 : HEAD OF DEPARTMENT (HOD): GAUTENG DEPARTMENT OF ROADS
AND TRANSPORT REF NO: REFS/GDRT/2025/03
(3-year performance-based contract, renewable for a further period of 2 years,
dependent on performance)
SALARY : R2 352 642 – R2 650 233 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package),
plus a 10% non-pensionable allowance applicable to Heads of Department.
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant post graduate qualification (NQF Level 8 in terms of SAQA
standards) in Transport Planning, Urban and Regional Planning, Civil
Engineering, Public Administration, Public Management, and a minimum of ten
(10) year’s relevant experience at senior management level. Key
Competencies: Proven ability to operationalize and ensure compliance with
legislation and policy development at national, provincial and local level.
Demonstrable experience in management at an executive level, with a multi-
billion-rand budget as well as a good understanding of and competency in
Financial Management Systems including cost containment, budgeting,
expenditure control, revenue collection and revenue generation. Knowledge
and understanding of government priorities. Insight into Government’s
Outcomes Based Approach, including performance monitoring and evaluation.
Strategic leadership change management and project management.
Capabilities should include service delivery innovation, compliance with the
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and financial regulatory frameworks
underpinning good governance in South Africa. Excellent co-ordination,
communication, networking, negotiation, corporate governance, exceptional
reporting skills and multi-tasking skills. Ability to work under pressure and
willingness to work long and irregular hours and travel extensively.
DUTIES : Serve as Accounting Officer of the Department in accordance with the
provisions of the PFMA. Providing strategic leadership to the Department;
Overseeing the development, implementation and monitoring of organisational
programmes in line with organisational policies. Ensuring sound financial
management and application of good corporate governance principles. Provide
strategic leadership in the delivery of integrated, sustainable, and efficient
transport and overall management of the Department’s programmes by
aligning all departmental plans with the National Development Plan (NDP),
National and Provincial Government Strategic Objectives, Transformation,
Modernisation and Reindustrialisation [TMR] Programme and GGT 2030.
Ensure sound governance, ethical leadership, and effective performance
management within the department. Strengthen intergovernmental relations
and stakeholder engagement, including with municipalities, SOEs, and the
private sector. Drive innovation in transport infrastructure.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Pange Radebe at (066) 315 6970
APPLICATIONS : should be sent through RecruitmentHOD.Premier@gauteng.gov.za quoting
the relevant reference number to Human Resources Administration. No late
applications will be considered.
NOTE : Applicants should please note the following: The successful candidate will be
required to enter into an employment contract and conclude an annual
performance agreement with the Premier of Gauteng within three (3) months
of commencement of duty. The recommended/short-listed candidates will be
subjected to security clearance. Qualifications will be verified (it is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South
African Qualifications Authority, i.e. SAQA). The incumbent will be required to
disclose his/her financial interest in accordance with the prescribed regulations.
NB. Requirement for all senior management positions: Nyukela Programme:
Pre-entry Certificate to Senior Management Services as endorsed by DPSA
which is an online course, endorsed by the National School of Government
(NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry
into the SMS and the full details can be sourced by the following
link:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme.The
successful candidate will be required to provide proof of completion of the NSG
100
Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme Certificate for
entry into the SMS. Qualifying applicants should submit their application on the,
New Application Form (Z83), found on www.dpsa.gov.za, Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each application for employment form must be fully completed,
duly signed and initialled by the applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to
disqualification of the application during the selection process. The Z83 should
be accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed current and previous
work experience including dates). The communication from the HR of the
Department regarding the requirements of the certified qualifications, ID,
Drivers licence etc. will be limited to shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only
shortlisted candidates for the post will be required to submit certified
documents on or before the day of the interview following the communication
from HR. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. Due to the large number of applications, we envisage to
receive, applications will not be acknowledged. Should you not be contacted
within 3 months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful. The Gauteng Office of the Premier reserves the
right to cancel the filling/ not to fill any vacancy that was advertised during any
stage of the recruitment process.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/140 : HEAD OF DEPARTMENT (HOD): DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO: REFS/GDARD/2025/04
(3-year performance-based contract, renewable for a further period of 2 years,
dependent on performance)
This is a re-advertisement; applicants who applied previously are encouraged
to apply.
SALARY : R2 352 642 – R2 650 233 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package),
plus a 10% non-pensionable allowance applicable to Heads of Department.
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant post graduate qualification (NQF Level 8 in terms of SAQA
standards) in Agriculture, Public Administration, Public Management, Business
Administration or any relevant field, and a minimum of ten (10) year’s relevant
experience at senior management level. Key Competencies: Proven ability to
operationalize and ensure compliance with legislation and policy development
at national, provincial and local level. Demonstrable experience in
management at an executive level, with a large complex entity budget as well
as a good understanding of and competency in Financial Management
Systems including cost containment, budgeting, expenditure control, revenue
collection and revenue generation. Knowledge and understanding of
government priorities. Insight into Government’s Outcomes Based Approach,
including performance monitoring and evaluation. Strategic leadership change
management and project management. Capabilities should include service
delivery innovation, exceptional reporting skills as well as the ability to
communicate eloquently, compliance with the Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA) and financial regulatory frameworks underpinning good governance in
South Africa. Excellent co-ordination, communication, networking, negotiation,
corporate governance, and multi-tasking skills. Ability to work under pressure
and willingness to work long and irregular hours and travel extensively.
DUTIES : Providing strategic leadership and driving the strategic planning and
implementation processes of the Department; Complying with the Public
Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations and Human Resource
Management framework of the Public Service, Managing the performance and
service delivery of the Department, Implementing appropriate policies,
strategies, structures, systems and processes to deliver on mandates, Making
contribution to the broader strategic environment of Gauteng, Ensuring that the
highest standard of corporate governance and ethics are upheld. Driving the
implementation of the Growing Gauteng Together [GGT] 2030 Plan of Action
and work closely with the Gauteng City Region (GCR) Executives, Accounting
Officers, Oversight committees, stakeholders and business on implementing
the Premier’s vision of a ‘smart province. Over-seeing the development,
implementation and monitoring of Departmental programmes and projects;
structures, systems and processes to deliver on mandates and contributing to
the broader strategic environment of Gauteng.
101
ENQUIRIES : Ms Pange Radebe at 066 315 6970
APPLICATIONS : should be sent through RecruitmentHOD.Premier@gauteng.gov.za quoting
the relevant reference number to Human Resources Administration. No late
applications will be considered.
NOTE : Applicants should please note the following: The successful candidate will be
required to enter into an employment contract and conclude an annual
performance agreement with the Premier of Gauteng within three (3) months
of commencement of duty. The recommended/short-listed candidates will be
subjected to security clearance. Qualifications will be verified (it is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South
African Qualifications Authority, i.e. SAQA). The incumbent will be required to
disclose his/her financial interest in accordance with the prescribed regulations.
NB. Requirement for all senior management positions: Nyukela Programme:
Pre-entry Certificate to Senior Management Services as endorsed by DPSA
which is an online course, endorsed by the National School of Government
(NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry
into the SMS and the full details can be sourced by the following
link:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-rogramme. The
successful candidate will be required to provide proof of completion of the NSG
Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme Certificate for
entry into the SMS. Qualifying applicants should submit their application on the,
New Application Form (Z83), found on www.dpsa.gov.za, Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each application for employment form must be fully completed,
duly signed and initialled by the applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to
disqualification of the application during the selection process. The Z83 should
be accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed current and previous
work experience including dates). The communication from the HR of the
Department regarding the requirements of the certified qualifications, ID,
Drivers licence etc. will be limited to shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only
shortlisted candidates for the post will be required to submit certified
documents on or before the day of the interview following the communication
from HR. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. Due to the large number of applications, we envisage to
receive, applications will not be acknowledged. Should you not be contacted
within 3 months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful. The Gauteng Office of the Premier reserves the
right to cancel the filling/ not to fill any vacancy that was advertised during any
stage of the recruitment process.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
102
ANNEXURE S
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWA-ZULU NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
APPLICATIONS : Applications forwarded to or Hand Delivery, 34 Wilson Street, Dundee, 3000.
Umzinyathi Health District Office, Private Bag X2052, Dundee, 3000.
Application may also be emailed to: Bongumusa.masondo@kznhealth.gov.za
or Mbalenhle.Ngwenya@kznhealth.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. M Ngwenya
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025 at 16h00
NOTE : NB: Please note that due to financial constraints, there will be no payment of
S & T and resettlement claims
OTHER POST
POST 38/141 : MEDICAL OFFICER –NHI REQUIRED FOR PHC REF NO: NHI/02/2025 (X3
POSTS)
Duration: Until 31 March 2026
SALARY : R639.00 rate per hour inclusive of rural allowance. Maximum 3hoursTime
spent at the clinic Kilometers travelled Exclusion: Doctors working for the
Department of Health will not be considered for NHI posts. NB: Travel claim
capped at no more than 200km’s return per day and 2.0cc engine capacity.
CENTRE : Umzinyathi Health District Office
REQUIMENTS : Matric/ Senior Certificate (Grade 12) MBCHB Medical Degree plus.
Registration with the HPCSA as an Independent Medical Practitioner plus
current registration certificate with the HPCSA. Valid driver’s license
Knowledge, Skills And Competencies Required: Sound knowledge, experience
and clinic skills in General Medicine, but especially in the following fields:
Primary Health Care Antenatal care Child Health and IMCI HIV Medicine TB
Medicine Non-communicable Diseases Emergency care Good communication
and leadership skills Knowledge and understanding of Batho Pele Principles
and Patients’ Rights Charter Ability to work as part of the PHC Team Sound
Medical ethics A diploma in HIV Care or Family Medicine would be an
advantage.
DUTIES : Work as a consulting doctor in Primary Health Care Clinics in Umzinyathi
Health District. Provision of good quality, patient-centered and community-
orientated care for all patients. Promote and ensure good continuity of care
Examine, investigate, diagnose and oversee the treatment of patients,
including: Chronic ailments, TB, patients for ARVs, sick children, antenatal
patients and mental health care users etc. Participate in and support CPD
(Continuous Professional Development) and training of PHC doctors and
nurses. Provide medical support to PHC clinical staff. Ensure that relevant
patient’s statics are maintained. Maintain accurate health records in
accordance with Legal Ethical considerations. Provide preventive health
interventions and measures to promote health. Handle disability grant
assessments. Perform duties as delegated by supervisor. The incumbent will
be accountable to the Clinic Operational Manager, Medical Manager and DCST
Family Physician, where applicable.
ENQUIRIES : Ms.DLS Zulu Tel No: (034) 299 9100
DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY
The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Provincial Treasury is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer and preference will be given to previously disadvantaged groups.
APPLICATIONS : KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Treasury, P O Box 3613, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or
145 Chief Albert Luthuli Road Pietermaritzburg 3200. Applications can also be
submitted via the e-services system, please assess this site (eservices.gov.za)
FOR ATTENTION : Ms N Cele
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
NOTE : The new Z83 form must be used effective 1st January 2021 and can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies.The Z83 must be accompanied by
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only provisionally shortlisted applicants will
be contacted and requested to submit their supporting documents. The
Department will also conduct reference checks with HR of current /previous
employer(s) beside the references provided on CV. Candidates will be
103
subjected security screening and a technical assessment. Under no
circumstances will be faxed, emailed and late applications be accepted. The
Department discourages applications that are registered and will not be held
responsible for applications sent via registered mail which are not collected
from the post office. It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that the
application reaches the Department timeously. Should you not hear from the
Department within 3 months of the closing date, please regard your application
as unsuccessful. Regrettably, due to excessive budget cuts, the department is
not in a position to meet any travel and subsistence costs relating to recruitment
processes, or relocation and resettlement costs for successful candidates.
Preferences: Females and people with disabilities who meet the requirements.
OTHER POSTS
POST 38/142 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE AND SPATIAL PLANNING
REF NO: KZNPT 25/31
Re-advertise
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A 3-year NQF Level 7 qualification with Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
as a major. A minimum of 3-years in a GIS environment within infrastructure
planning and delivery. A valid driver’s license. People with disabilities without
valid Driver’s license will be assisted by the department to meet work related
travel obligations. Skills, Knowledge and Competencies: Extensive working
knowledge of applicable national and provincial policies and legislation is
required: Advanced Project Management. Contract Management. Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA). Municipal Finance Management Act
(MFMA). Division of Revenue Act. Construction Industry Development Board
Act (CIDB). Treasury Regulations. Provincial Growth and Development
Strategy (PGDS). Provincial Spatial and Economic Development (PSEDS).
Public Finance Management Act – Best Practices. Provincial policy priorities.
Political and socio-economic environment surrounding allocated departments.
Organising. Planning. Facilitation and presentation. Problem solving.
Research. Analytical. Computer literacy. Time management. Inter-personal
relations. Verbal and written communication. Financial management. Project
Planning and Management. Policy analysis and development. Self-disciplined
and able to work under pressure with minimum supervision.
DUTIES : Support, Monitor and Oversee Infrastructure Delivery Management
Improvement. Support, monitor and oversee Infrastructure Portfolio Planning.
Conduct Infrastructure Spatial Planning. Support, monitor and oversee
Infrastructure Project/Programme Review. Oversee and Monitor Operations,
Maintenance and Services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. F Mkhize Tel No: (033) 897 4441
POST 38/143 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL AUDITS REF NO: KZNPT 25/4
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A 3-year NQF level 7 qualification or higher in Auditing and
Accounting/Accounting/ Accounting Sciences in Financial Accounting/
Accounting Sciences in Internal Auditing/Financial Accounting/Internal
Auditing. A Minimum of 3 years’ experience in conducting or providing technical
support in internal/ external auditing. Membership of Institute of Internal
Auditors South Africa (II A SA). A valid driver’s license. People with disabilities
without valid Driver’s license will be assisted by the department to meet work
related travel obligations. Skills, Knowledge and Competencies: Detailed
knowledge of public sector, local government and public/private entities
systems and relevant legislation/statutes, including Constitution. PFMA and
Treasury Regulations. Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA). PSRF
(Public Service Regulatory Framework). Standards for the Professional
Practice of Internal Auditing. General Recognised Accounting Principles.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Modified Cash Standards. MTEF
budget compilation and analysis. Internal Auditing techniques. Enterprise Risk
Management. Team Mate Audit system. Verbal and written communication
abilities Problem-solving. Analytical and numeracy. Auditing and report writing.
Analytical and quantitative method tools. Verbal communication and
104
presentation. Good interpersonal relations. Research and analysis. Report
writing and general writing. Project planning and management. Change
management. Time management. Policy development. Report writing.
Statistical and quantitative analysis. Financial management. People
management. Strategic planning and management. Organisational
development and dispute resolution. Chairing of meetings. Excellent verbal
and written communication abilities. Maintain high standard of honesty,
objectivity, diligence and loyalty. due professional care. Computer skills:
Spreadsheets (MS Excel), word processing (MS Word), PowerPoint (MS
Office), internet and intranet.
DUTIES : Contribute to the development and revision of policies, methodologies, and
procedure manuals for Internal Audit services for the province. Contribute to
the development and revision of the strategic and annual plans for Internal
Audit services for the Provincial Departments based on the results for the
Provincial or Departmental risk assessments. Supervise and implement the
internal audit project, policies, methodologies and procedure manual. Provide
value adding recommendations for improving the institutions governance, risks
and controls and monitor the implementation thereof. Maintain relationships
with client management, and any other internal and external stakeholders.
Manage the resources of the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Ngcobo Tel No: (033) 897 4650
105
ANNEXURE T
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO
DEPARTMENT OF SPORT, ARTS AND CULTURE
Department of Sport, Arts & Culture is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer with clear
employment equity targets Women and People with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are hereby invited for filling of vacant posts, which exist in the
Limpopo Department of Sport, Arts and Culture. Applicants with foreign
qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their qualifications are
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and only
shortlisted candidates will submit SAQA verification. Applicants will be assisted
to apply through the E-recruitment system Applicants should apply using E-
Recruitment system at https://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za, at The Department
of Sport, Arts and Culture, 21 Biccard Street, Polokwane, Olympic Towers
Enquiries: Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Ms Mothupi PP, and Ms Makaulule MM
@015 284 4143/ 4109/4032 / 4144.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
NOTE : Department of Sport, Arts & Culture is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer with clear employment equity targets. Applicants should apply using
E-Recruitment system at https://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za, click on browse
jobs and select Department of Sport, Arts and Culture. Certified copies of
educational qualifications, academic records, identity documents and a valid
driver’s license (where required) are only required to be presented on the day
of the interview. Faxed or e-mailed applications will not be considered. Failure
to comply with this requirement will result in the candidate being disqualified.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
However, should there be any dissatisfaction; applicants are hereby advised to
seek reasons for the above administration action in terms of Promotion of
Administrative Justice Act (PAJA), Act No.3 of 2000. Pre-Entry Assessments
All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an
Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. Practical
Exercise (a) All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements. (b) The
assessment must comprise a formal test to determine a candidate's proficiency
in core functions and the technical dimensions specified in the job
advertisement. https://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/documents/ep/2024 The
closing date for submission of applications is the 31 October 2025. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to security clearance and pre-employment
verifications. Successful incumbent will be expected to sign a performance
agreement within one month after assumption of duty. The successful
candidate will also be required to disclose their financial interest in accordance
with the prescribed regulations The advert will be posted on the following
websites www.sac.limpopo.gov.za / www.limpopo.gov.za, and
www.dpsa.gov.za
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 38/144 : DIRECTOR: LEGAL SERVICES REF NO: DSAC 2025/01
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package) of
which 30% may be structured according to the individual’s needs
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in Law as recognized by SAQA.
A minimum of five (5) years’ experience at Middle/Senior Management level in
Legal services. SMS pre-entry (Nyukela) certificate upon appointment. A valid
driver’s license (except for persons with disabilities).Core And Process
Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership; People Management and
Empowerment, Programme and Project Management; Financial Management;
Change Management; Computer Literacy; Knowledge Management, Service
Delivery Innovation; Problem Solving and Analysis; Client Orientation and
Customer Focus; Communication; Public Service Knowledge; Negotiation,
106
Research, Policy formulation and Analytic thinking. sound understanding of the
functioning of Public Service system and good background in service delivery,
turn around and change management strategy. Knowledge And Skills: and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the public services,
Knowledge of the South African Constitutional Law and comparative legal
systems, administrative law, interpretation of statutes, public sector legislation
and regulations (including the PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Public Service Act
and Regulations, Municipal Systems/ Structures Act), commercial law, law of
contract, legislative drafting, good Communication skills, report writing skills,
facilitation skills, co-ordination skills, liaison skills, networking, interpersonal
skills, leadership skills, analytical skills, change and knowledge management,
planning and organising skills, people Management, financial Management,
problem Solving, Legal interpretation, time Management, team player, strategic
planning, policy analysis and development.
DUTIES : Provide leadership and strategic direction in the directorate: Align the
information management and information technology strategy with the
strategic direction, management plans and business processes of the
department, monitor and ensure the implementation of the strategic plans,
align individual performance to the strategic business objectives of the sub-
directorate. implement and report on strategic frameworks in functional
responsibility, monitor the attainability & sustainability of performance
standards as per departmental objectives and oversee the development of
Operational Plans to give strategic direction to the sub-directorate by managing
& coordinating the activities. Provide legal advice and assistance in the
department: Ensure a well-coordinated labour litigation service, arbitration and
labour court matters, conduct research on legal matters, consult with Executive
Authorities to obtain relevant information for the purpose of legal assistance,
interpret laws and policies on behalf of the Department, draft, edit ,amend legal
documents and assist with the preparation of other documents with legal
bearing e.g. tender documents, provide legal inputs concerning policy
formulation and implementation and serve on task team s/working groups from
a legal point of view. Draft and review legislation to ensure alignment with
departmental and governmental outcomes and priorities. Drafting or editing
international agreements and other legal contracts and documents: Manage
legal instruction, ensure drafting and editing of labour contracts for the
provincial administration, ensure consultation within the department and
submission of well researched legal documents and ensure that the
Department’s interest is considered and protected when entering into contracts
with national or international third parties and in policies and legislation.
Manage resources (physical, human and finance): Ensure proper
implementation of budget, ensure that preparations of budget are in line with
strategic plans, & department objectives, monitor and report on the utilization
of equipment, evaluate and monitor performance of employees, ensure
capacity and development of staff, manage discipline in the workplace and
enhance and maintain employee motivation and cultivate a culture of
performance management
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Ms Mothupi PP and Mr Mnisi NF Tel No: (015) 284
4143 / 4109 / 4032 / 4186
OTHER POSTS
POST 38/145 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CULTURE AND CREATIVE INDUSTRIES REF NO:
DSAC 2025/02
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Arts and Cultural Studies or
as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of three to three (3) – five (5) years of
experience in Culture and Creative Industries environment, of which 3 years
must be at an Assistant Director level (Junior Management). A valid driver’s
license (except for persons with disabilities). Knowledge And Skills:
Knowledge: Sound and in-depth knowledge of All Arts and Cultural legislative
frameworks. In-depth knowledge of the legislative and regulatory frameworks
governing the Public Service. Human Resource Management principles. Skills:
Applied Strategic Thinking, Creative Thinking, Citizen Service Orientation,
Decision Making, Communication and Information Management, Diversity
Management, Citizenship focus and responsiveness, Continuous
107
Improvement, Communication and information management, Problem
Analysis and decision-making, Applying Technology, Budgeting and Financial
Management, Networking and building bonds, Project Management, Team
leadership, Planning and Organising, Developing Others, Self-Management,
Team Membership, Report writing skills, Facilitation, Presentation and
Stakeholders Engagement, Research/Analysing, Interpersonal Relationship
skills, Analytical Thinking skills, Ability to self-motivate and work in a team
environment. Advanced human resource management.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of performing arts services: Develop and promote
performing arts programmes, provide support to emerging artists and arts and
culture structures, coordinate and promote performing arts events, festivals
and other related initiatives, develop business and project plans for performing
arts events and projects and manage the development, implementation and
monitoring of performing arts policies. Manage the development of visual arts
Industry in the province: Coordinate planning and executions of visual arts,
craft, design programmes, exhibition and trade fairs, establish and maintain
visual arts committees in the province, facilitate interaction and provide
professional advice to all relevant stakeholders in the sector and research
development initiatives in the sector, provide support and create income
generating opportunities for emerging artists and crafters and develop and
implement policies related to visual arts, craft and design. Manage the
development and distribution of local film and video: Identify, nurture, and
mentor emerging talent in film and video. Provide opportunities to previously
disadvantaged communities, ensure identification and nurturing of talent in film
and video, promote the use of local content on television, provide support to
any person or organisation participating in film and video, manage the
development and implementation of film and video policies and procedures and
develop and implement a marketing plan for film and video. Manage and utilise
human, physical and financial resources in accordance with relevant directives
and legislation: Evaluate and monitor performance of employees, ensure
capacity and development of staff, enhance and maintain employee motivation
and cultivate a culture of performance management, develop a stimulating
working environment for staff through leadership and sound management and
development strategy and manage discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Ms Mothupi PP and Mr Mnisi NF Tel No: (015) 284
4143 / 4109 / 4032 / 4186
POST 38/146 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MUSEUM AND HERITAGE REF NO: DSAC 2025/03
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package) of
which 30% may be Structured according to the individual’s needs.
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate Qualification (NQF level 06) in Heritage Management /
Museum studies, Arts/Cultural Studies as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of
three to three (3) – five (5) years of experience in Museum and Heritage
environment, of which 3 years must be at an Assistant Director level (Junior
Management). A valid driver’s license (except for persons with disabilities).
Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge: Sound and in-depth knowledge of All
relevant n-depth knowledge of museum, heritage, and cultural legislative
frameworks and all relevant legislative frameworks that govern the Public
Service. Strong grounding in Human Resource Management, Financial
Management, and governance principles. Skills: Applied Strategic Thinking,
Creative Thinking, Citizen Service Orientation, Decision Making,
Communication and Information Management, Diversity Management,
Citizenship focus and responsiveness, Continuous Improvement,
Communication and information management, Problem Analysis and decision-
making, Applying Technology, Budgeting and Financial Management,
Networking and building bonds, Project Management, Team leadership,
Planning and Organising, Developing Others, Self-Management, Team
Membership, Report writing skills, Facilitation, Presentation and Stakeholders
Engagement, Research/Analysing, Interpersonal Relationship skills, Analytical
Thinking skills, Ability to self-motivate and work in a team environment.
DUTIES : Manage transformation and revitalisation of museums and heritage services:
Develop, implement and monitor provincial museum, heritage, and cultural
strategies. Coordinate the revitalisation of museums and heritage activities,
lead the promotion of museum and heritage services to previously
marginalised communities, promotion of material culture from previously
108
marginalised communities. Align Museum and heritage programs to address
social concerns such as poverty alleviation, education, and awareness
campaigns (e.g., HIV/AIDS). Bridge the information gap between government
programs and communities. Ensure enhancement of collection and
conservation: Capacity building to empower communities around local
museums, coordinate and oversee that heritage objects of cultural significance
are identified, graded, acquired, documented, and preserved, ensure rare and
culturally significant objects are secured and maintained to professional
standards. Manage provincial heritage sites that are associated with each
museum and contribute towards the development of a working tool to guide
museum functions. Manage promotion of education, research and tourism:
Building of partnerships with academic institutions to enhance research
initiatives, Collaborate with heritage-tourism clubs, government, and non-
governmental organizations to promote heritage tourism and cultural
experiences., Lead school outreach programs and community engagement
initiatives to complement the curriculum in Limpopo Province, coordinate the
celebration of important national and international days in the Museums and
Heritage calendar and promotion of museums. Ensure contribution towards
global initiative programmes: Build networks with heritage and museum
institutions nationally and globally to facilitate intercultural exchange.,
Coordinate the E-Heritage documentary program and other digital initiatives,
explore investment and development opportunities for heritage development in
the province. identification, acquisition, and provide curatorship to museum or
heritage objects of Limpopo origin that are either overseas and in other
province and participate in the intercultural exchange programs with well-
established heritage institutions in the world. Identify, acquire, and curate
heritage objects of provincial origin. Supervise employees to ensure an
effective museum and heritage service. This would, inter alia, entail the
following: Coordinate and monitor the implementation of Museums operational
plans to ensure alignment with provincial Outcomes and outputs, allocate
duties and do quality control of the work delivered by supervisees, advice and
lead supervisees with regard to all aspects of the work, manage performance,
conduct and discipline of supervisees, ensure that all supervisees are trained
and developed to be able to deliver work of the required professional standards
efficiently and effectively and develop, implement and monitor work systems
and processes to ensure efficient and effective functioning.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Ms Mothupi PP and Mr Mnisi NF Tel No: (015) 284
4143 / 4109 / 4032 / 4186
POST 38/147 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RECREATION AND PROMOTION REF NO: DSAC
2025/04
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package) of
which 30% may be Structured according to the individual’s needs.
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate Qualification (NQF level 06) in Sport Management, Sport
Sciences/ Management / Sport Administration qualification as recognized by
SAQA. A minimum of three to three (3) – five (5) years of experience in Sport
and Recreation environment, of which 3 years must be at an Assistant Director
level (Junior Management). A valid driver’s license (except for persons with
disabilities). Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of sport and recreation in the
South African context, Legislative Frameworks, strategic Frameworks ,
principles and procedures for management including best practices in this
arena, in-depth appreciation of business ethics and the capability to maintain
a high level of confidentiality and sensitivity regarding work issues, able to
withstand the political pressures related to this job, good understanding of the
hub system blueprint, ability to work under pressure and over weekend. Skills:
Applied Strategic Thinking, Creative Thinking, Citizen Service Orientation,
Decision Making, Communication and Information Management, Diversity
Management, Citizenship focus and responsiveness, Continuous
Improvement, Communication and information management, Problem
Analysis and decision-making, Applying Technology, Budgeting and Financial
Management, Networking and building bonds, Project Management, Team
leadership, Planning and Organising, Developing Others, Self-Management,
Team Membership, Report writing skills, Facilitation, Presentation and
Stakeholders Engagement, Research/Analysing, Interpersonal Relationship
skills, Analytical Thinking skills, Ability to self-motivate and work in a team
109
environment. Skill in planning and project management, workshops and
presentation skills and in maintaining composure under pressure while meeting
multiple deadlines. Good computer skills with word processing, spreadsheet,
and other business software to prepare reports, memos, summaries, and
analyses, verbal and written communications skills, active listening skills and
skills in presenting reports and recommendations. Ability to establish and
maintain harmonious working relationships with co-workers, staff and external
contacts, and to work effectively in a professional team environment. Must be
able to handle confrontational situations with diplomacy.
DUTIES : Facilitate Implementation of Recreation Programs: Development recreation
policy and plan and monitor Implementation of Recreation Plan. Coordinate,
plan, and manage community-based recreation activities to increase
participation and engagement. Promote Community Mass Participation:
Encourage broad public involvement in recreational activities, targeting
women, youth, persons with disabilities, the elderly, and rural communities.
Facilitate Community Indigenous Sport: Support the preservation, promotion,
and practice of indigenous sports within communities. Promote Access to
Recreational Facilities. Develop and implement programs that encourage
active living, wellness, and holistic community health. Operational Leadership
and Community Hub Development: developing and implementing frameworks
to involve targeted groups in sport and recreation activities. Establish, oversee,
and manage community hubs, build and maintain partnerships with local
organisations and recreation-related community structures to support hub
development and foster community engagement., develop and implement
interventions to enhance community hubs, including capacity-building
programs for stakeholders to promote certified sport development initiatives.
Provide Operational and tactical guidance for the operational activities within
the sub directorate, ensuring operational and financial objectives are
constituent with departmental objectives, allocate financial, human resources
and related efforts. Manage the performance and impact of the Sub directorate:
Planning and organizing the activities of the Sub-Directorate to ensure
optimum service delivery, monitor own unit’s expenditure, allocate work and
give clear instructions and communicate expectation, perform quality control
on the work delivered, manage performance, conduct and discipline of
subordinates and ensure training and development of subordinates to be able
to deliver work of the required standard efficiently and effectively active
recreation events organised and implemented. Data base active recreation
stakeholders’ development and implement integrated programme of
recreational events, strengthen partnerships with recreational agencies and
Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) to deliver effective programmes to
communities. Utilise parks and open spaces for recreation activities.
Recreation facilities audit, communicate norms and standards for recreation
facilities-monitor MIG recreation. Audit on Sport and Recreation clubs and
membership, ensure recreation clubs affiliate to the relevant organisation,
provide volunteer programme-database. Deliver programme and promote
peace in sport transformation programmes to promote inclusivity: women,
persons with a disability, youth, aged and rural communities. Encourage the
corporate sector to offer active participation in sport and recreation. Link with
private sector sport and recreation initiatives. Facilitate the establishment of
community sport and recreation hubs and clubs. Design and implement
programmes to promote active and healthy lifestyles amongst all age groups
and abilities. Procure and develop a Geographical Information System (GIS)
for hubs, clubs established and schools, Implement outreach programmes for
vulnerable and previous marginalised groups through hubs. Convert hubs into
self-sustainable entities like Community Based Organisations (CBOs), Non-
Profit Organisations (NPOs) or NGOs. Assist to ensure that where clubs are
non-existent, hubs will work jointly with NFs to support the creation of clubs.
Ensure that Sports Councils act as interface to support the linking of hubs/clubs
with federations, municipalities, civil society structures and NGOs to ensure
integration of sports programmes and to avoid duplication of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Ms Mothupi PP and Mr Mnisi NF Tel No: (015) 284
4143 / 4109 / 4032 / 4186
110
POST 38/148 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFRUSTRUCTURE PLANNING AND
MANAGEMENT REF NO: DSAC 2025/05
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package) of
which 30% may be Structured according to the individual’s needs.
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate Qualification (NQF level 06) in Built Environment studies as
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of three to three (3) – five (5) years of
experience in infrastructure project management, of which 3 years must be at
an Assistant Director level (Junior Management). A valid driver’s license
(except for persons with disabilities). Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of Built
environment, government Infrastructure Planning and Delivery, Infrastructure
Delivery Legislative Framework, construction contracts, Infrastructure Delivery
Management System (IDMS) Programme Planning. Knowledge of public
services policies and procedures. Microsoft office applications, financial
management and project management. Skills: Applied Strategic Thinking,
Creative Thinking, Citizen Service Orientation, Decision Making,
Communication and Information Management, Diversity Management,
Citizenship focus and responsiveness, Continuous Improvement,
Communication and information management, Problem Analysis and decision-
making, Applying Technology, Budgeting and Financial Management,
Networking and building bonds, Project Management and spreadsheet skills,
Team leadership, Planning and Organising, Developing Others, Self-
Management, Team Membership, Report writing skills, Facilitation,
Presentation and Stakeholders Engagement, Research/Analysing,
Interpersonal Relationship skills, Analytical Thinking skills, Ability to self-
motivate and work in a team environment
DUTIES : Facilitate the development of infrastructure plans: Develop, review and update
infrastructure delivery frameworks and plans. Develop and implement
infrastructure SOPs. Liaise with Programme leaders and understand the
infrastructure needs, liaise across the different spheres of Government to
understand the infrastructure development plans, participate in and contribute
to the development and review of the Limpopo Integrated Infrastructure Plan
(LIIMP), develop the infrastructure plan (UAMP) to achieve the overall strategic
objectives and to align and leverage off other infrastructure investments and
developments, conduct pre-feasibilities assessments to determine the priority
of projects and to develop the project conceptual frameworks, develop the high
level project timeframe for implementation, test the draft project plan with
stakeholders and amend to include their feedback and priorities development
of the APP and operational plan, develop the Infrastructure Programme
Management Plan (IPMP) and manage service providers to provide
information to support the planning process. Monitor and report on the
implementation of infrastructure plans. Liaison with the implementing Agents.
Manage the performance and impact of the Sub directorate. Planning and
organising the activities of the Sub-Directorate to ensure optimum service
delivery, monitor own unit’s expenditure, allocate work and give clear
instructions and communicate expectation, perform quality control on the work
delivered, manage performance, conduct and discipline of subordinates and
ensure training and development of subordinates to be able to deliver work of
the required standard efficiently and effectively. Ensure infrastructure budget
development and management: Consider the pre-feasibility assessments and
the project plan and develop a draft infrastructure budget, identify budget and
funding sources, prepare presentations and proposals to secure budget
allocation and grant funding, develop the budget and test this with the relevant
stakeholders, submit the budget for approval, develop and implement a budget
tracking tool and track expenditure against planned budget and identify budget
and expenditure anomalies and liaise with relevant parties to implement
corrective action. Manage the procurement of infrastructure: Develop the
departmental Construction Procurement Strategy, develop the infrastructure
procurement plan, draft the relevant terms of reference and bill of quantities,
provide technical input into the procurement review process, review and
comment on proposals that are received, manage that the procurement
process happens in line with this agreed timeframes and review the
appointment of service providers in line with the agreed terms of reference and
conditions of contract.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Ms Mothupi PP and Mr Mnisi NF Tel No: (015) 284
4143 / 4109 / 4032 / 4186
111
POST 38/149 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ACADEMY OF SPORT REF NO: DSAC 2025/06
Sport (for a period of one (1) year contract)
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate Qualification (NQF level 06) in Sport Science as recognized
by SAQA. A minimum of three to three (3) – five (5) years of experience in Sport
environment, of which 3 years must be at an Assistant Director level (Junior
Management). A valid driver’s license (except for persons with disabilities).
Knowledge And Skills: Sound and in-depth knowledge of the South African
Sports Academies Strategic framework and policy guidelines, deep knowledge
and understanding of the national sport and recreation plan, Skills: people
Skills, teamwork, project Management, planning and organising, financial
Management, communication skills, report writing skills, facilitation, budgeting
and research.
DUTIES : Manage the activities of the provincial sport academy: monitor activities of all
District Academies of Sport (DAS), manage, monitor and evaluate the
database of all PAS and DAS athletes and coaches, evaluate and propose
intervention strategies for betterment of Academies systems and programmes,
implement, monitor and evaluate Academy systems and policies in line with
the directives of Provincial Sports Confederation and SASCOC. Provide
regular reports to SASCOC through the Provincial Sports Confederations.
Provide sport science and medicine support: Manage sport specific testing
through scientific protocols, facilitate physiotherapy services for athletes,
facilitate the provision of medical services to athletes and facilitate the provision
of rehabilitation programmes. Manage coaching services, ensure training of
elite coaches, provide qualified elite coaches to nominated talented athletes,
ensure deployment of head coaches during training camps and
championships, conduct research on the latest trends relative to coaching,
provide advice on matters related to coaching. Facilitate and coordinate
scientific and medical support services for athletes and officials. Oversee
sports technology support, aligned with national coaches and the High-
Performance Department of SASCOC. Manage performance squad and
events: Facilitate life skills workshops, liaise with clubs, federations and
confederations, develop sport specific tactics and techniques programs.
Ensure the nurturing and accelerated development of talented athletes through
structured development pathways. Facilitate the provision of career
counselling, life skills, and guidance programs, tailored to the needs of athletes
and officials. Manage the accommodation of provincial athletes and officials in
the PAS in accordance with the selection policy and availability of funding.
Ensure PAS priority codes align with national priority codes, and accommodate
other sports based on provincial demographics and funding availability.
Coordinate exchange programs: Manage talent identification, ensure
deployment of scouts, facilitate access to conducive sport facilities, monitor
usage of the correct criteria for selection of talented athletes, develop and
maintain a data base of elite athlete. Develop and implements the PAS Annual
and Operational Planning and compile, submit and monitor the PAS budget
and performance, and manage the physical assets of PAS. Allocate work and
give clear instructions and communicate expectation, perform quality control
on the work delivered, manage performance, conduct and discipline of
subordinates and ensure training and development of employees to be able to
deliver work of the required standard efficiently and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Ms Mothupi PP and Mr Mnisi NF Tel No: (015) 284
4143 / 4109 / 4032 / 4186
POST 38/150 : LIBRARIAN (X4 POSTS)
Re-advertisement, applicants who applied before are encouraged to apply
again.
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Ntsako Matsakali and Thulamela (Vhembe District), Bela-Bela town and
Roedtan Library (Waterberg District):
Ntsako Matsakali Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/07
Thulamela Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/08
Bela-Bela Town Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/09
Roedtan Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/10
112
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 in Library & information
Studies/Science as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 2 years’ experience of
Experience in the library environment. A valid driver's license (except for
persons with disabilities). Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of Batho Pele
principles, Public Service Regulations, policies, and procedures.
Administration procedures including norms and standards. Basic numeracy.
Organizing and planning. Computer literacy. Basic interpersonal relations.
Problem solving. Maintaining discipline.
DUTIES : Market and promote library services. Classify and catalogue library material.
Render reference and information services. Develop a new established library.
Render professional library and information service to the community. Assist
with identifying maintenance needs for the building, equipment, library assets
and material. Manage day to day library operations. Responsible for the
marketing and advocacy of library services and within the library. Facilitate
establishment and full participation of book clubs. Perform necessary library
administrative tasks. Conduct library orientation to users regarding library
usage and retrieval of information. Provide information service to library users.
Monitor library user's statistics and compile reports as required. Assist the
District Librarian to conduct asset verification. Liaise with stakeholders and
district library on library matters. Compile monthly, quarterly, and annual
reports. Supervise library staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Ms Mothupi PP and Mr Mnisi NF Tel No: (015) 284
4143 / 4109 / 4032 / 4186
POST 38/151 : LIBRARIAN CPU REF NO: DSAC 2025/11
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 in Library & information
Studies/Science as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 2 years’ experience of
Experience in the library environment. A valid driver's license (except for
persons with disabilities). Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of Batho Pele
principles, Public Service Regulations, policies, and procedures.
Administration procedures including norms and standards. Basic numeracy.
Organizing and planning. Computer literacy. Basic interpersonal relations.
Problem solving. Maintaining discipline.
DUTIES : Formulate the bibliographic data, consult the Dewey Decimal classification
schedules (DDC23). Check the existence of a library material on the SLIMS
database, analyse and determine the type, audience, language and subject
content and use Sears List of Subject Headings to determine the subject
headings. Scan ISBN or type in the CLOI number of an item to retrieve its
bibliographic record on Resource Monitoring for Remote Application
(REMORA), verify information, edit the necessary fields, i.e. Price, quantity, etc
and print the catalogue cards. Search the library material by International
Standard Book Number (ISBN), author and title, check the existence of a
record on the database, catalogue if unavailable, print catalogue cards if
already catalogues and confirm information on the cards and confirm the
information on the cards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Ms Mothupi PP and Mr Mnisi NF Tel No: (015) 284
4143 / 4109 / 4032 / 4186
POST 38/152 : CULTURAL OFFICER REF NO: DSAC 2025/12
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification level 06 in Arts and Cultural Studies as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 2 years’ experience in Arts and Culture. A
valid Driver’s License (except for persons with disabilities). Knowledge And
Skills: Sound and in-depth knowledge of All relevant Cultural and Creative
prescripts and all relevant legislative frameworks that govern the Public
Service. Project Management. computer skills. Planning and organising.
Financial Management. Communication skills. Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Identify, develop and promote (emerging) artists and crafters as well as
implementing projects related to performing and visual arts and craft: Facilitate
transformation of performing and visual arts to impact on socio-economic
development, promote and develop community/public based arts, culture and
heritage programmes, establish and maintain partnerships with relevant
113
stakeholders, manage the implementation of youth development programmes
and projects, promote socio-cultural development of vulnerable groups, identify
and support the development of high impact job creation areas and skills
development in arts, culture and heritage sector, promote the culture of reading
and writing, SA craft, music sector and technical service industries and
multimedia (audio-visual, design, visual arts) sector. Create awareness
programmes for craft, performing and visual arts: Design and conduct
awareness campaigns to promote arts and culture programmes, liaise with all
relevant stakeholders, promote usage of Art Centres and integrated crafts
hubs, promote and develop community/public based arts and culture
programmes. Conduct needs analysis and provides professional advice on
performing, visual arts and crafts: Conduct research on arts and culture
programmes, coordinate the establishment and provide support to arts and
culture structures, implement policies and strategies for art, culture and
heritage sector, provide advice to all relevant stakeholders on arts and culture
matters. Render administrative functions in relation to programmes that are
implemented: Monitor and evaluate funded projects and programmes, develop
and maintain database of arts, culture and heritage institutions, provide
administrative and technical support regarding arts and culture programmes
and monitoring the implementation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Ms Mothupi PP and Mr Mnisi NF Tel No: (015) 284
4143 / 4109 / 4032 / 4186
POST 38/153 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: DSAC 2025/13
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification level 06 in Office Management / Management
Assistant as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 2 years’ experience as a
Personal Assistant. A valid Driver’s License (except for persons with
disabilities). Knowledge And Skills: Word processing, managing files and
records, obtaining and disseminating Information, managing requests or
enquiries and providing customer and personal services. Good Telephone
etiquette, computer literacy, sound organising skills, good people skills, basic
Interpersonal relationship, communication skills, organising skill and client
Liaison / Customer care.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial/ receptionist support service to the chief director: Handling
phone calls, in addition to the call for the Chief Financial Officer, Discretion is
required to decide to whom the calls should be forwarded. In the process the
job incumbent should finalize some enquiries, performs advanced typing work,
operates and ensures that office equipment, e.g. Fax machines and
photocopies are in good working order, records the engagements of the Chief
Financial Officer, utilizes discretion to decide whether to accept/ decline or refer
other employees request for meetings, based on the assessed importance and
urgency of the matter, co-ordinates with and sensitises/ Advises the Chief
Director regarding engagements and compiles realistic schedules of
appointment. Render administrative support services: Process all invoices that
emanates from the activities of the Chief Financial Officer’s work, records
minutes of the meetings of the Chief Financial Officer where required, drafts
routine correspondences and reports, filing of documents for the Chief
Financial Officer, administers matters such as leave registers and telephone
accounts, receive records and distributes all incoming and outgoing
documents, handles the procurement of standard items like stationery,
refreshments, etc, collect all relevant documents to assist the Chief Financial
Officer to prepare for meetings. Remains up to date with prescripts/ policies
and procedures applicable to his work terrain to ensure efficient and effective
support: study the relevant Public Service and Departmental prescripts/
policies and other documents to ensure that the application thereof is
understood properly and remains abreast with the procedures and processes
that apply in the office of the Chief Financial Officer.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Ms Mothupi PP and Mr Mnisi NF Tel No: (015) 284
4143 / 4109 / 4032 / 4186
POST 38/154 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: DSAC 2025/14
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
114
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification level 06 in Acquisition/ Logistic Management /
Public Administration / Management / Supply Chain Management / Purchasing
as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 2 years’ experience in Acquisition. A
valid Driver’s License (except for persons with disabilities). Knowledge And
Skills: Knowledge of PFMA, treasury regulations, prescripts and PPPFA,
demand management skills, successful completion of SCM course, knowledge
of bas and LOGIS systems, communication skills (verbal and written),
Computer literacy (MS word, excel, power point), Project planning and report
writing. Problem solving skills. Good interpersonal relationship. Ability to work
under pressure, skills, information management skills, good organisational
skills, negotiation skills, people management skills and financial management
skills
DUTIES : Invitation of price quotations: Facilitate procurement of goods and services,
acquire quotations from suppliers on a daily basis, enforce best practice of
acquisition of goods and services through adherence to procurement
strategies and procedures. Invitation of bid price quotations: Implement
policies, guideline, systems and practice in line with national and provincial
ensure that goods and services are procured economically and efficiently,
assists in the identification and development of internal procurement policies
and systems (procurement procedures), and capturing of orders on LOGIS:
Orders captured on LOGIS System. Preparations of payment invoices:
Register service provider on payment book, submit to finance, give them
orders. Handling of queries: Ensure maximum complains are attended to and
from internal clients (end –users) and external clients service providers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Ms Mothupi PP and Mr Mnisi NF Tel No: (015) 284
4143 / 4109 / 4032 / 4186
POST 38/155 : LIBRARIAN (X6 POSTS)
(For a period of one (1) Year Contract)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07), plus 37 % of lieu of benefit
CENTRE : Mulamula, Vleivontein, Tshaulu (Vhembe District), Mampane, Botshabelo and
Moopetetse (Sekhukhune District)
Mulamula Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/15
Vleifontein Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/16
Tshaulu Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/17
Mampane Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/18
Botshabelo Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/19
Moopetse Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/20
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 in Library & information
Studies/Science as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 2 years’ experience of
Experience in the library environment. A valid driver's license (except for
persons with disabilities). Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of Batho Pele
principles, Public Service Regulations, policies, and procedures.
Administration procedures including norms and standards. Basic numeracy.
Organizing and planning. Computer literacy. Basic interpersonal relations.
Problem solving. Maintaining discipline.
DUTIES : Market and promote library services. Classify and catalogue library material.
Render reference and information services. Develop a new established library.
Render professional library and information service to the community. Assist
with identifying maintenance needs for the building, equipment, library assets
and material. Manage day to day library operations. Responsible for the
marketing and advocacy of library services and within the library. Facilitate
establishment and full participation of book clubs. Perform necessary library
administrative tasks. Conduct library orientation to users regarding library
usage and retrieval of information. Provide information service to library users.
Monitor library user's statistics and compile reports as required. Assist the
District Librarian to conduct asset verification. Liaise with stakeholders and
district library on library matters. Compile monthly, quarterly, and annual
reports. Supervise library staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Ms Mothupi PP and Mr Mnisi NF Tel No: (015) 284
4143 / 4109 / 4032 / 4186
POST 38/156 : RECORDS CLERK REF NO: DSAC 2025/21
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
115
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4/ Grade 12 certificates from a recognized institution of Basic
Education. An undergraduate qualification NQF 6 in Records Management /
Archives or Human Resource Management or Public Management / Admin as
recognised by SAQA will be an added advantage. Knowledge And Skills:
Knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data,
operate computer. Working knowledge and understanding of legislative
framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of storage and retrieval
procedures. Computer operating skills. Planning and organization. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Computer operating skills.
DUTIES : Provide HR registry services: Attend to client, handle telephonic and other
enquiries received, receive and register completed files from HR staff. Handle
incoming and outgoing records: Process incoming human resource records,
retrieve files from storage, issuance of documents and register the return of the
record to maintain a clear audit trail, handle transfers of personnel files and
provide support to the directorate during audit (maintenance and accessibility
of HR records). Render an effective filing and record management service:
Maintain electronic and physical personnel records, opening and close files
according to record classification system, filing/storage, tracing
(electronically/manually) and retrieval of human resource documents and files
and complete index cards for all files. Process documents for archiving and/
disposal: Electronic scanning of files, sort and package files for archives and
distribution, compile list of documents to be archived and submit to the
supervisor and keep records for archived documents.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Ms Mothupi PP and Mr Mnisi NF Tel No: (015) 284
4143 / 4109 / 4032 / 4186
POST 38/157 : LIBRARY ASSISTANT (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Tzaneen (Mopani District), Lephalale (Waterberg District) and Masisi (Vhembe
District):
Tzaneen Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/22
Tzaneen District Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/23
Lephalale Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/24
Masisi Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/25
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4/ Grade 12 certificate from a recognized institution of Basic
Education. An undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 in Library and
Information Studies/Library and Information Science as recognised by SAQA
will be an added advantage. A valid driver’s license (except for persons with
disabilities). Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge and understanding of
administration procedures relating to library environment including norms and
standards. Must be computer and internet literate. Planning and organising
skills, Basic interpersonal relationship and problem-solving skills. Ability to
work under pressure.
DUTIES : Provision of clerical support services within the library. Provide support
services for library administration. Computerisation of library material. Provide
support services for awareness and collection development. Assist with
processing library materials to be shelve ready. Assist the librarian in day-to-
day management and operation of the library. Sorting, shelving and shelve
reading of library materials according to their categorisation. Assist with
executing library assets for asset management purposes. Assist library users
when looking for reading, research materials and computer related purposes.
Assist library users when looking for reding, research materials and computer
related information. Assist with counter, phone, and email enquiries from library
users. Checking books in and out at the from desk. Register new customers
and maintaining and updating customer profiles.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Ms Mothupi PP and Mr Mnisi NF Tel No: (015) 284
4143 / 4109 / 4032 / 4186
POST 38/158 : LIBRARY ASSISTANT (X3 POSTS)
Re-advertisement, applicants who applied before are encouraged to apply
again.
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Rixile, Gravellote and Alldays:
Rixile Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/26
Gravellote Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/27
116
Alldays Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/28
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4/ Grade 12 certificate from a recognized institution of Basic
Education. An undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 in Library and
Information Studies/Library and Information Science as recognised by SAQA
will be an added advantage. A valid driver’s license (except for persons with
disabilities). Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge and understanding of
administration procedures relating to library environment including norms and
standards. Must be computer and internet literate. Planning and organising
skills, Basic interpersonal relationship and problem-solving skills. Ability to
work under pressure.
DUTIES : Provision of clerical support services within the library. Provide support
services for library administration. Computerisation of library material. Provide
support services for awareness and collection development. Assist with
processing library materials to be shelve ready. Assist the librarian in day-to-
day management and operation of the library. Sorting, shelving and shelve
reading of library materials according to their categorisation. Assist with
executing library assets for asset management purposes. Assist library users
when looking for reading, research materials and computer related purposes.
Assist library users when looking for reding, research materials and computer
related information. Assist with counter, phone, and email enquiries from library
users. Checking books in and out at the from desk. Register new customers
and maintaining and updating customer profiles.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Ms Mothupi PP and Mr Mnisi NF Tel No: (015) 284
4143 / 4109 / 4032 / 4186
POST 38/159 LIBRARY ASSISTANT (X12 POSTS)
(One (1) Year Contract)
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04), plus 37% of lieu benefit
CENTRE : Mulamula, Vleivontein, Tshaulu (Vhembe District), Mampane, Botshabelo and
Moopetetse (Sekhukhune District):
Mulamula Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/29 (X2 Posts)
Vleifontein Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/30 (X2 Posts)
Tshaulu Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/31 (X2 Posts)
Mampane Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/32 (X2 Posts)
Botshabelo Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/33 (X2 Posts)
Moopetse Library Ref No: DSAC 2025/34 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4/ Grade 12 certificate from a recognized institution of Basic
Education. An undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 in Library and
Information Studies/Library and Information Science as recognised by SAQA
will be an added advantage. A valid driver’s license (except for persons with
disabilities). Skills And Knowledge: Knowledge and understanding of
administration procedures relating to library environment including norms and
standards. Must be computer and internet literate. Planning and organising
skills, Basic interpersonal relationship and problem-solving skills. Ability to
work under pressure.
DUTIES : Provision of clerical support services within the library. Provide support
services for library administration. Computerisation of library material. Provide
support services for awareness and collection development. Assist with
processing library materials to be shelve ready. Assist the librarian in day-to-
day management and operation of the library. Sorting, shelving and shelve
reading of library materials according to their categorisation. Assist with
executing library assets for asset management purposes. Assist library users
when looking for reading, research materials and computer related purposes.
Assist library users when looking for reding, research materials and computer
related information. Assist with counter, phone, and email enquiries from library
users. Checking books in and out at the from desk. Register new customers
and maintaining and updating customer profiles.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Ms Mothupi PP and Mr Mnisi NF Tel No: (015) 284
4143 / 4109 / 4032 / 4186
POST 38/160 : CLUB COORDINATOR DSAC 2025/35 (X2 POSTS)
For a Period of One (1) Year Contract)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), plus 37% of lieu benefit
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
117
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4/Grade 12 certificate or from a recognized institution of Basic
Education. An undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 in Sport Management /
Administration/ Science as recognised by SAQA will be an added advantage.1
-2 years of experience in Sport environment and administration. A valid driver’s
license (except for persons with disabilities). Skills And Knowledge: Public
Service Acts, Regulations, policies, and other legislative frameworks.
Knowledge of Sport Administration Planning and organising, Computer literacy,
Project planning, Problem solving Communication, Report writing.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to local federations and confederations: Provide
support services to federations, clubs and schools, render support to Provincial
Sport academy and satellite, implement programmes to increase and improve
relation between sport and recreation stakeholders and establish good
governance structures of sport and recreation as dictated by relevant
legislation. Coordinate and integrate stakeholder activities in communities:
Collect, analyse, compile and update data in all sport and recreational
activities, provide administrative support regarding sports and recreation
facilities and infrastructure, administer the system for storage, maintenance,
issues and return of sport and physical recreation equipment. Facilitate
capacity building development plans: Facilitate capacity building activities,
administer coach training in terms of different sporting codes, provide support
for education and training events, promote sports and skills management,
coordinate club development leagues, perform events
management/coordination activities, liaise with hubs, sport federations, sport
councils and academy to increase the number of participants in sports and
recreation activities and implement programmes to increase and improve
relations between sports and recreation stakeholders. Administer league
related to sports programmes: Provide health and fitness activities in
communities, provide support to local and district clubs, encourage all levels of
communities to participate in different codes of sport and recreation activities,
collate club needs, collect club profiles and coordinate club affiliation and
promotion programmes
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Ms Mothupi PP and Mr Mnisi NF Tel No: (015) 284
4143 / 4109 / 4032 / 4186
POST 38/161 : GENERAL WORKER (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Muti Wa Va Tsonga Museum (Mopani District) and Sekhukhune:
Muti Wa Va Tsonga Museum (Mopani District) Ref No: DSAC 2025/36 (X2
Posts)
Sekhukhune District Ref No: DSAC 2025/37
REQUIREMENTS : QF level 1 or 2 (Grade 8 or 9) (AET/ABET level 2 certificate) from a recognized
institution of basic Education. knowledge and skills: Good communication
skills. Be physically fit and in good health and not allergic to grass and able to
work under pressure and different working conditions or environment (outdoor
environment). Knowledge of different buildings, maintenance and cleaning
styles, (i.e. paving maintenance, bush clearing, creation of firebreaks, soil
erosion control, etc.
DUTIES : Perform routine activities on the maintenance of the district. Ensure the
cleaning and maintenance: cutting, collection and use of all raw materials for
the restoration and renovations of the surroundings, etc. Cleaning of structures,
care of the allocated working tools and equipment. Landscaping such as
controlling water streams in the site to avoid soil erosion. Ensure de-bushing
and weed clearing around the premises and the surroundings. Creation and
maintenance of fire breaks around the district and surroundings. Render any
manual labour necessary for effective care and maintenance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Ms Mothupi PP and Mr Mnisi NF Tel No: (015) 284
4143 / 4109 / 4032 / 4186
POST 38/162 : GENERAL WORKER REF NO: DSAC 2025/38
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Mopani District
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (Grade 8 or 9) (AET/ABET level 2 certificate) from a
recognized institution of Basic Education. Knowledge And Skills: Ability to
operate equipments, basic literacy and good communication skills. Knowledge
118
of repetitive work procedures such as cleaning\ equipments /gardening and
Health and Safety measures.
DUTIES : Perform General Duties: Load and off-load furniture, equipment, archivalia and
any other goods to the relevant destination, safe keeping of records and
archivalia. Cleaning inside and outside of the building: clean relevant
workstations and maintenance of the external areas of the archive building:
Distribute and collect documents, ensure proper movements of documents:
Ensure proper movements of documents and record in the register. Operate
elementary machines: Vacuums and photocopier.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Ms Mothupi PP and Mr Mnisi NF Tel No: (015) 284
4143 / 4109 / 4032 / 4186
119
ANNEXURE U
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
It is the strategic intent of the Department to promote employment equity in terms of race, gender and
disability through the filling of these posts with candidates whose transfer, promotion or appointment
will promote equitable representativity in line with the numeric targets as contained in the departmental
Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : Fully completed and signed Z83 employment application form, quoting
reference number should be addressed to the Head: Economic Development
and Tourism. Applications can be hand delivered to Nokuthula Simelane
Building, 1st Floor, No 7 Government Boulevard, Riverside Park, Extension 02
Mbombela 1201 or alternatively applications emailed to the respective email
address provided for each post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025 at 16h00
NOTE : It is compulsory to fill all fields on the New Amended Z83 Form (No.81/971431)
as prescribed with effect from 01 January 2021, which must be signed,
initialled and dated. The form is obtainable at any National or Provincial
Department(s), www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applicants must
indicate the Post, Reference Number on the Z83 Form application. The new
Z83 Form must be accompanied by a recent updated curriculum vitae with full
personal details, experience, including three (3) names and contact numbers
of referees and it is the applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign
qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such evaluation report
(only when shortlisted). The question related to conditions that prevent re-
appointment under Part F must be answered by applicants who were
previously appointed in the public service. Applications received after closing
date will, as a rule not be accepted. Only shortlisted candidates for the post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the
interviews. It will be expected of candidate(s) to be available for interview
process on a date, time and place as determined by the Department.
Shortlisted candidate(s) will be required to undergo personal suitability checks,
which include criminal records, citizenship, financial credits/assets,
qualifications verification and previous employment background/reference
checks will be verified. Candidates will be subject to security screening and
vetting. Applicants must disclose if she/he is not a Director/Shareholder of a
company or conducting any business with Organ of State and whether is
performing any additional remunerative work outside his/her normal duties.
The successful candidate will enter into an Annual Performance Agreement,
and also annually disclose his/her financial interest. Candidates requiring
additional information regarding advertised post must direct their enquiries to
the relevant person indicated. Communication and correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within
three (3) months after the closing date, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. The successful candidate will be appointed subject to positive
results of a pre-employment screening process which includes criminal records
and verification of educational qualification certificates. Candidates requiring
additional information regarding advertised post must direct their enquiries to
the relevant person indicated. Communication and correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within
three (3) months after the closing date, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to make appointment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 38/163 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TOURISM REF NO: DEDT 2025/26/08
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Head Office: Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate SAQA recognized undergraduate NQF level seven (7) tertiary
qualification in Tourism Development/Tourism Management/Tourism
Marketing. A minimum (3) years of functional work experience in tourism
environment and should be at an entry/junior managerial level (Assistant
Director Level or equivalent). Experience in the MSME’s environment.
Understanding of project management and financial management. Ability to
develop and apply policies. Ability to work under pressure and long hours.
120
Good knowledge of government processes and relevant legislation. Good
interpersonal and presentation skills. Good communication skills (written &
spoken). Good computer literacy and use of standard packages. Ability to work
under pressure. Ability to work individually and in a team. Generic knowledge
of the South African economic policies, priority economic sectors in
Mpumalanga and regulated industries. Knowledge and understanding of the
Public Service laws, government processes, regulations and procedures.
Competencies: The preferable candidate must display these competencies at
competent levels: Strategic Capability, Leadership, Programme and Project
Management, Financial Management, Change Management, Knowledge
Management, Service Delivery Innovation, Problem Solving and Analysis,
People Management and Empowerment, Client Orientation and Customer
Focus and Communication, Honesty and Integrity. Broad knowledge of
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks
Agency Act of 2005, The White Paper on Development and Promotion of
Tourism in South Africa, Mpumalanga Tourism Development Strategy, National
Tourism Sector Strategy, Provincial Spatial Economic Development Strategy,
Domestic Tourism Growth Strategy, National Strategy on Heritage and Cultural
Tourism, Service Delivery (Batho Pele principles), Broad Based Empowerment
Act, and other relevant Provincial and National strategies. Knowledge and
understanding of the regulatory framework for the Public Service e.g. Public
Service Act; Provincial Finance Management Act (PFMA), Public Service
Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Skills
Development Act, Strategic plan, Occupational Health and Safety Act, HR
Matters and relevant statutory provisions and knowledge of Public Service
reporting procedures and work environment. Ability to communicate at all
levels: Provincial and National Departments, Senior Management, Private
Sector Organizations, Small Businesses and General Public. An ability to adapt
to a dynamic work environment. Basic knowledge on Financial Administration
and Budgeting, Government priorities and mandates, Management Principles
and legislative processes. The candidates should demonstrate excellent skills
in: Analytical and innovation thinking, research and policy analysis skills,
Facilitation and Co-ordination skills, Community development facilitation skills,
Excellent Communication and interpersonal skills, Internal/external
stakeholder coordination and stakeholder relations, Ability to interpret and
apply policies, Presentation skills, Negotiation skills, Report writing skills, Time
management, Administrative management, Financial Management, Project.
DUTIES : Initiate and facilitate capacity-building programmes of the tourism sector
through business processes, information and training. Support and participate
in all relevant provincial and national structures. Develop strategies and
programmes in line with the national and provincial plans. Establish and
support tourism structures, give guidance to tourism structures, stakeholders
and municipalities. Facilitate and coordinate the implementation of the
Provincial Tourism Master plan, and engage all relevant stakeholders in the
Tourism Sector. Identify and develop Tourism Planning Frameworks to ensure
tourism development within the province in line with national imperatives.
Manage the human resources and financial resources within the Sub-
directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SJ Xaba Tel No: (013) 766 4164
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: recruitmentdedt2@mpg.gov.za
POST 38/164 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR IN THE OFFICE OF THE HEAD: ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM REF NO: DEDT/2025/26/15
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate SAQA recognized NQF level 6 tertiary qualification in Office
Management/ Administration / Business Administration/Public Administration
with three (03) years relevant work experience in the office management
environment. Knowledge of structure and functioning of the Department,
Departmental standards and regulations, Parliamentary protocol processes,
linkages with government clusters and Secretariat responsibilities. Language
proficiency and ability to communicate at all levels, write accurate minutes,
report writing, financial administration, organizing and planning, computer
literacy, project management, time management, problem solving skills,
decision making skills. Personal Attributes: Analytical thinking, innovative,
creative, resourceful, ability to work under stressful situations, ability to
121
communicate at all levels, able to establish and maintain personal networks,
trustworthy, assertive, ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial and administrative support to all technical and structured
committees within the Department. Manage logistical arrangements of
meetings, minutes and ensure quality control on developed, agendas, minutes
and related documentation; ensure follow-up and assist with the
implementation on decisions taken during meeting. Ensure the liaison with
internal and external stakeholders in relation to scheduled meetings, ensure
management of proper archiving system regarding documentation for
meetings, ensure a proper coordination of dates for meetings and incorporate
into the Departmental Year Planner. Maintain professional standards in relation
to services rendered and resource requirements. Monitor the financial
management of the Office and co-ordinate the budget, where necessary make
recommendations regarding the utilisation thereof; manage the resource
requirements of the Office. Manage, sort, analyse and schedule the information
flow thereof through the Office. Manage the security profile of the Office. Co-
ordinate and administrate logistical arrangements: travel and accommodation
during meetings, co-ordinate and manage administrative aspects relevant to
the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LP Mabaso Tel No: (013) 766 4424
APPLICATIONS : Email application to: recruitmentdedt3@mpg.gov.za
122
ANNEXURE V
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTH WEST
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND ROADS
This Department is an Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Employer. It is our intention to promote
representatively (race, gender and disability) e.g. White, Indian, Coloured and African, in terms of equity
plan preference will be given to Disabilities, Youth, Females in the Department through the filling of
posts. People with disability are encouraged to apply. The candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representatively will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Bojanala District: All Posting Applications must be submitted online or hand
delivered to: Registry Office, Old Industrial Site, Waterfall Avenue, Rustenburg,
0300. The District Manager, Department of Public Works and Roads, Private
Bag X82063, Rustenburg, 0300. Please Note: On the Subject Line of your E-
mail, Indicate the Correct Job Title and the Reference number of the post. All
attachments for online submission must include the Z83 Form and Updated
Curriculum Vitae only be in one PDF document, Use the correct E-mail per
post. Failure to do so, your application will be disqualified. For Attention: The
HRM Manager: Ms. P.J Selekolo
Head Office: All Applications must be submitted online, Or Hand delivered to
Registry Office no. 133, Ground Floor, East Wing - Old Parliament Building
Complex, Modiri Molema Road, Mmabatho, or addressed to: Human Resource
Manager, Public Works and Roads, Private Bag x2080, Mmabatho, 2735.
Please Note: On the Subject Line of your E-mail, Indicate the Correct Job Title
and the Reference number of the post. All attachments for online submission
must include the Z83 Form and Updated Curriculum Vitae only be in one PDF
document, Use the correct E-mail per post. Failure to do so, your application
will be disqualified. For Attention: HRM Recruitment Unit - Mr. M.E Khauoe.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025 (posted/handed, e-mailed applications must have reached
the Department by 16h30 pm Walk-in and 00h00 Mid-night online will, as a rule
not be accepted).
NOTE : Compliance: It is compulsory to fill all fields on the New Amended Z83 Form
(81/971431) as prescribed with effect 01 January 2021, is obtainable from any
Public Service, Departments or on the DPSA Website, www.dpsa.gov.za. Part
A must be fully completed by the applicant’s indicate correct advertised Post
name and Reference number, Centre, Notice period on the z83 form. Z83 form
part of declaration must be signed, dated and initialled only on the first page.
The Z83 Form must be accompanied by a recently updated/ detailed
Curriculum Vitae and include three (3) names contactable referees. The
personal details and the subjects of relevant qualification, should be mentioned
on the CV, also clearly indicating current positions held in sequence dates.
Outline or provide the sufficient information about related experience and key
responsibilities with respective dates. Part B, C and D must be fully completed,
however B, C, E on the space that indicate date of birth, work permit, in the
event of employment will immediately relinquish such business, preferred
language, current study, may be left blank if not relevant to you. Part E, F and
G do not need to be completed if the CV has provided the updated information.
Part F is compulsory to be completed for applicants seeking re- employment
into Public Service. Please note: It is a responsibility of a Person in possession
of a foreign qualification to furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate
from South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Only
shortlisted candidate(s) for post will be required to submit certified documents
on or before the day of the interview. NB: Senior Management Pre-entry
Programme Certificate: No SMS applicant shall be recommended for
appointment without producing a Certificate of completion (Nyukela) as a
mandatory requirement is obtainable via this link: https://www.thensg.gov.za,
offered by the National School of Government. Failure to submit the requested
information will result in your application not being considered. The e-mailed
applications will be accepted. Applications received after the closing date will,
as a rule not be accepted. It will be expected of candidates to be available for
interview process on a date, time and place as determined by the Department.
Applicant’s previous information as background/reference checks will be
verified through contactable referees. Shortlisted candidate(s) will be required
to undergo personnel suitability checks and will be subjected to security
screening which include, criminal records, citizenship, financial credits, asset
records, qualifications verification and vetting. The Department reserves the
right not to make any appointments to the advertised posts. The successful
123
candidate will enter into an annual performance agreement, and annually
disclose his/her financial interest. NB: Salary Level 1-12, all shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to practical exercise and integrity assessment test.
All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical
competency exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job.
Recommend candidate(s) will be required to attend generic managerial
competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools.
Applicant requiring additional information regarding advertised post must direct
their enquiries to the relevant person indicated. NB: Communication and
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not
receive any response from us within three months after closing date, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful.
OTHER POSTS
POST 38/165 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGIST GRADE A-
CIVIL/STRUCTURAL REF NO: H/O 69/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R921 900 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng (Integrated Infrastructure Planning)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus Bachelor of Technology in
Engineering (B Tech) or relevant qualification. Compulsory registration with
ECSA as an Engineering Technologist. Six years post qualification Engineering
Technologist experience required. A Valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Project
management. Technical design and analysis knowledge. Research and
development. Computer aided engineering applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance Technical report writing. Networking. Professional judgment. Skills:
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity.
Self-management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
Computer skills. Planning and organizing. People Management.
DUTIES : Plan technologist support to Engineers and associate Professionals in the field.
Ensure the adherence and promotion of safety standards in line with statutory
and regulatory requirements. Solve broadly, defined technological challenges
though application of proven techniques and procedures. Develop, maintain
and manage current technologies. Evaluate and monitor existing technical
manuals, standard manuals, standard drawings and procedures to incorporate
new technology. Ensure quality assurance of technical designs with
specification and make recommendations for approval by the relevant
authority. Identify and optimize technical solutions by applying engineering
principles. Provide inputs into the budgeting process. Compile and submit
reports as required. Provide and consolidate inputs to the technological/
engineering operational plan. Ensure the development, implementation and
maintenance database. Manage and supervise technological and related
personnel and assets. Continuous professional development to keep up with
the new technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on
engineering technology to improve expertise. To liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on engineering related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M. Sepotokele/Mr. T. Chanda Tel No: (018) 388 4199/4516
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: DPWRHORecruit4@nwpg.gov.za
POST 38/166 : ARCHITECT PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO: H/O 70/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R761 157 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng (Integrated Infrastructure Planning)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus National Diploma/ Bachelor’s
degree in Architecture or relevant qualification. Experience: Three years post
qualification architectural experience required. A valid driver`s license.
Compulsory registration with SACAP as professional Architect. Knowledge:
Programme and project management. Architectural design and analysis
knowledge. Computer aided engineering applications. Research and
development. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing.
Creating high performance culture. Networking. Professional Judgement.
Skills: Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Team leadership.
Creativity. Change management. Financial Management. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Communication. Computer Literacy. Planning and organizing.
People Management. Analytical skills. Planning and organizing Conflict
Management and Innovation.
124
DUTIES : Perform architectural activities on state owned or leased buildings, structures
or facilities: Co-ordinate professional teams on all aspects regarding
architecture. Ensure adherence and compliance to legal, safety and health
requirements. Provide architectural advice and technical support in the
evaluation of solutions. Ensure the adoption of technical and quality strategies.
Develop architectural related policies, methods and practices. Provide solution
on non-compliance and failure of designs. Review plans, drawings,
specifications and estimates accomplished by building designers and/or sub-
professional personnel and Ensure adherence to the requirements of
professional registration. Human capital development. Mentor and train
candidate architects and related technical and administrative personnel to
promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound architectural
principles and code of practice. Supervise architectural work and process.
Administer Performance management and development. Ensure proper
budget planning. Manage resources, prepare and consolidate inputs for the
facilitation of resource utilization. Ensure adherence to regulations and
procedures for procurement SCM and Human resource administration. Monitor
and control expenditure. Report on expenditure and service delivery. Research
and development. Continuous professional development to keep up new
technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on architecture to
improve expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on architectural related
matters. Supervise personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. P. Buzuzi Tel No: (018) 388 3818
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: DPWRHORecruit4@nwpg.gov.za
POST 38/167 : QUANTITY SURVEYOR PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO: H/O 71/2025 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R761 157 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng (Construction Project Management)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus an appropriate Degree in
Quantity Survey or relevant qualification. Compulsory registration with
SACQSP as a professional Quantity Surveyor. Three years Quantity Survey
experience required. A Valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Programme and
project management. Quantity Survey principles and methodologies. Research
and development. Computer-aided engineering applications. Knowledge of
legal compliance. Technical report writing. Technical consulting. Creating high
performance culture. Networking. Professional judgment. Knowledge of Public
Service Regulations. Skills: Decision making. Team leadership. Analytical
skills. Creativity. Self-management. Financial management. Customer focus
and responsiveness. Effective communication skills (Verbal and written).
Computer literacy. Planning and organizing. Conflict management. Problem
solving and analysis. People management. Change management. Innovation.
Presentation skills. Report writing skills. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Perform quantity survey activities on buildings, structures or facilities. Co-
ordinate professional teams on all aspects regarding quantity survey. Ensure
adherence to quantity determination standards. Provide quantity survey advice
and technical support in the evaluation of costs. Ensure the adoption of
technical and quality strategies. Develop quantity survey related policies,
methods and practices. Provide solutions on non-compliance on quantity
determination. Review the cost determinations of projects and estimates
accomplished by building designers and/or sub-professional personnel.
Ensure adherence to the requirements of professional registration. Mentor,
train and develop candidate quantity survey and related technical and
administrative personnel to promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence
to sound architectural principles and code of practice. Supervise quantity
survey work and processes. Administer performance management and
development. Manage resources, prepare and consolidate inputs for the
facilitation of resource utilisation. Ensure adherence to regulations and
procedures for procurement SCM and personnel human resource
administration. Monitor and control expenditure. Report on expenditure and
service delivery. Continuous professional development according to council
guidelines. Research/literature studies on quantity survey to improve expertise.
Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on quantity survey-related matters.
Supervise personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. E. Mati Tel No: (018) 388 4496
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: DPWRHORecruit4@nwpg.gov.za
125
POST 38/168 : CONTROL WORKS INSPECTOR REF NO: BOJ 07/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : District Office – Electrical/Mechanical (Bojanala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus an appropriate National Diploma
(T/N/S Streams) or N 3 and passed trade test in Electrical/Mechanical.
Experience: More than 6 year’s appropriate experience. Registration as an
Engineering Technician. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Knowledge of the
Public Service Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of the Procurement Policy
& Procedures. In depth knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act,
Treasury Regulations, Financial Delegations, OHSA, National Building
Regulations & Risk Management. Knowledge of Project Management,
Planning & Organising, People Management and Conflict Resolution. Skills:
Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint). Numeracy skills.
Communication skills (verbal and written). Interpersonal relations. Analytical
and problem solving abilities. Negotiation and conflict resolution skills. Creative
and innovative. Report writing skills. Presentation skills. Ability to work
independently. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to interact with
stakeholders on various levels.
DUTIES : Ensure that inspectorate services are provided through the investigation of
customer complaints, identification of new services, needs and requirements
of new work and repairs and the management of the inspectorate component
in line with relevant legislation, regulations and standards. Manage the process
for the identification of needs, new services and requirements for minor new
and repairs to existing work by ensuring work by ensuring that customer
complaints are investigated and followed-up. Allocate tasks & projects in
relation to the maintenance of existing and new works. Monitor the progress &
expenditure on current maintenance and minor new works projects. Attend
monthly project progress meetings with relevant stakeholders. Provide reports,
estimates, recommend and monitor expenditure and payments. Ensure
accuracy of tender documents, specifications and bills of quantities. Ensure
effective contract administration through the resolution of disputes. Promote
and assist SMMEs, BBBEE, PPPs and the initiates of the EPWP. Draw up
quotation documents and compile specifications, bills of quantities and bid
documents. Put systems and procedures in place to ensure contractors &
consultants adhere to legislations, regulations and procedures. Verify invoices
& certifies progress of payments. Check and process variation orders and
requests for extension of deadlines. Ensure quality control, effective and
efficient workflow of work done by Inspectors and report all work allocated.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. G.S Matau at 087 086 6131
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: dpwrbojanalarecruit@nwpg.gov.za
POST 38/169 : CONTROL WORKS INSPECTOR REF NO: BOJ 08/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Moretele Service Point (Bojanala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus an appropriate National Diploma
(T/N/S Streams) or N 3 and passed trade test in the building environment.
Experience: More than 6 year’s appropriate experience. Registration as an
Engineering Technician. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Knowledge of the
Public Service Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of the Procurement Policy
& Procedures. In depth knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act,
Treasury Regulations, Financial Delegations, OHSA, National Building
Regulations & Risk Management. Knowledge of Project Management,
Planning & Organising, People Management and Conflict Resolution. Skills:
Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint). Numeracy skills.
Communication skills (verbal and written). Interpersonal relations. Analytical
and problem-solving abilities. Negotiation and conflict resolution skills. Creative
and innovative. Report writing skills. Presentation skills. Ability to work
independently. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to interact with
stakeholders on various levels.
DUTIES : Ensure that inspectorate services are provided through the investigation of
customer complaints, identification of new services, needs and requirements
of new work and repairs and the management of the inspectorate component
in line with relevant legislation, regulations and standards. Manage the process
for the identification of needs, new services and requirements for minor new
126
and repairs to existing work by ensuring work by ensuring that customer
complaints are investigated and followed up. Allocate tasks & projects in
relation to the maintenance of existing and new works. Monitor the progress &
expenditure on current maintenance and minor new works projects. Attend
monthly project progress meetings with relevant stakeholders. Provide reports,
estimates, recommend and monitor expenditure and payments. Ensure
accuracy of tender documents, specifications and bills of quantities. Ensure
effective contract administration through the resolution of disputes. Promote
and assist SMMEs, BBBEE, PPPs and the initiates of the EPWP. Draw up
quotation documents and compile specifications, bills of quantities and bid
documents. Put systems and procedures in place to ensure contractors &
consultants adhere to legislations, regulations and procedures. Verify invoices
& certifies progress of payments. Check and process variation orders and
requests for extension of deadlines. Ensure quality control, effective and
efficient workflow of work done by Inspectors and report all work allocated.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. G.S Matau at 087 086 6131
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: dpwrbojanalarecruit@nwpg.gov.za
POST 38/170 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN GRADE A-
ELECTRICAL/MECHANICAL REF NO: H/O 72/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R551 493 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng (Construction Projects Management)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus National Diploma in Engineering
or relevant qualification. Compulsory registration with ECSA as a Professional
Engineering Technician. Six years post qualification technical experience
required. A Valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Project management. Technical
design and analysis knowledge. Research and development. Computer aided
engineering applications. Knowledge of legal compliance Technical report
writing. Technical consulting. Skills: Problem solving and analysis. Decision
making. Team work. Creativity. Financial Management. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills. Planning and organizing.
People Management.
DUTIES : Manage technical services and support in conjunction with Engineers,
Technologists and associates in field, workshop and technical office activities.
Ensure the promotion of safety in line with statutory and regulatory
requirements. Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard drawings and
procedures to incorporate new technology. Ensure quality assurance of
technical designs with specifications and authorize/make recommendations for
approval by the relevant authority. Provide inputs into the budgeting process.
Compile and submit reports as required. Provide and consolidate inputs to the
technical/engineering operational plan. Ensure the development,
implementation and maintenance databases. Manage, supervise and control
technical and related personnel and assets. Continuous professional
development to keep up with new technologies and procedures.
Research/literature studies on technical engineering technology to improve
expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T. Mabeta Tel No: (018) 388 4618
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: DPWRHORecruit4@nwpg.gov.za
POST 38/171 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN GRADE A-ROAD MAINTENANCE
REF NO: BOJ 09/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R551 493 per annum, (OSD/sl5)
CENTRE : District Office (Bojanala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Grade 12 certificate plus National Diploma in Engineering or
relevant qualification. Compulsory registration with the Engineering Council of
South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineering Technician. Experience: 6
years post qualification technical experience. A valid driver’s license.
Knowledge: Project management. Technical design and analysis knowledge.
Research and development. Computer-aided engineering applications.
Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing. Technical consulting.
Knowledge of Public Service Regulations. General Conditions of Contract.
Knowledge of construction regulations. Skills: Computer Literacy (MS Word,
Excel, Power Point). Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Team
work. Creativity. Financial Management. Customer focus and responsiveness.
Effective communication skills (verbal and written). Planning and organizing.
127
Interpersonal skills. Presentation skills. Report writing skills. Ability to work
under pressure. People management.
DUTIES : Manage technical services and support in conjunction with Engineers,
technologist and associates in the field, workshop, and technical office
activities. Ensure promotion of safety in line with statutory and regulatory
requirements. Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard drawings and
procedures to incorporate new technology. Ensure quality assurance of
technical designs with specifications and authorize/make recommendations for
approval by the relevant authority. Manage district contracts such as reseal
surface roads and road markings. Ensure the development, implementation
and maintenance databases. Assess pavements and prioritize of rehab and
reseal projects. Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies. Research/literature studies on technical engineering technology
to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/ councils on engineering-
related matter. Provide inputs into the budgeting process. Technical/
engineering operational plan. Manage road building material functions
including laboratory services. Provide inputs into budgeting process. Compile
and submit reports as required. Manage, supervise and control technical and
related personnel and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M.M Mthombeni at 087 086 5927
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: dpwrbojanalarecruit@nwpg.gov.za
POST 38/172 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN GRADE A-ROAD NETWORK
MANAGEMENT REF NO: BOJ 10/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R551 493 per annum, (OSD/sl5)
CENTRE : District Office (Bojanala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Qualifications: Grade 12 certificate plus National Diploma in
Engineering or relevant qualification. Compulsory registration with the
Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineering
Technician. Experience: 6 years post qualification technical experience. A valid
driver’s license. Knowledge: Project management. Technical design and
analysis knowledge. Research and development. Computer-aided engineering
applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing.
Technical consulting. Knowledge of Public Service Regulations. General
Conditions of Contract. Knowledge of construction regulations. Skills:
Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel, Power Point). Problem solving and
analysis. Decision making. Team work. Creativity. Financial Management.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Effective communication skills (verbal
and written). Planning and organizing. Interpersonal skills. Presentation skills.
Report writing skills. Ability to work under pressure. People management.
DUTIES : Manage technical services and support in conjunction with Engineers,
technologist and associates in the field, workshop, and technical office
activities. Ensure promotion of safety in line with statutory and regulatory
requirements. Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard drawings and
procedures to incorporate new technology. Ensure quality assurance of
technical designs with specifications and authorize/make recommendations for
approval by the relevant authority. Manage district contracts such as reseal
surface roads and road markings. Ensure the development, implementation
and maintenance databases. Assess pavements and prioritize of rehab and
reseal projects. Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies. Research/literature studies on technical engineering technology
to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/ councils on engineering-
related matter. Provide inputs into the budgeting process. Technical/
engineering operational plan. Manage road building material functions
including laboratory services. Provide inputs into budgeting process. Compile
and submit reports as required. Manage, supervise and control technical and
related personnel and assets.
ENQUIRY : Ms. M.M Mthombeni at 087 086 5927
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: dpwrbojanalarecruit@nwpg.gov.za
POST 38/173 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN GRADE A-CONTRACTS,
PAVEMENT MANAGEMENT, MATERIAL SERVICES REF NO: BOJ 11/2025
(X1 POST)
SALARY : R551 493 per annum, (OSD/sl5)
CENTRE : District Office (Bojanala District)
128
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Grade 12 certificate plus National Diploma in Engineering or
relevant qualification. Compulsory registration with the Engineering Council of
South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineering Technician. Experience: 6
years post qualification technical experience. A valid driver’s license.
Knowledge: Project management. Technical design and analysis knowledge.
Research and development. Computer-aided engineering applications.
Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing. Technical consulting.
Knowledge of Public Service Regulations. General Conditions of Contract.
Knowledge of construction regulations. Skills: Computer Literacy (MS Word,
Excel, Power Point). Problem solving and analysis. Decision making.
Teamwork. Creativity. Financial Management. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Effective communication skills (verbal and written). Planning
and organizing. Interpersonal skills. Presentation skills. Report writing skills.
Ability to work under pressure. People management.
DUTIES : Manage technical services and support in conjunction with Engineers,
technologist and associates in the field, workshop, and technical office
activities. Ensure promotion of safety in line with statutory and regulatory
requirements. Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard drawings and
procedures to incorporate new technology. Ensure quality assurance of
technical designs with specifications and authorize/make recommendations for
approval by the relevant authority. Manage district contracts such as reseal
surface roads and road markings. Ensure the development, implementation
and maintenance databases. Assess pavements and prioritize of rehab and
reseal projects. Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies. Research/literature studies on technical engineering technology
to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/ councils on engineering-
related matter. Provide inputs into the budgeting process. Technical/
engineering operational plan. Manage road building material functions
including laboratory services. Provide inputs into budgeting process. Compile
and submit reports as required. Manage, supervise and control technical and
related personnel and assets.
ENQUIRY : Ms. M.M Mthombeni at 087 086 5927
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: dpwrbojanalarecruit@nwpg.gov.za
POST 38/174 : CHIEF ARTISAN GRADE A – MECHANICAL REF NO: BOJ 12/2025 (X1
POST)
SALARY : R480 261 per annum, (OSD/sl9)
CENTRE : District Office (Bojanala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: A recognized Trade certificate as a Diesel Mechanic. 10 years
post qualification experience as an Artisan/Artisan Foreman. A valid driver’s
license. Experience: Experience on earthmoving equipment will be an added
advantage. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical
design and analysis knowledge. Computer-aided technical applications.
Technical report writing and consulting. Production, process knowledge and
skills. Leadership skills. Ability to plan, organize, control and lead. Customer
focus and responsiveness. Financial Management. Change management.
Communication. Teamwork. Conflict management.
DUTIES : Manage technical services and support in conjunction with
Technicians/Artisans and associates in field, workshop and technical office
activities. Ensure the promotion of safety in line with statutory and regulatory
requirements. Provide inputs into existing technical manuals, standard
drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology and ensure quality
assurance in line with specifications. Manage administrative and related
functions. Provide inputs into the budgeting process. Compile and submit
reports as required. Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical operational
plan. Update databases and manage artisans and related personnel and
assets. Control and monitor expenditure according to budget to ensure efficient
cash flow management. Manage the commercial value add of the discipline-
related activities and services. Manage the development, motivation and
utilization of human resources for the discipline to ensure competent
knowledge base for the continued success of technical services according to
organizational needs and requirements. Manage subordinates key
performance areas by setting and monitoring performance standards and
taking actions to correct deviations to achieve departmental objectives.
Maintain and advice expertise for continuous individual development to keep
up with new technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on
129
technical/ engineering technology to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on technical/engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M.M Mthombeni at 087 086 5927
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: dpwrbojanalarecruit@nwpg.gov.za
POST 38/175 : ROADS SUPERINTENDENT REF NO: BOJ 13/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Rustenburg Roads Service Point (Bojanala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Grade 12 plus National Diploma or equivalent qualification (NQF
level 6) in Civil Engineering or Construction Management. Experience: 6 years’
work experience in roads maintenance/construction environment. A valid
driver’s license. Knowledge: Knowledge and understanding of record keeping
and documents management, Public Service Act, Cat B, PFMA, OHS materials
standards, Roads and bridges specifications and other HR related matters.
Skills: Computer literacy with applications of (MS Microsoft Suite, Power Point,
Access and Excel). Planning and Organising. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Interpersonal Relations. Flexibility. Teamwork. Accuracy.
Aptitude of figures.
DUTIES : Monitor the maintenance and repair of road surfaced such as resurfacing
interval, culvert/bridge replacement, line painting, and replacement of signs,
grade and resurface gravel on loose top roads. Develop maintenance
schedules for assets (roads, plant, equipment etc.). Plan and prepare a weekly
and monthly site programme. Manage contracted services, project
management and final inspection for capital projects. Provide technical advice
on claims against the department. Monitor and check the quality of work done
by contractors/maintenance team. Manage and develop staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M.M Mthombeni at 087 086 5927
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: dpwrbojanalarecruit@nwpg.gov.za
POST 38/176 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN-ROADS REGRAVELLING REF NO: BOJ
14/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R391 671 per annum, (OSD/sl2)
CENTRE : District Office (Bojanala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Senior Certificate (Grade 12) plus a National Diploma in
Engineering or relevant qualification. Experience: 3 years post qualification
technical experience. A valid driver’s license. A compulsory registration with
ECSA as a Professional Engineering Technician. Knowledge: All roads-related
acts, ordinances, policies, standards and norms. Project management,
technical design and analysis knowledge, advertising on Roads and Ribbon
Development Act, 1940. Contract management. Public Service Act. Public
Service Regulations. Labour Relations Act. Public Finance Management Act.
Construction Manual. Road Sign. Roads Act. Road Traffic Act. Occupational
Health and Safety Act. Research and development. Computer-aided
engineering applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Skills: Change
management skills, planning and organizing skills, project and financial
management skills, problem solving and decision making abilities, creativity.
Technical consulting. Technical report writing. Computer skills. Customer focus
and responsiveness. People management.
DUTIES : Assist Engineers, Technologists and associates in the field, workshop and
technical office activities. Promote safety in line with statutory and regulatory
requirements. Adherence to existing technical manuals standard drawings and
procedures to incorporate new technology. Produce technical design with
specifications and submit for evaluation and approval by the applicable
authority. Provide inputs into the budgeting process as required. Compile and
submit reports as required. Provide and consolidate inputs to the
technical/engineering operational plan. Develop, implement and maintain
databases and supervise and control technical and related personnel and
assets. Ensure continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Research/literate studies on technical
engineering technology to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/
councils on engineering-related matters. Populate the Infrastructure Reporting
Model (IRM) and other reporting systems.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M.M Mthombeni at 087 086 5927
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: dpwrbojanalarecruit@nwpg.gov.za
130
POST 38/177 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN - ROAD MAINTENANCE REF NO: BOJ
15/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R391 671 per annum, (OSD/sl2)
CENTRE : District Office (Bojanala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Senior Certificate (Grade 12) plus a National Diploma in
Engineering or relevant qualification. Experience: 3 years post qualification
technical experience. A valid driver’s license. A compulsory registration with
ECSA as a Professional Engineering Technician. Knowledge: All roads-related
acts, ordinances, policies, standards and norms. Project management,
technical design and analysis knowledge, advertising on Roads and Ribbon
Development Act, 1940. Contract management. Public Service Act. Public
Service Regulations. Labour Relations Act. Public Finance Management Act.
Construction Manual. Road Sign. Roads Act. Road Traffic Act. Occupational
Health and Safety Act. Research and development. Computer-aided
engineering applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Skills: Change
management skills, planning and organizing skills, project and financial
management skills, problem solving and decision making abilities, creativity.
Technical consulting. Technical report writing. Computer skills. Customer focus
and responsiveness. People management.
DUTIES : Assist Engineers, Technologists and associates in the field, workshop and
technical office activities. Promote safety in line with statutory and regulatory
requirements. Adherence to existing technical manuals standard drawings and
procedures to incorporate new technology. Produce technical design with
specifications and submit for evaluation and approval by the applicable
authority. Provide inputs into the budgeting process as required. Compile and
submit reports as required. Provide and consolidate inputs to the
technical/engineering operational plan. Develop, implement and maintain
databases and supervise and control technical and related personnel and
assets. Ensure continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Research/literate studies on technical
engineering technology to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/
councils on engineering-related matters. Populate the Infrastructure Reporting
Model (IRM) and other reporting systems.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M.M Mthombeni at 087 086 5927
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: dpwrbojanalarecruit@nwpg.gov.za
POST 38/178 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN-CONTRACTS, PAVEMENT MANAGEMENT,
MATERIAL SERVICES REF NO: BOJ 16/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R391 671 per annum, (OSD/sl2)
CENTRE : District Office (Bojanala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Senior Certificate (Grade 12) plus a National Diploma in
Engineering or relevant qualification. Experience: 3 years post qualification
technical experience. A valid driver’s license. A compulsory registration with
ECSA as a Professional Engineering Technician. Knowledge: All roads-related
acts, ordinances, policies, standards and norms. Project management,
technical design and analysis knowledge, advertising on Roads and Ribbon
Development Act, 1940. Contract management. Public Service Act. Public
Service Regulations. Labour Relations Act. Public Finance Management Act.
Construction Manual. Road Sign. Roads Act. Road Traffic Act. Occupational
Health and Safety Act. Research and development. Computer-aided
engineering applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Skills: Change
management skills, planning and organizing skills, project and financial
management skills, problem solving and decision making abilities, creativity.
Technical consulting. Technical report writing. Computer skills. Customer focus
and responsiveness. People management.
DUTIES : Assist Engineers, Technologists and associates in the field, workshop and
technical office activities. Promote safety in line with statutory and regulatory
requirements. Adherence to existing technical manuals standard drawings and
procedures to incorporate new technology. Produce technical design with
specifications and submit for evaluation and approval by the applicable
authority. Provide inputs into the budgeting process as required. Compile and
submit reports as required. Provide and consolidate inputs to the
technical/engineering operational plan. Develop, implement and maintain
databases and supervise and control technical and related personnel and
assets. Ensure continuous professional development to keep up with new
131
technologies and procedures. Research/literate studies on technical
engineering technology to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/
councils on engineering-related matters. Populate the Infrastructure Reporting
Model (IRM) and other reporting systems.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M.M Mthombeni at 087 086 5927
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: dpwrbojanalarecruit@nwpg.gov.za
POST 38/179 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN GRADE A-CIVIL/STRUCTURAL REF NO: H/O
73/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R391 671 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng (Infrastructure Construction Maintenance)
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus National Diploma in Engineering
or relevant qualification. Compulsory registration with ECSA as a Professional
Engineering Technician. Three years post qualification technical experience
required. A Valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Project management. Technical
design and analysis knowledge. Research and development. Computer aided
engineering applications. Knowledge of legal compliance Technical report
writing. Technical report writing. Technical consulting. Skills: Problem solving
and analysis. Decision making. Team work. Creativity. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills. People Management.
Planning and organizing. Change Management.
DUTIES : Assist Engineers, Technologists and associates in flied, workshop and
technical office activities. Promote safety in line with statutory and regulatory
requirements. Adherence to exiting technical manuals, standards drawings and
procedures to incorporate new technology. Compile and submit reports as
required. Provide inputs to the technical/engineering operational plan.
Develop, implement and maintain database. Keep up with new technologies
and procedures. Research/Literature studies on technical engineering
technology to improve expertise. To liaise with relevant bodies/councils on
engineering-related matters. Follow approved programme of development for
registration processes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M. Sepotokele/Mr. T. Chanda Tel No: (018) 388 4199/4516
APPLICATIONS : Use the correct E-mail: DPWRHORecruit4@nwpg.gov.za
132
ANNEXURE W
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 38/180 : CIVIL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION LEVEL): LANDCARE
(WELLINGTON) REF NO: AGR 05/2025 R1
SALARY : Grade A: R391 671 per annum
Grade C: R586 665 per annum
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Civil Engineering; Compulsory registration with the Engineering
Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineering Technician; A
minimum of 3years relevant post qualification technical
(engineering)experience. Competencies: Project Management; Technical
design and analysis knowledge; Research and development; Computer-aided
engineering applications; Knowledge of legal compliance; Technical report
writing; Technical consulting; Skills needed: Problem solving and analysis;
Decision making; Team work; Creativity; Customer focus and responsiveness;
Written and verbal communication skills; Computer; People Management;
Planning and organising; Change Management; Good analytical, problem
solving, interpersonal and organisational; Self-motivated, Ability to work under
pressure; It will be advantageous to have a valid driving license (Code B or
higher).
DUTIES : Render technical services: Assist engineers, technologists and associates in
field, workshop and technical office activities; Promote safety in line with
statutory and regulatory requirements; Evaluate existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology and produce
technical designs with specifications and submit for evaluation and approval by
the relevant authority; Perform administrative and related functions; Provide
input into the budgeting process as required; Compile and submit reports as
required; Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical/engineering
operational plan; Develop, implement and maintain databases; Supervise and
control technical and related personnel and assets; Research and
development: Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures; Research/literature studies on technical
engineering technology to improve expertise; Liaise with relevant stakeholders
on engineering related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Roscher Tel No: (021) 808 7801 /(083) 675 1315
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 38/181 : ANIMAL HEALTH TECHNICIAN: ANIMAL HEALTH (BOLAND-
KHAYELITSHA) REF NO: AGR 74/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma/B-Degree in Animal Health; A minimum of 1
year appropriate post-qualification experience; Compulsory registration as an
Animal Health Technician with the South African Veterinary Council (SAVC) in
133
the appropriate field; A valid driving licence (Code EB or higher).
Competencies: Communication skills (written and verbal); Good planning and
organizational skills; Good interpersonal skills, analytical, and problem-solving
skills; Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, MS Outlook);
Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Animal Disease Control; Import and Export Policy Control Perform
Epidemiology investigations; Veterinary Public Health; Animal welfare.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MB Cupido Tel No: (021) 808 5027
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 38/182 : VETERINARY PUBLIC HEALTH OFFICER: VETERINARY INTERNATIONAL
TRADE REF NO: AGR 76/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher)
qualification in Environmental Health; A minimum of 1 year relevant experience
in an abattoir environment; A valid code B (or higher) driving licence.
Competencies: Good administrative skills and knowledge of administrative
procedures; Sound organisational and planning skills; Computer literacy; A
sense of responsibility; Good interpersonal / communication skills.
DUTIES : Practical experience of meat safety risk management and export controls;
Practical knowledge of hygiene management systems and food safety risk
assessment applicable to food processing establishments, including abattoirs;
Working knowledge of the Meat Safety Act, 2000 (Act no. 40 of 2000) and
Regulations. A valid registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa is recommended.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Twala Tel No: (021) 808 7631
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 38/183 : FARM FOREMAN: POMOLOGY (ELSENBURG) REF NO: AGR 73/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior certificate/Grade 12 (or equivalent qualification); A minimum of 1 year
relevant experience in Pome, Stone, and/or Citrus production or similar; A valid
(Code 8) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving
abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: A good understanding of the following: Pruning methods;
Tractor driving and spraying with a spray car; Basic computer literacy; Forklift
driving; Written and verbal communication skills.
DUTIES : Oversee the execution of routine activities in respect of fruit production;
Oversee the execution of general routine activities; Oversee the execution of
general routine activities in respect of infrastructure; Perform all administrative
and related functions; The following will be advantageous: Proven working
knowledge of all fruit crops produced in the Western Cape; Working knowledge
of alternative crops produced in the western Cape.
ENQUIRIES : Mr EL Moiler Tel No: (021) 808 5456
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 38/184 : HANDYMAN: GENERAL SUPPORT SERVICES (ELSENBURG) REF NO:
AGR 75/2025
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Basic literacy and numeracy (ABET Level 4/Grade 9); A minimum of 6 months
appropriate experience; A valid (Code B or higher) driving license. NB: People
with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access
to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Good understanding of the
following: Proven building maintenance skills; Ability to work with building
materials, carpentry and plumbing tools (power tools); Ability to work under
134
pressure and meet deadlines; Good interpersonal relations; Attitude towards
service delivery; Basic communication skills; Ability to work shifts when
required.
DUTIES : Responsible for the following: Maintenance work at the facility; Operating
mechanical machinery; Maintaining equipment; Responsible for cleaning of
equipment; Inspect and report on buildings and equipment to supervisor;
Report any shortages/breakages of material and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LB Smith Tel No: (021) 808 5470
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful.
POST 38/185 : FARM AID: FARM SERVICES: OUTENIQUA REF NO: AGR 20/2025 R1
SALARY : R138 486 - R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Basic literacy and numeracy (ABET level 3/Grade 7). Competencies:
Knowledge and skills of general farm work and maintenance; Knowledge and
skills of working with Research farm animals and pasture; Ability to handle and
carry weights of up to 50kg; Basic communication skills; It will be advantageous
to have a valid (Code B or higher) driving license. NB: People with disabilities
that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may
also apply
DUTIES : Perform routine activities of crop production e.g. planting, harvesting, irrigation;
Perform routine activities of livestock e.g. caring, dipping and dosing;
Performing general farm activities e.g. cleaning, loading and maintain water
supply systems; Perform general routine activities in respect of infrastructure
e.g. maintain fences roads and pipelines. The following will be advantageous:
Senior Certificate (Grade 12); Proven experience in the following: General farm
work; Working with farm animals; Farm infrastructure construction and
maintenance e.g. fencing, building and water pipe systems.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. H.S Gerber Tel No: (044) 803 3727
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful.
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates must make themselves available to be interviewed at
a date, time and place as decided by the selection panel. Please ensure that
you submit your application on or before the closing date as no late applications
will be considered. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
135
the employing department. Kindly note that technical support is only available
from Monday to Friday from 8:00 to 16.00. Should you experience any
difficulties with your online application you may contact the helpline at 0861
370 214. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that
intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will
be communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive
on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS Competency Assessment tools. The nominated
candidate will be required to complete the Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme before they may be appointed into this post. The purpose of the
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, which is a public service specific
training programme applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is
to ensure that potential SMS members have a background on processes and
procedures linked to the SMS. The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme
is 120 notional hours (15 days). Full details may be sourced by the following
link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-preentryprogramme/
Furthermore, thanks to the huge public interest we receive many applications
for our positions, and as such will not be able to respond personally to all
applications. Therefore, should you not hear from us within 10 weeks from
close of advert please consider your application unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 38/186 : DIRECTOR: SKILLS PROGRAMMES AND PROJECTS REF NO: DEDAT
54/2025
SALARY : R1266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in commerce or economics in
relation to a discipline recognised by SAQA; 5 years’ middle and/or senior
management experience; and 3 years’ experience in or giving effect to priorities
in the skills, education, or economic development ecosystems. Competencies:
Strategic Capability and Leadership; Programme and Project Management;
Change Management; Financial Management; People Management and
Empowerment.
DUTIES : Strategic management, advice and guidance in respect of the following
functional areas: Develop and manage workplace skills projects, Partner with
higher education institutions to develop curriculum, Facilitate placement of
learners with host companies, Develop and facilitate skills development;
Strategic Management: Define and review on a continual basis the purpose,
objectives, priorities and activities of the Directorate, Drive the Directorate’s
strategic planning process; Drive the development and management of the
strategic and business plans for the Directorate; Evaluate the performance of
the Directorate on a continuing basis against pre-determined key measurable
objectives and standards; People Management: Participate in the recruitment
of employees in the numbers and grades appropriate to ensure the
achievement of the Directorate’s Business Plan, Motivate, train and guide
employees within the Directorate, to achieve and maintain excellence in
service delivery, Actively manage the performance, evaluation and rewarding
of employees within the Directorate, Monitor information capacity building
within the Directorate, Ensure involvement in the compilation of a workforce
plan, a service delivery improvement programme, and an information
resources plan for the Directorate, Promote sound labour relations within the
Directorate, Actively manage and promote the maintenance of discipline within
the Directorate; Financial Management: Manage participation in the budgeting
process at Directorate level, Ensure the preparation of the Annual and
Adjustment Budgets for the Directorate, Assume direct accountability for the
efficient, economic and effective control and management of the Directorate’s
budget and expenditure, Assume direct accountability for ensuring that the
correct tender and procurement procedures are adhered to in respect of
purchases for the Directorate, Assume direct accountability for ensuring
contracts are managed effectively and efficiently for the Directorate, Ensure
that all spending is aligned with the strategic objectives of the Directorate and
136
Department, Report to the Chief Director and relevant oversight role
players/committees on all aspects of the Directorate’s finances, Assume overall
accountability for the management, maintenance and safekeeping of the
Directorate’s assets, Assume direct accountability for ensuring that appropriate
risk management procedures are in place and adhered to for the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Nezaam Joseph Tel No: (021) 483 9011
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
OTHER POST
POST 38/187 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BUSINESS REGULATION AND GOVERNANCE
(TRIBUNAL SUPPORT) REF NO: DEDAT 53/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year Bachelors Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in
the legal field; A minimum of 3 years experience working in a legal and/or
regulatory environment. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Overall
understanding of the legal environment related to consumer protection and/or
the court process; Labour processes; Financial management including the
Public Finance Management Act; Project management; Public service
procedures; Applicable policies and procedures; Relationship management;
ECM (My Content); Skills needed: Proven computer literacy in MS Office
Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Communication (written and verbal);
Project Management; Accounting finance and audit; Information technology
formal training; Legal administration; Strategic planning; Ability to work
independently and as part of a team; It will be advantageous to have a valid
code B (or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
DUTIES : Administrative and operational services provided to the Western Cape
Consumer Affairs Tribunal (WCCAT); Render a prosecution service to WCCAT;
Project implementation and administration; Operational plan development and
implementation of counterfeit goods operations; The following will be
advantageous: Admission as an attorney or Advocate; Working knowledge of
legal processes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Nopote Tel No: (021) 483 9411 or Buyile.Nopote@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 38/188 : CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate undergraduate qualification
(NQF level 7) in a Health/Social Science or related field or 4-year degree in an
appropriate management field as recognized by SAQA with at least 5 years’
experience at a middle/senior managerial level. Pre-entry Certificate for the
Senior Management Services is a requirement (Candidates not in possession
of this entry requirement can still apply but are requested to register for the
course and complete it as no appointment can be made in the absence thereof.
137
The course is available at the National School of Governance (NSG) under the
name “Certificate for entry into the SMS” and the full details can be sourced
from the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-pre-
entry-programme/. All costs associated herewith are the responsibility of the
applicant). Experience: Appropriate experience and a proven track record in all
major aspects of management within a healthcare environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid driver’s licence. Willingness to travel across the
province as required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strong corporate
management skills within a health service environment. Policy implementation
and guidelines development. Strong business orientation with the proven skills
and ability in the financial management of health services. Open-minded and
the ability to accommodate diverse views. Innovative, creative and lateral
thinker. Ability to think fast, decisively and appropriately to rapidly changing
situations. Adaptive leadership capabilities. High level of computer literacy, with
proficiency in MS Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint, internet-based
applications, and email communication.
DUTIES : Exercise leadership and overall governance of institution with departmental
strategic priorities and framework. Overall responsibility for Clinical
Governance of the hospital ensuring effective and efficient management of all
aspects of patient care, ensuring the highest standard of care possible within
the available resource framework. Overall responsible for corporate
governance, including all aspects of People Management and Development,
Financial Management and management of Support Services. Incumbent will
be required to manage the health facility efficiently and effectively in terms of
the management of the public service in accordance with the strategic direction
of the National/Provincial Health department. Represent the institution
appropriately in relevant internal and external governance interactions. Provide
leadership support to the specific hospital to deliver quality, efficient, equitable
and effective health system management within prevailing legal and statutory
frameworks to the Sub-district.
ENQUIRIES : Dr G Perez Tel No: (021) 815-8668
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
OTHER POSTS
POST 38/189 : MANAGER: MEDICAL SERVICES GRADE 1
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 422 810 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: A minimum of 3 years
appropriate experience as a Medical Officer after registration with the HPCSA
as Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver's licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): A post-graduate
qualification in Public Health Medicine. Capacity to function within senior
clinical management & executive management teams. Exceptional skills in
leadership, strategy, public health, risk management, quality improvement, and
project management. Competency in strategy development, strategy
implementation, stakeholder engagement, and policy development.
Competency in occupational health and safety, clinical service improvement,
risk management and quality. Exceptional interpersonal skills, including
leadership, culture change, relationship building, listening and communication
skills. Advanced information technology skills and ability to acquire new skills
as required.
DUTIES : Assist the CEO in strategy development and implementation. Organizational
culture transformation and hospital brand advancement. Planning, target
setting, monitoring and evaluation. Service redesign and ecosystem
governance. Risk management, quality management, Occupational Health
and Safety Management and medico-legal management. Management of
special projects. Stakeholder and community engagements.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Mukosi Tel No: (021) 938-4136
138
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/190 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3: GENERAL SURGERY
(TRANSPLANT UNIT)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in General Surgery. Registration with the Professions
Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in General
Surgery. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in General Surgery. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
(or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign
qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in General Surgery. Grade 3: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in
General Surgery. Inherent requirement of the job: Commuted overtime is
compulsory. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Clinical and surgical
competency in General and Transplant Surgery. Ability to work in a high-
volume clinic and surgical environment. Computer literacy and interest in data
collection for service improvement. Insight into challenges of local health care
delivery, diversity, transformation and equity. Clinical experience in abdominal
transplant surgery with significant experience in liver and renal transplantation
at the level of independent surgical competence in these fields. Experience in
supervision and training of staff and students at under- and post-graduate
levels. A post general surgery qualification fellowship in transplant surgery and
published research.
DUTIES : Adult and Paediatric Transplant Surgery specialist support to other facilities in
keeping with the Western Cape Department of Health and Wellness
Ecosystem framework. General and Transplant surgery specialist clinical
service provision in the Groote Schuur Hospital Division of General Surgery
(Transplant Unit). General Surgery and Transplant Surgery specialist clinical
services in the Division of General Surgery at the hospitals on the platform
serviced by the division. Supervision and training of junior surgical staff.
Participation in under- and post-graduate divisional activities.
ENQUIRIES : Prof L Cairncross Tel No: (021) 406-6229
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
139
POST 38/191 : MANAGER: NURSING EDUCATION AND TRAINING (HEAD OFFICE)
Directorate: People Development
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 155 099 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (Stationed at Western Cape College of Nursing,
Central Admin, Stikland)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum education qualifications: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/
degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Post basic
qualification in Nursing Education registered with the SANC. A management
qualification. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period referred to above be appropriate/recognisable experience at
management level. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Extensive knowledge of procedures and
processes related to Nursing Education and Training. Thorough knowledge
and understanding of Nursing Education Standards, Scope of Practice, Code
of ethics etc. Thorough knowledge and understanding of health-related Acts,
Regulations, Guidelines and other related policies such as Nursing Act and
Regulations, Health Act, etc. Sound interpersonal skills and communication
skills both written and verbal as well as the ability to use all relevant computer
applications effectively, independently and with ease. Ability to perform a
statistical analysis of quantitative and qualitative data with the aim of producing
relevant graphic summaries and displays. Relevant knowledge in People,
Financial, Project Management and Strategic Planning.
DUTIES : Develop, manage and implement strategic and operational plans to guide
implementation strategies for nurse training in support of the Directorate's
objectives. Develop and implement policies pertaining to nurse education and
training. Coordinate nursing related research and development. Develop,
operationalise and monitor education and training practices within the
Department. Provide support and advice to management in matters related to
nursing education and training. Manage and utilize resources in accordance
with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Dr T Mabuda at (073) 698-3579
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/192 : MANAGER: NURSING (CLINICAL PRACTICE)
Directorate: People Management
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 155 099 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Head Office (Stationed at Western Cape College of Nursing)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum education qualifications: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/
degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A
management qualification. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum
of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period referred to above be appropriate/recognisable experience at
management level. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Driver’s Licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Extensive knowledge of procedures and
processes related to Nursing Practice. Thorough knowledge and
understanding of Nursing Standards of Practice, Scope of Practice, Code of
ethics etc. Thorough knowledge and understanding of health-related Acts,
Regulations, Guidelines and other related policies such as Nursing Act and
Regulation, Health Act, etc. Sound interpersonal skills and communication
skills both written and verbal as well as the ability to use all relevant computer
applications effectively, independently and with ease. Ability to perform a
statistical analysis of quantitative and qualitative data with the aim of producing
140
relevant graphic summaries and displays. Relevant knowledge in People,
Financial, Project Management and Strategic Planning.
DUTIES : Develop, manage and implement strategic and operational plans to guide
implementation strategies for clinical nursing practice in support of the
Department and Directorate's objectives. Oversee the Development and
execution of nursing policies with specific reference to clinical nursing practice.
Manage and direct corporate nursing planning. Monitor nursing services within
the Department. Provide support and advice to management as a clinical
nursing practice specialist advisor. Establish, maintain and participate in inter-
professional and multi-disciplinary teamwork to promote efficient and effective
health care. Manage and utilize human resources in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Dr V Makie Tel No: (021) 831-5835
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/193 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3: EMERGENCY MEDICINE (X6 POSTS)
(1-Year Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Commuted overtime
is compulsory. Advanced Trauma Life Support (ATLS) certified. Advanced
Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) certified. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Completion of Community Service and prior Emergency Centre experience.
Ability to work as part of a multidisciplinary team. Ability to communicate
effectively (verbal and written). -Appropriate and sufficient clinical experience
in the emergency environment seeing trauma and non-trauma patients. Desire
to conduct research. Additional course, ultrasound.
DUTIES : Contribute to the teaching sessions for the department. Involvement in
innovative projects and research activities within the department. Partake in
the clinical governance for the department including medicolegal matters.
Provision of quality clinical and non-clinical patient care in the trauma and non-
trauma environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Ndwebe Tel No: (021) 404-4157 or email:
sinazo.ndwebe@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in possession of the
141
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the department’s
ecosystem framing of its training platform. Accordingly, all Medical Officer
appointments may be called upon to work across this platform and may include
rotations at Metro West and Rural East hospitals. This includes Red Cross War
Memorial Children's Hospital, New Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plein District
Hospital, Victoria Hospital and George Provincial Hospital. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post. Please ensure that you attach an updated CV.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/194 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3: INTERNAL MEDICINE
(1-Year Contact)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA-qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign-qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform community
service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA- qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign-qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign-qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Commuted overtime
is compulsory. Emergency and after hour call cover. Valid ACLS Certificate.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and clinical skills required of a
Medical Officer (e.g. Assessment, diagnosis and treatment in inpatient,
outpatient, and acute medical/emergency contexts). Practical clinical skills
appropriate for diagnostic investigations and those required for resuscitation
and stabilisation of acutely unwell patients according to ACLS principles.
Effective and efficient administration. Communication including clinical
summary/report generation, consultation as well as patient counselling.
Effective leadership & interpersonal skills. Completion of FCP Part 1.
DUTIES : Provision of safe medical care to patients in the Acute Medical Admissions and
Emergency Unit, High Care Unit, Inpatient medical wards and Medical
Outpatients department at Groote Schuur Hospital and satellite hospitals.
Perform onsite after-hours duties as per call roster. Supervise and support
medical students, interns and community service medical officers providing
medical care. Involvement in research/audits relating to Internal Medicine.
ENQUIRIES : Dr D Maughan, Tel No: (021) 406-6422 or email: deborah.maughan@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
142
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). Please ensure that you attach an updated CV. -The pool of
applicants will be considered for other similar posts within Groote Schuur
Hospital, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post. Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the
department’s ecosystem framing of its training platform. Accordingly, all
Medical Officer appointments may be called upon to work across this platform
and may include rotations at Metro West and Rural East hospitals. This
includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, New Somerset Hospital,
Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and George Provincial
Hospital.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/195 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Michael Mapongwana CDC, Khayelitsha Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. A post-basic qualification with duration of at least 1-year Diploma in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited
with the SANC (R48). Registration with the Professions Council: Registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A minimum
of 9 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in Clinical Nursing Science: Health
Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited with the SANC (R48). Inherent
requirement of the job: Code (B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to work after
hours. Competencies (knowledge/skills): The ability to manage operations in a
Primary Health Care Facility. Computer literacy (MS office). Proven
transformation leadership abilities. Good interpersonal, people and change
management skills. Knowledge of Public Sector legislation. The ability to
function independently as well as in a multi-disciplinary team and make
decisions. Ability to formulate collaborative relationship with various stake
holders across the primary health care platform.
DUTIES : Leadership, Guidance and Support to overall management to achieve
operational goals and objectives. Support to Manager using information to
enhance service delivery and priority programs as co-ordination of higher
education students, NPO’s and relevant stake holders. Ensure that prescribed
policies and procedures are implemented and contribute to quality assurance
and quality improvement. Assist with the Monitoring of Facilities Management,
Maintenance and Infrastructure implementation plans. Co-ordinate and
evaluate Community Orientated Primary Health Care Services. Support to
Facility Manger with community governance structures and processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Jacobs Tel No: (021) 361-3353
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
143
POST 38/196 : QUALITY ASSURANCE MANAGER
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Northern Tygerberg Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 4-year Health related National
Diploma/Degree or equivalent registrable with a South African Statutory Health
Professions Council or South African Nursing Council. Experience: Appropriate
experience in supporting or implementation of quality assurance initiatives in a
health-related environment. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literate in MS
Office (Excel, Word and Powerpoint) and MS Outlook. Leadership,
interpersonal, good communication and organizational skills. Knowledge of
Quality Management, Occupational Health and Safety and Infection Prevention
and Control in the health sector. Knowledge and understanding of relevant
policies and legislation related to Health in the public sector and health systems
delivery. Experience in customer care and complaints management.
DUTIES : Effective co-ordination, monitoring and evaluation of quality management, risk
Management, health and safety and infection control initiatives. Collect,
analyze data and provide technical reports and presentations, including quality
improvement plans for internal and external stakeholders. Manage compliance
and improvement in terms of: Ideal Facility, Adverse Patient Incidents,
Complaints and Suggestions, Patient Experience of Care and PAIA. Contribute
to quality improvement through staff wellness and development, information
sharing, training and SOP development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. MK Williams Tel No: (021) 815-8882
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/197 : CHIEF DIAGNOSTIC RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 (RADIOLOGY)
SALARY : R575 250 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Diagnostic Radiographer. Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Diagnostic Radiographer. Experience: A
minimum of 3 years’ appropriate experience as a Diagnostic Radiographer
after registration with the HPCSA. Inherent Requirement of the job: Must be
willing to work shifts when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computerised Tomography and PACS experience. Ability to manage and
supervise a sub-section of the department with knowledge, experience and
skills in general, trauma, emergency, theatre and mobile radiography and
Fluoroscopy. Computer literacy. Extensive radiographic experience and
knowledge of radiography protocols. Good communication skills (verbal and
written). Thorough knowledge of radiation protection, quality assurance and
equipment safety pertaining to radiography.
DUTIES : Be responsible for the control, supervision, delegation and co-ordination of
activities in a sub-section of the department and the delivery of a professional
service to patients. Ensure quality assurance, maintenance of equipment and
the purchase, use and care of suitable radiation protection equipment. Manage
radiography and support personnel, including performance appraisals.
Participate in middle management and delegated management tasks,
including statistic collation and provide support to the Assistant Director.
Participate in the management of the cost centre. Produce diagnostic images
of high quality and be responsible for staff and student training in your area.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Behardien-Peters Tel No: (021) 404-4187
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
144
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a competency test. No payment of any kind is required
when applying for this post. As directed by the Department of Public Service
and Administration, applicants must note that further checks will be conducted
once they are shortlisted and that their appointment is subject to positive
outcomes on these checks, which include security clearance, qualification
verification, criminal records and previous employment. Please ensure that you
attach an updated CV. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of three months from the date of
the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/198 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING GRADE 1 (GENERAL)
(OUTPATIENTS DEPARTMENT) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse.
Registration with the Professions Council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 7 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirement
of the job: Assist with after-hour, night duty and weekend duties as per Nursing
Management allocations in the hospital, when required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Principles of Management: Supervisory, leadership,
problem solving decision making, public speaking, conflict resolution and
interpersonal/communication skills, the ability to function independently as well
as part of the multi-disciplinary team and have Good organisational skills and
the ability to function under pressure. Knowledge of Nursing legislation related
legal and ethical nursing practices and framework. Human Resources, Labour
relations legislation and Financial Management, including computer literacy
(i.e. Ms Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook).
DUTIES : Responsible for the co-ordination and delivery of within the relevant
departments, participation and implementation of audits and planned
improvement initiatives. Participate in formulation, monitoring and
implementation of policies, guidelines, standards, procedures and regulations
pertaining to nursing care within the relevant Department. Provide effective
support, perform nightshift duties as required, management of human, material
and financial resources, as well as the Functional Business FBU management
principles. Manage staff performance, training and personal development of
self and subordinates including management of underperformance and
grievances. Collect, provide and use relevant information for the enhancement
of service delivery, including participation in and encouragement of nursing
research. Maintain ethical standards and promote professional development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Moodley Tel No: (021) 404-2115
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test as part of the recruitment
process. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within
Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of three months from the date of the
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test as part of the recruitment
process.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/199 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (GENERAL UNIT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Carnation Ward: (based at Mitchells Plain District Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
145
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Registered Professional
Nurse. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse. Experience: Minimum of 7 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional nurse in general nursing. Inherent requirements of the job: Ability
and willingness to assist with afterhours hospital cover including weekends,
public holidays and night duty relief and overtime should the need arises. Ability
to work under pressure and in a multi-disciplinary team context. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Skilled nurse clinician able to lead and manage the nursing
unit with conflict management, problem solving and decision-making skills;
ability to facilitate training. In depth knowledge and understanding of legal and
ethical legislations, Nursing and Health Act, Regulations and policies related to
Nursing practices, National Core Standards and the Public service code of
conduct. Basic computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Clinical governance: Provide leadership, supervision and direction for the
provision of adequate and efficient comprehensive holistic nursing care.
Quality Assurance: develop and implement practice standards, protocols and
indicators for quality improvement; evaluate nursing service practices and
clinical outcomes. Resource planning and management (human, health
technology, financial and physical). Information management and utilization of
information technology – data collection Analysis and interpretation. Service
delivery – facilitate effective unit management to achieve client’s healthcare
needs and service delivery targets as per Department, institution and unit
Annual Operational plans: Health education and promotion. Promote and
maintain constructive working relationships with all stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R. Geswindt Tel No: (021) 377-4410
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Mitchell’s Plain Hospital,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/200 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR (COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH
SERVICES)
West Coast District
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : West Coast District Office, Malmesbury
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with SANC as a Professional Nurse. Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of
7 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirement of the
jobs: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to work overtime when
required and travel in the district or province as may be required.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to think strategically and analytically,
work independently, as well as the ability to interpret and implement policies
and guidelines. Computer literacy (i.e. MS Word, PowerPoint and Excel) and
good report writing. Ability to work on health information systems, ie Sinjani,
SPV, SharePoint.
DUTIES : Overall planning, coordination, policy implementation and services monitoring
of mental health, chronic diseases of lifestyle, rehabilitation services, palliative
care, maternal health as part of the late-life course approach. Provide
oversight, supervision and support to health facilities regarding quality
assurance policies and procedures Support to community outreaches and
specific projects with NPOs and health facilities to improve health outcomes.
Monitoring and evaluation of integrated health services performance linked to
specific data elements, indicators in the district health and annual performance
plans. Interface management with all stakeholders, internal and external
structures to enhance implementation of COPC principles and wellness.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Kogana Tel No: (022) 814-0348/9
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
146
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the West Coast District Office, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/201 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE) (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Greenpoint CDC (X1 Post)
Lady Michaelis CDC (X1 Post)
District Six CDC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. A post-basic qualification with a duration of at least 1-year Diploma in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care, accredited
with SANC (R48). Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A
minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least
10 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable
experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as mentioned
above. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB).
Willingness to work overtime when necessary and willingness to work at other
clinics in the Sub-district. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic computer
skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook. Knowledge of relevant legislation and
policies of the Department of Health Western Cape. Communication skills
(written and verbal).
DUTIES : Assist with the provision of Comprehensive PHC clinical service to surrounding
communities. Plan and implement Health Promotion and Prevention activities
in facility and community as part of COPC. Liaise with internal and external
stakeholders as part of the multi-disciplinary team. Clinical governance as part
of quality assurance. Information Management and timeous submission of
reports and participation in facility audits. Assist with management of human
resources and the development of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Tshongweni Tel No: (021) 421-0288 (Greenpoint CDC); Ms L Van Wyk:
Tel No: (021) 797-8171 (Lady Michaelis CDC); Ms N Diedericks Tel No: (021)
833-5400 (District Six CDC)
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Southern Western Sub-
structure, for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that
the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the
same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/202 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER: GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE)
Cape Winelands District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : TC Newman CDC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Post-basic qualification, with duration of at least 1-year, in Curative Skills in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited
147
with the SANC (R48). Registration with Professional council: Registration with
the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years of appropriate/recognizable
nursing experience after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in
General nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years’ appropriate/recognizable
nursing experience after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in
General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be an
appropriate/recognizable experience after obtaining the 1 year post basic
qualification in the relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job:
Prepared to work at different facilities within the Sub District inclusive a Mobile
and when needed within the community (COPC concept). A valid driver’s
license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Demonstrate in-depth knowledge of
Nursing and public service legislation. Ability to effectively communicate
(written and verbal). Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel).
DUTIES : Assist with the management of the burden of disease in accordance with the
guidelines and protocols of the western cape. Provide and maintain quality of
care to all patients and health services. Maintain accurate clinical records,
statistics registers, and referral records. Effective utilization of
Resources/Stock within the limited budget constraints. Participation in
Community events and initiating awareness with regards to health-related
issues. Maintain and participate in inter-professional and multi-disciplinary
teamwork but able to work independently. Supervise and mentor lower
categories of staff. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Bosch Tel No: (021) 862-4520
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification: Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science, Health Assessment,
Treatment Care. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Drakenstein Sub-district, for a period of three months from the date of
the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/203 : CLINICAL NURSE PACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE)
Cape Winelands District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Gouda Clinic
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Post-basic qualification, with duration of at least 1-year, in Curative Skills in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited
with the SANC (R48). Registration with Professional council: Registration with
the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognizable nursing
experience after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General
nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognizable nursing
experience after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General
Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience after obtaining the 1 year post basic
qualification in the relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job:
Prepared to work at different facilities within the Sub District inclusive a Mobile
and when needed within the community (COPC concept). A valid driver’s
licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Demonstrate in-depth knowledge of
Nursing and public service legislation. Ability to effectively communicate
(written and verbal). Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel).
148
DUTIES : Assist with the management of the burden of disease in accordance with the
guidelines and protocols of the western cape. Provide and maintain quality of
care to all patients and health services. Maintain accurate clinical records,
statistics registers, and referral records. Effective utilization of
Resources/Stock within the limited budget constraints. Participation in
Community events and initiating awareness with regards to health-related
issues. Maintain and participate in inter-professional and multi-disciplinary
teamwork but able to work independently. Supervise and mentor lower
categories of staff. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms EJ Williams Tel No: (021) 862-4520
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification: Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science, Health Assessment,
Treatment Care. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Drakenstein Sub-district, for a period of three months from the date of
the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/204 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE: EC OPD OVERNIGHT)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Hermanus Hospital, Overstrand Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Post-basic qualification, with duration of at least 1-year, in Curative Skills in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited
with the SANC (R48). Registration with the Professions Council: Registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A
minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least
10 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable
experience after obtaining the 1 year post basic qualification in the relevant
specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid driver’s license. Willing to
work shifts include weekends and public holidays. Act as shift leader.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Demonstrate in-depth knowledge of Nursing
and public service legislation. Effective communication skills. Computer literacy
(MS Word and Excel).
DUTIES : Rendering a comprehensive primary health care service within the emergency
room within standards and a professional/legal framework. Rendering acute
emergency care to all patients. Effective utilization and supervision of human
and financial resources and participation in training and development and
research. Effective implementation of infection control policies and
occupational and health legislation. Provide effective support to nursing
services and hospital management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms AE Klaasen Tel No: (028) 312-1166
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
149
submitted with their job application/on appointment. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification: Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science, Health Assessment,
Treatment Care. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Overberg District, for a period of three months from the date of the
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/205 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: TRAUMA AND
EMERGENCY)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Vredendal Hospital, Matzikama Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. A post-basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least one year,
accredited with SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science in Critical Care
Nursing: Trauma and Emergency or Medical and Surgical Science in Critical
Care Nursing: General. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration
with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC.
Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration at SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing.
At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in Trauma/Emergency Care after
obtaining the one-year post-basic qualification in the relevant specialty as
mentioned above. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts,
weekends, public holidays and night duty as well as overtime when necessary.
Ability to work in a high stress environment in a resource-limited rural setting.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to function/make decisions
independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good communication,
interpersonal relationships, exceptional leadership and conflict resolution skills.
Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, and Outlook. Sound knowledge of
relevant nursing legislation, policies and protocols of the Department of Health,
Western Cape.
DUTIES : Provide direction/supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan to
ensure optimal, holistic nursing care with set standards and within a
professional/legal framework. Effective utilisation of human-, material- and
physical resources. Participation in training and research. Provision of support
to nursing services and nursing management. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CJW Basson Tel No: (027) 213-2038/6
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification: Medical and Surgical Nursing Science in Critical Care
Nursing: Trauma and Emergency or Medical and Surgical Science in Critical
Care Nursing: General. -The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within the Matzikama Sub-district, for a period of three months from
the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
150
POST 38/206 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Human Resources related field. Experience: Appropriate experience
in all aspects of human resource management. Appropriate knowledge of
Labour relations and Human Resources Development. Appropriate
supervisory experience. Appropriate PERSAL experience. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid Code B driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge of Human Resource policies,
procedures, prescripts, HR audit. compliance prescripts, management of the
Approved Post Lists (APL), establishment. control, Human Resource
Development and Labour Relations. Good communication skills (written and
verbal). Strong managerial and supervisory skills. Excellent computer skills in
MS Office packages.
DUTIES : Facilitate, co-ordinate and manage HR Planning, Recruitment and Selection,
Establishment Control, Staff Performance Management System and Human
Resource Administration. Implement systems and strategies to ensure
effective and efficient Quality and Risk Management in the Human Resource
Department. Facilitate compliance with the Auditor-General’s requirements
and HR audit reports and ensure that sample testing is performed and reported
on that is in line with the HR Compliance Monitoring Instrument (HR CMI) and
HR Audit Action Plan (HR AAP). Manage Human Resource Development and
the implementation of HRD policies, prescripts and Institutional Workplace
Skills Plans. Manage sound Labour Relations and provide expert advice and
guidance to Management and staff. Management and development of staff in
the Human Resource Component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Kau Tel No: (044) 802-4533
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Suitable
candidates may be subjected to a competency assessment. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within Rural Health
Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/207 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE AND SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in a financial management and/or
accounting field as well as supply chain management. Appropriate managerial
and/or supervisory experience. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge
and understanding of the treasury regulations, Public Finance Management
Act requirements and the Accounting Officers Systems. High level of computer
literacy (Microsoft Office package, Integrated Procurement System, Basic
Accounting System and LOGIS) Strong people management skills, analytical
thinking, problem-solving, decision-making and ability to work in a multi-
disciplinary team. Strong technical financial skills, including report-writing.
DUTIES : Manage overall performance of Finance and Supply Chain Management.
Coordinate processes to ensure compliance with supply chain policies, the
PFMA and regulations, as well as Treasury Instructions to achieve effective
and efficient corporate governance. Analyse, interpret and report on relevant
financial and performance data on Finance and SCM for various FBUs,
including management. Accurate and timeous preparation of reports and
compilation of Annual and Interim Financial statements. Monitor overall
hospital budget and expenditure patterns and projections. Manage all People
Management related functions within the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Kau Tel No: (044) 802-4533
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical and/or competency test.
151
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/208 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPORT SERVICES
Directorate: People Development
Sub-directorate: Generic People Development & Training
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum education qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Nursing Information
Management System (NIMS). Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Driver’s
Licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Extensive knowledge of
procedures and processes related to Nursing Information Management
System. Appropriate knowledge of Treasury Regulations and Contract
Management and PFMA. Appropriate knowledge of drawing up various
documents, reports pertaining to nursing information management. Relevant
knowledge in People & Financial Management. Sound interpersonal and
communication skills, both written and verbal. Computer skills (MS Office,
Excel and Word). Training in NIMS and desktop support.
DUTIES : Implement operational plans for Nursing Information Management System
(NIMS) to support nursing practice. Oversee the development and execution
of nursing policies with specific reference to Nursing. Information Management
System. Manage and Coordinate Nursing Information Management System
(NIMS). Provide support and advice to management as NIMS advisor. Identify,
coordinate and monitor resources (People and Financial) in accordance with
relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Dr V Makie Tel No: (021) 831-5835
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/209 : INDUSTRIAL TECHNICIAN: UNIT HEAD – CLINICAL ENGINEERING
(OPTICS WORKSHOPS)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: National Diploma in Electrical Engineering
(T; S or N stream), or registration as an Engineering Technician in terms of the
Engineering Profession of South Africa Act (Act 46 of 2000). Experience:
Appropriate experience after qualification on optical medical equipment
repairs, especially surgical and laboratory microscopes. Appropriate
experience with the following equipment: light sources, laser, ENT and various
types of scopes (gastro-, colono-, cysto and brongioscopes, etc. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of health technology principles and Excellent
ability to do fault finding on medical equipment. Computer literacy (i.e. MS
Word, Excel). Ability to compile technical specifications for medical equipment
and assist with the tender process.
DUTIES : Carry out advanced maintenance, repairs, calibration, modifications and
installations of medical (Optical) equipment and train junior technicians and
users on equipment. Ensuring that the equipment meets legal and safety
requirements of the manufacturers and statutory bodies. Liaise with hospital
and private sector staff and reports to the Head of Clinical engineering. Perform
all administrative functions as required by the Clinical Engineering Department,
managers and health Technology prescripts while ensuring compliance with
the Occupational Health and Safety Act of 1993.
ENQUIRIES : Mr LV Niekerk Tel No: (021) 404-4040
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a competency test on day of interview. The pool
of applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
152
POST 38/210 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : Caledon Hospital, Theewaterskloof Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an
Occupational Therapist. Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
an Occupational Therapist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as
Occupational Therapist with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees.
One-year relevant experience after registration as Occupational Therapist with
the HPCSA in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required
to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
an Occupational Therapist in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of
11 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as an
Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
an Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness
to travel in the sub-district/ district to consult clients and attend meetings and
training sessions. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal,
planning and organisational skills, and computer literacy (MS Office).
Knowledge of applicable health legislation, relevant acts and policies. Ability to
adapt and work efficiently in a resource-constrained environment and as part
of a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Clinical Occupational therapy services at health facility level, district hospital
and PHC facilities. Training of self and other staff members. Render
community-based occupational therapy service. Administrative duties,
complete documentation of all services rendered. Provide health
promotion/training and community service interventions. Render mobility
assistive device service.
ENQUIRIES : Dr RJ Liebenberg Tel No: (028) 212-1070
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be required to undergo a competency assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within the Overberg District, for a period of 3 months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/211 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT
West Coast District
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Vredendal Hospital, Matzikama Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three years National Diploma /
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in the field of Human Resource
Management. Appropriate experience in the PERSAL system. Inherent
153
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to drive
between the various PHC Clinics in the sub district if required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
GroupWise and PERSAL). Ability to provide training. Good interpersonal,
communication, presentation and writing skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for co-ordination, supervision and control of components as well
as support to supervisor. Assist with all transversal personnel practices,
including all employment practices, conditions of service and terminations,
SPMS and establishment within the Sub-district. Responsible for the Human
Resource Development function within the Sub-district which includes the
compiling of the workplace skills plan, training statistics and relevant
administrative duties regarding Human Resource Development. Render
support, training and advisory service with regard to personnel administration
and human resource management, as well as monitoring of compliance.
Handle Labour Relation issues which include grievances, dispute resolutions,
IMLC matters and the capturing of Labour Relation information on PERSAL
with regard to human resource matters. Coordinate the recruitment and
selection process.
ENQUIRIES : Mr WA Phillipus Tel No: (023) 316-9601
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/212 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE
West Coast District
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Vredendal Hospital, Matzikama Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year Diploma/Degree in
Financial Management. Experience: Appropriate and proven experience in
Finance/Revenue and Supply Chain Management with sound knowledge of all
financial systems: BAS, LOGIS. Appropriate supervisory experience. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to
travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge of relevant
financial prescripts, departmental policies, delegations and procedures. An
aptitude for working with financial figures and good organisational and
leadership skills with good interpersonal relations. Extensive knowledge and
practical experience in Basic Accounting System (BAS), LOGIS and Electronic
Procurement Solutions (EPS) as well as Microsoft Office.
DUTIES : Manage all requirements in respect of Financial Administration for the Hospital
and Sub-district. Responsible for overall management for all Supply Chain
Management functions and Asset administration. Effective management of the
Revenue and Admissions Sections. Support to Supervisor. Manage all People
Management related functions allocated to the post of SAO within the SCM
and Finance components.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CA Davids Tel No: (027) 213-2038/6
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/213 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PEOPLE MANAGEMENT (PAYROLL
AND SERVICE BENEFITS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate Human Resource Administration, in all
aspects of personnel and salary administration. Appropriate experience in the
PERSAL system. Appropriate supervisory experience. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of relevant Legislation. Working knowledge of
all aspects regarding Human Resources. -Good interpersonal and conflict
resolution skills. Ability to function independently and within a team context.
Leadership, organization, creative problem-solving and decision-making skills.
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and PERSAL).
154
DUTIES : Coordinate, implement and monitor the relevant policies, procedures,
prescripts regarding personnel, salary, commuted overtime, leave and
administration in general as applicable in a staff office. Management of
PERSAL functions. Ensure efficient and effective quality and risk management
in HR, including audit compliance, databases and reports. Interpret and
implement policies, regulations and procedures and provide effective and
efficient assistance and support to clients, personnel, management and
supervisors. Provide in-service training of personnel within the relevant section.
Manage and supervise the general staff office with a very high workload, which
are responsible for all personnel and related matters. Provide support in the
administration processes of E-Disclosure, ORW Declarations. Application of
the OSD regulations and prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr CD Wehr Tel No: (021) 404-2306
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a competency test. The pool of applications
will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/214 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE (PATIENT
ADMINISTRATION)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Service
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Mowbray Maternity Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Information Management,
Patient Administration Reception and Medical Records Management.
Appropriate supervision experience. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Appropriate knowledge and experience of information systems such as HIS,
CLINICOM, SINJANI, JAC, including the Uniform Patient Fee Schedule
(UPFS), Hospital Fees Memorandum Chapter 18. Computer literacy. Good
interpersonal relations and communication skills. Leadership skills.
DUTIES : Overall management and supervision of Information Management, Patient
Administration Reception and Medical Records Components. Monitor, control,
analyse, interpret and report monthly statistics of the hospital. Maintain patient
information systems and data quality. Ensure training and competency for all
relevant hospital staff on Information and Patient Administration systems.
Maintain effective Medical Records and Registry. Ensure compliance to audit
requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Swanepoel Tel No: (021) 659-5567
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for other posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/215 : SOCIAL WORKER GRADE 1 TO 4 (SOCIAL SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R325 200 per annum
Grade 2: R397 119 per annum
Grade 3: R477 564 per annum
Grade 4: R585 441 per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification as a Social Worker
that allows for registration with the South African Council for Social Service
Professionals (SACSSP). Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
155
(SACSSP) as Social Worker. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience in social work after
registration as a Social Worker with the SACSSP. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate experience in social work after registration as a Social
Worker with the SACSSP. Grade 4: A minimum of 30 years appropriate
experience in social work after registration as a social worker with the SACSSP.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (Microsoft Office,
Clinicom). Appropriate social work experience in psychiatry, Intellectual
Disability, inpatient and outpatient social work services.
DUTIES : Conduct psycho-social assessments of mental health care users. Provide
users and family members with psycho-educational services with regards to
mental health diagnosis, recovery principles, addiction and dual diagnosis.
Address social issues that might impede the user’s ability to recover timeously
with the MDT. Contribute to well-developed exit plans for users. Linking of high-
risk users and families to relevant support structures in the community.
Recording of user information in accordance with relevant professional, and
legal guidelines. Information management: Collecting statistical and
operational data. Quality service outputs through participation in continued
professional development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mfiki Tel No: (021) 370-1403
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment. “Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or
before the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status”. The pool of applicants will be considered for vacancies
within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months
from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/216 : INDUSTRIAL TECHNICIAN (CLINICAL ENGINEERING: ELECTRONICS
WORKSHOP)
Directorate: Health Technology
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (Clinical Engineering, Goodwood)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: National Diploma in Electrical (LC)
Engineering (T; S or N stream), or National Diploma in Mechatronics, or
registration as an Engineering Technician in terms of the Engineering
Profession of South Africa Act (Act 46 of 2000). Experience: Appropriate
experience after qualification with repairs, maintenance and installation of
electronic or related medical equipment. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
driver’s licence (Code B/EB) and willing to travel throughout the Western Cape.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Proven knowledge of health technology
principles. Ability to compile technical specifications for medical equipment.
Excellent ability to do fault finding on equipment. Good written and verbal skills.
Proven experience computer literacy (i.e. MS Word, Excel). Product specific
technical training.
DUTIES : Carry out advanced maintenance, repairs, calibration, modifications and
installations of medical (electronic) equipment. Train junior technicians and
users on equipment. Ensuring that the equipment meets legal and safety
requirements of the manufacturers and statutory bodies. Perform all
administrative functions as required by the Clinical Engineering Department,
managers and health. Technology prescripts while ensuring compliance with
the Occupational Health and Safety Act of 1993. Liaison with hospital and
private sector staff while reporting to the manager of the relevant workshop.
Manage the workshop in the absence of supervisor in charge of relevant
workshop and be willing to work within all Clinical Engineering disciplines.
156
Advanced knowledge of managing, planning and organizing maintenance
schedules.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Padayachee Tel No: (021) 590-5008
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a competency test on day of interview and will
also need to sign a form allowing background, criminal, qualification, credit and
driver's license verification.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/217 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
(WAREHOUSE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Metro TB Hospital Complex (Brooklyn Chest Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accountancy as a passed subject or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
supply chain management (warehouse and procurement) Appropriate
supervisory experience. Appropriate working experience on Logis system.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), National and Provincial Treasury Regulations,
Accounting Officer’s System of the Department of Health. Computer literacy
(MS Office)
DUTIES : Effective and efficient warehouse management including management of the
interim and annual financial stock take. Demand and acquisition management
of goods related to the warehouse. Ensure audit compliance, prepare, provide
feedback and initiate actions plans of the monthly compliance audits related to
stock management. Monthly warehouse reporting and assistance to
supervisor. Overall supervision and human resource management of the
warehouse.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Silwanyana Tel No: (021) 508-7451
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subject to a written and oral assessment. The pool of
applicants will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the
job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same
as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/218 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
West Coast District
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Vredendal Hospital, Matzikama Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Human Resources (i.e. Salary
Administration, Service Conditions, Personnel Management, PERSAL).
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s license. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Appropriate knowledge of Recruitment and Selection.
Appropriate knowledge of People Management related policies and
procedures in the Public Service. Strong analytical and strategic thinking
abilities. Computer skills in MS Office (i.e. Word, Excel, PowerPoint and
Outlook). Good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Payroll Administration: Personnel Provisioning and Service Terminations, i.e.
processing of appointments and ensuring the correct administration process
for service terminations. Ensuring the correct processing of Service Benefits
i.e. Housing benefit, leave administration, general service benefits and
ensuring effective human resource management systems and practices are in
place. Provide an effective general and transversal employment practices
157
service. Monitoring, evaluation and correction of audit reports. Manage and
control of subordinates and support to supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr WA Phillipus Tel No: (027) 213-2039
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/219 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES (TRANSPORT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital (Northern/Tygerberg Sub-structure Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in the procedures and prescripts in
Government Transport and Contract Management. Inherent requirements of
the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to work overtime.
Willingness to travel within the Sub-structure. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good computer skills (MS Office, Excel and PowerPoint).
Knowledge of Human Resource Management, Labour legislation and sound
knowledge of Transport Circular 4 of 2020 and Government Motor Transport
Handbook. Good interpersonal communication skills, organizational skills and
the ability to function under pressure and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Coordinate and supervise the operations and administrative service of the
Transport Section. Provide a support function to the supervisor regarding
prevention and misuse of Government Motor Transport and fraud investigation,
ensure that vehicles are maintained (roadworthy), clean, regularly serviced and
inspected). Compiling and submitting monthly reports for GG-vehicles and
verifying GG-leases for Metro institutions, analyzing tracking reports to identify,
confirm report possible fraud and misuse cases. Administer and monitor
service contracts (e.g., security, waste, gardening, pest control), ensuring
compliance and applying penalties for non-performance. Provide general
administrative support, attend meetings, conduct site visits, and respond to
internal and external queries. Supervision of staff, training of staff, manage
leave and performance, and ensure compliance with HR policies and
disciplinary procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Zoutman Tel No: (021) 815-8874
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/220 : FOOD SERVICES MANAGER
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: A three-year diploma/degree or equivalent
in Food Service or Hospitality Management. Experience: Appropriate
experience in a Food Services or Hospitality environment. Appropriate
supervisory experience. Inherent requirements of the job: The Food Services
Component renders a 7- day week function. The successful candidate will be
required to work shifts and weekends. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel). Conversant with the Labour Relations
Act, Food Services Policies and the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
Manage and empowering a very large staff team, drawing up and implementing
training schedules.
DUTIES : Operationally manage the food preparation, distribution and serving of meals
in the Food Services Department. Responsible for hygiene and safety
standards. Effective utilisation of the Food Service team including equipment
and utensils. Ordering of food consumables and Vendor Contract
Management. Enact Human Resource Management when required, inclusive
of leave, disciplinary code of conduct, time keeping, filling of vacant posts in
the Department etc. Manage financial resources inclusive of the food costing
and weekly statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R de Jager Tel No: (021) 404-2263
158
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post. -Shortlisted candidates may be subjected to a practical
test as part of the recruitment process.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/221 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Carnation Ward (based at Mitchells Plain District Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse.
Registration with the Professions Council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the
job: Ability and willingness to work shifts, weekends, public holidays and night
duty relief and overtime should the need arises. Ability to work under pressure
and in a multi-disciplinary team context. Willingness to rotate between EC hub
and Overnight ward. Willingness to assist at Mitchell’s Plain District Hospital
when need arises. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS
Word, Excel). Ability to work independently and in a multi-disciplinary team.
Knowledge of Community Oriented Primary care. Conflict management,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Ability to facilitate training.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of quality
comprehensive nursing care in a hospital setting. Maintain ethical practice
within legal and regulatory frameworks. Maintain a constructive working
relationship with all relevant stakeholders. Utilize human, material and physical
resources efficiently and effectively. Participate in training programmes and
research activities. Maintain workplace disciplinary of sub-ordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Geswindt Tel No: (021) 377-4410
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status). The pool of applications will be considered for
vacancies within Mitchell’s Plain Hospital, for a period of three months from the
date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/222 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL) (PALLIATIVE CARE)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Vredendal Hospital, Matzikama Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and Midwife. Registration
159
with the Professions Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration at
SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license and willingness to travel across the Sub-
district. Willingness to complete the online course in Palliative Care once
appointed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal, planning,
and organisational skills. Computer literacy (MS Office).
DUTIES : Direct client care through provision of optimal, holistic nursing care.
Stakeholder engagement. Education and training. Administration and Service
delivery design and support. Monitoring and Evaluation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr LK Wagenaar Tel No: (027) 213-2039
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Matzikama Sub-district, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/223 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: REGISTRY (MEDICAL RECORDS)
West Coast District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Swartland Hospital, Swartland Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in medical records and Admissions
department within a hospital environment. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work shift and overtime when required. Must be willing to relief
personnel. Ability to do physical hard work. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good interpersonal communication. Ability to function in a group. Computer
literacy (Word and excel and outlook).
DUTIES : Responsible for folder management: Daily filling of folders, ensure to merge
duplicate folders. Medical records tracking. Handle request for folders from
various sections. Archiving inactive folders. Folder disposal according to
relevant acts prescripts. Register patients and asses’ patients according to
Hospital Memorandum 18 and UPFS manual. Maintain patient appointment
system.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Ratshana Tel No: (022) 487-9341
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/224 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE (BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
a Finance Department. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Assets
and Liabilities accounts. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act.
160
Knowledge of BAS and knowledge of PERSAL. Good communication skills
(verbal and written). Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel).
DUTIES : Filing of documentation. Render clerical assistance to the Senior Admin Officer
in the Finance Control section. Control, manage and clear various Assets and
Liabilities accounts. Allocate Cash Receipts. Capture BAS payments, Journal
entries and Debt take on’s.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Munnik Tel No: (021) 404-2214
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical assessment. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/225 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (WARDS)
West Coast District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Vredendal Hospital, Matzikama Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in administration in a health-related
environment. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to relieve other Ward
Clerks. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and
organisational skills. Computer literacy (MS Office). Procurement experience
to facilitate and maintain adequate stock and equipment levels. Excellent
verbal and written communication skills. Working knowledge of the Clinicom
and LOGIS systems.
DUTIES : Administrative functions within the Ward. Duties regarding the availability of
adequate stock (consumables) in the nursing unit. Data collection. Support to
the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr LK Wagenaar Tel No: (027) 213-2038
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. No payment of any kind is
required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/226 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (STORES)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focus on the key
performance areas of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in stock
handling. Appropriate work experience on the LOGIS system. Appropriate
experience in a Supply Chain management environment and/or within Health
Sector Commodities. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal
and communication skills. Ability to communicate effectively (verbal and
written). Ability to work independently and in a team. Computer literacy (i.e. MS
Word, Excel, Power point and Outlook). Sound communication, organizational
and interpersonal skills. Appropriate Knowledge of Supply Chain Management
processes, PFMA and the Accounting Officers System. Appropriate Knowledge
of LOGIS, EPS and ESL.
DUTIES : Receiving, packing, unpacking, storage and issuing stock according to
standards. Safe keeping of equipment and stock (consumables and inventory)
in the stores. Ensure effective Stock Control procedures are maintained and
enforced. Keep the store neat, tidy and clean to comply with safety regulations.
Completion and capturing of requisitions, receipt voucher, issue voucher on
LOGIS and file for audit purposes. Ensure accurate stock and compliance
controls i.e. applying FIFO principle, etc. Maintain stock levels and ordering
stock i.e. completion of PA, etc. Ensure Inventory stock takes and regular spot
161
checks. Demand and acquisition management of goods and services.
Advertising requests on the EPS and conducting SCM evaluations according
to SCM prescripts. Prepare procurement batches for the Quotation committee.
Placing orders with suppliers and maintaining accurate filing systems.
Emergency procurement process. Infrastructure related (16B) procurement.
Address supplier and user queries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Morrie Tel No: (021) 860 2760 or email:
Bjorly.Morrie@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/227 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE/ADMIN (FINANCE
INCOME/ADMISSIONS)
West Coast District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Vredendal Hospital, Matzikama Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
a hospital and patient fees environment. Inherent requirement of the job:
Willingness to work overtime and as reliever for the Admissions section. Valid
(Code B/EB) drivers’ license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
interpersonal and organisational skills, and computer literacy (MS Office).
Good verbal and written communication skills. Knowledge of Uniform Patient
Fees Schedule (UPFS), Hospital Memorandum 18 and Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Knowledge of Clinicom and AR systems.
DUTIES : Rendering of billing services to in-patients - control the correctness of the
hospital patient bills, medical aids, road accident fund and privately funded
patients. Rendering of billing services to out-patients. Follow-up procedures
and release of invoices. Patient administration support services, including the
printing of reports to identify all State Departments, WCA, RAF, H2, H3,
Medical Aid and Private Doctor out-patients admitted and discharged. Liaise
with relevant role players in matters relating to Patient Administration, Hospital
Fees, and Case Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CA Davids Tel No: (027) 213-2038
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/228 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate PERSAL experience. Appropriate Human Resource
Management experience. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy
(MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Good communication and interpersonal
skills. Ability to function as a team player, with and without supervision.
Exercise good judgment in safeguarding confidential or sensitive information.
Ability to function in a stressful environment, cope with a heavy workload and
meet deadlines. Appropriate planning, prioritization, organization and
administrative skills. Knowledge of People Management Legislation and
Policies in the Public Service.
DUTIES : Responsible for appointments, service terminations, promotions, translations
in rank and transfers of personnel on the PERSAL System. Handle all aspects
pertaining to Human Resource Management, i.e. salary matters, leave,
housing allowances and pension matters. Handle all personnel queries and
correspondence. Audit personnel and leave folders. File all personnel related
documents.
162
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Wyngaard Tel No: (021) 402-6521
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of 3 months from the date of the advert, provided that the
job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same
as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/229 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (X2 POSTS)
Wes Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Klawer Clinic (1 post)
Doringbaai Satellite Clinic, Lutzville (1 post)
Matzikama Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Staff Nurse. Registration with the Professions Council: Registration
with the South African Nursing Council as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1:
None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience
in nursing after registration at SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of
20 years appropriate/ recognizable experience in nursing after registration with
the SANC as Staff Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to travel
to and support other Clinics in the Sub-district when needed and willing to work
on the mobile health clinic bus. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
function/make decisions independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team.
Good communication skills and interpersonal relationships. Basic computer
skills in MS Word and Outlook. Knowledge of relevant nursing legislation,
policies and protocols of the Department of Health, Western Cape.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care to all patients on PHC
level. Provide basic clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and
financial resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development. Effective functioning within the multi-disciplinary team.
ENQUIRIES : Dr JE Eygelaar Tel No: (027) 213-4070
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Matzikama Sub-District, for a period of
three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/230 : FOREMAN: GROUND SERVICES
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education & Training Certificate
(GETC) / Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in grounds.
Inherent requirement of the job: Performing strenuous tasks, including heavy
lifting and being on foot for extended periods. Ability to work in extreme weather
conditions. A valid driver’s licence (B/EB). Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of petrol- and diesel-powered equipment, as well as a broad range
163
of gardening tools. Proficient in the operation of irrigation systems and skilled
in routine maintenance of gardening equipment. Understanding of Health &
Safety regulations relevant to groundskeeping. Good organisational and
planning skills. Demonstrated commitment to service excellence. Computer
literacy (MS Office: Word & Excel & Outlook).
DUTIES : Plan, coordinate and oversee all ground-related tasks, ensuring efficient and
high quality service delivery. Supervise and manage grounds personnel,
including performance management, conflict management and disciplinary
processes. Training of staff in proper procedures using gardening and other
related tools and equipment. Provide support to Supervisor and assist with
operational needs as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms GP Storm Tel No: (021) 860-2844
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/231 : HOUSEKEEPING SUPERVISOR (SUPPORT SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std7). Experience: Appropriate experience as a supervisor.
Appropriate experience in a Linen Bank environment. Appropriate experience
in the management of a Residence. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) drivers’ licence with PDP. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Applied knowledge of the linen management process (clean, soiled, mending,
condemning of linen). Applied knowledge of the operational management of a
Residence. Applied knowledge of the issuing and condemning of uniforms for
staff. Computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel, Outlook).
DUTIES : Effective management of linen services (soiled, clean, infected, infested).
Effective management of condemned and mending of linen. Effective
management of stock control and issuing of uniforms to staff. Effective
management of a Residence. Effective supervision of staff in the Linen Bank
and Residence.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A van Blerk Tel No: (044) 802-4497
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required is required when applying for this post.
Shortlisted candidates may be subjected to a practical test. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within George Regional
Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/232 : HOUSEKEEPING SUPERVISOR
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Michael Mapongwana CDC, Khayelitsha Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9/Std 7.Experience: Appropriate experience as a cleaner in a
Health Facility. Experience with the use of cleaning equipment, cleaning
materials and cleaning detergents. Inherent requirement of the job: Must be
willing to work night shift and extended hours. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Sound interpersonal and organising skills. Knowledge of
the disciplinary code and procedure for the Public Service. Appropriate
recognisable supervisory housekeeping experience in rendering a support
function to management. Good verbal and written communication skills. Good
counselling, decision-making and problem-solving skills. Knowledge of
infection control, occupational health and safety.
DUTIES : Perform effective supervision of routine cleaning in and around the building,
offices and dissection areas by utilising the available resources. Effectively
manage and utilise physical and financial resources. Effectively support the
supervisor by establishing a hygienic environment.
164
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Jacobs Tel No: (021) 363-2814
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Metro Health Services, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/233 : HOUSEKEEPING SUPERVISOR
West Coast District
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Vredendal Hospital, Matzikama Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Educational and Training
Certificate (GETC)/Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate cleaning, linen
and housekeeping experience in a hospital environment. Inherent requirement
of the job: Willingness to work shifts, weekends and public holidays. Overtime
and relief work in other wards to ensure effective provision of services.
Physically fit and able to lift items. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Proper
working knowledge of all cleaning and housekeeping policies, protocols,
procedures and good work ethics. Good interpersonal, organising and
decision-making skills. Knowledge of safety and hygiene standards.
Knowledge of inventory/stock control. Ability to work in a team and
independently. Computer literacy (Microsoft Word and Excel).
DUTIES : Maintain a high standard of cleanliness and hygiene within the hospital
ward/department. Effective management and utilization of physical and
financial resources. Support, guide and direct personnel under his/her
supervision. Effective communication, using the correct channels of
communication.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Wagenaar Tel No: (027) 213-2035
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/234 : LAUNDRY SUPERVISOR
West Coast District
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Vredendal Hospital, Matzikama Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Educational and Training
Certificate (GETC)/Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in
laundry services in a hospital environment. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to do manual labor (heavy linen bags) and assist in other
departments when required. Able to handle heavily soiled linen containing
human excretions and blood. Physically fit and able to lift heavy items.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Proper working knowledge of all
laundry/linen policies, protocols, procedures and good work ethics. Good
interpersonal, organising and decision-making skills. Knowledge of
inventory/stock control. Ability to work in a team and independently. Computer
literacy (Microsoft Word and Excel). Good communication skills.
DUTIES : Supervise and evaluate laundry staff, ensure staff perform optimally and
perform routine inspections to ensure staff adheres to procedures. Compile
and submit monthly statistics and schedule maintenance of equipment.
Perform stock taking and record keeping of linen/clothing. Responsible for
record-keeping and compilation of reports. Coordination of the provision of
effective training appropriate to service delivery. Effectively manage the
utilisation and supervision of resources as well as related HR matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Snell Tel No: (027) 213-2035
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test.
165
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/235 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3
Central Karoo District
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Nelspoort Hospital
REQUIREMENT : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1:
None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience
in nursing after registration as Nursing Assistant with the SANC. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Nursing Assistant with the SANC. Inherent requirements of the
job: Willing to work shifts, day and night duty and overtime. Willingness to rotate
to other wards in the facility and to work at the clinics in the Sub-district when
needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills. Self-
discipline and motivation.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living which include patient hygiene,
nutritional status, mobility and elimination needs. Provide elementary clinical
nursing care. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional growth,
ethical standards and self-development. Record keeping.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Frieslaar Tel No: (023) 416-1600
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Central Karoo District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/236 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Registration
with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty,
weekends, and public holidays to meet the operational requirements. Must be
prepared to assist in all departments according to operational requirements.
Experience: Grade 1: None Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/
recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as a
Nursing Assistant. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Effective communication
and Interpersonal skills. Appropriate knowledge and experience of basic
nursing care in a hospital setting.
DUTIES : Provide elementary clinical nursing care. Assist patients with activities of daily
living which includes patient hygiene, provide nutrition, assist with mobility, and
elimination processes. Maintaining professional growth, Ethical standards, and
166
self–development. Provide ongoing health education to patient and next of kin.
Record Keeping.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Wiener Tel No: (021) 503 5000 ext. 5030
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates will be subjected to a written and oral assessment. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a
period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/237 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (BRACKENGATE TCF NURSING
SERVICES) (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Brackengate Transitional Care Facility
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with the Professions Council:
Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in
nursing after registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years appropriate/ recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty, weekends, and public
holidays to meet the operational requirements. Must be prepared to assist in
all departments according to operational requirements. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Effective communication skills. Practical knowledge and
experience of basic nursing care in a hospital setting. Interpersonal skills.
Ability to work in a multi-disciplinary team. Enhance patient care through the
implementation of SOPs, policies and guidelines. Appropriate experience in a
hospital setting.
DUTIES : Provide quality basic nursing care. Provide elementary clinical nursing care.
Assist patients with activities of daily living which include Patient Hygiene,
Nutritional Status, mobility, and elimination needs. Maintaining professional
growth, Ethical standards, and self–development. Provide ongoing health
education to patients and next of kin. Record Keeping. -Effective utilization of
physical and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Booysen Tel No: (021) 834-5832
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
“Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.”
This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for a change in registration status). The
pool of applicants will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.
167
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/238 : PRINCIPAL PORTER
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC) / Grade 9 / STD7.Experience: Appropriate supervisory experience of
staff and mortuary administration. Inherent requirements of the job: A Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to work night shifts, public holidays,
weekends, overtime and be on standby. Competencies (knowledge/ skills):
Computer skills (MS Office, Excel and Word). Knowledge of applicable death
administration legislations and relevant policies. Knowledge of infection
prevention and control.
DUTIES : Responsible for overall supervision and management of Porters. Management
of mortuary equipment, assets and consumables. Ensure effective and efficient
mortuary administration and handling of bodies. To provide an effective and
efficient support to Support Services Managers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Basson Tel No: (021) 918-1335
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/ written and oral assessment. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Director Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/239 : SECURITY OFFCER (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC) /Grade 9 (Std 7). Registration with the Professions Council:
Candidates have to be registered as a Security Officer Grade C or higher with
the Security Board in terms of the Security Industry Regulatory Authority Act
PSIRA. Experience: Appropriate experience. Inherent requirements of the job:
To work shifts including weekends, public holidays. Perform Standby duties.
Must have a valid driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
interpersonal and communication skills. Be responsible and diligent and ability
to work under pressure and the ability to work in a team as well as
independently and change to any shift when required. Must be physically fit
Knowledge of security related prescripts, regulations and procedures as well
as Basic knowledge of the Occupational Health & Safety Act.
DUTIES : Ensure access/egress control, patrolling of buildings, parking areas and
perimeter fencing. Investigation of crimes, incidents and security breaches and
taking and writing of statements and reports. Controlling of all hospital keys.
Supervise outsource security officers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Ndzuzo Tel No: (021) 404-3111
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post. -Shortlisted candidates may be subjected to a practical
test as part of the recruitment process.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/240 : FOOD SERVICES AID (SUPPORT SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
168
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in a large-scale food service unit, which includes the
operating of large-scale kitchen equipment as well as the preparation of normal
and therapeutic diets. Inherent requirements of the job: Ability to do physical
tasks and operate heavy-duty kitchen and cleaning equipment. Ability to work
with cleaning materials, do high-dusting and lifting of heavy equipment and
supplies. Ability to be on your feet for a period of 12 hours per day. Willingness
to work shifts during the day, weekends, public holidays and overtime if
requested. Competencies (knowledge/skills): The ability to prepare meals
according to standardized recipes, as well as safely and correctly handle
industrial equipment. Basic knowledge of the food service hygiene and safety
principles. Conflict management.
DUTIES : Perform all tasks emanating from the pre-preparation and production of all full
and therapeutic diets. Perform all tasks emanating from the dishing, distribution
and serving food to patients at various wards. Clean and maintain all areas,
utensils and equipment in the food service unit and maintain safety and
hygiene standards. Assist with the receipt, safe storage and issuing of food
provisions and other products. Assist with the informal in-service training of
new employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Greyling Tel No: (044) 802-4423
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subject to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within George Regional Hospital for a
period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/241 : DRIVER (LIGHT DUTY VEHICLE)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience as a driver using GG vehicles. Inherent requirements
of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) drivers’ licence with PDP. Willingness to perform
standby and overtime to meet the operational requirements. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Applied knowledge of the Transport Handbook 1 of 2019.
Computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel, Outlook).
DUTIES : Effective transport of official passengers, post, packages, equipment and
specimens. Effective transport of blood to and from the blood bank.
Maintenance of GG vehicles. Support to supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Van Blerk Tel No: (044) 802-4497
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required is required when applying for this post.
Shortlisted candidates may be subjected to a practical test. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within George Regional
Hospital for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/242 : DRIVER (LIGHT DUTY VEHICLE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Gustrouw/Rusthof CHC, Khayelitsha Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid code (B/EB)
driver’s license. Valid Public Driving Permit (PDP). Willingness to work
overtime and perform relief duties. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
verbal and written and communication skills. The ability to accept
accountability, responsibility to work independently and good interpersonal
skills. Knowledge of Transport Regulations and Circular no 4 of 2000.
169
Knowledge of routine, maintenance, Inspections for defects on vehicles and
safe driving skills. Sober habits and physical fit to lift and load heavy items.
Ability to read and comprehend road directions and traffic signs.
DUTIES : Ensure an efficient and effective transport service. Ensuring the accurate
completion of logbooks. Adhere to departmental codes and procedures.
Conduct routine maintenance, inspecting GG vehicles and timely reporting of
defects. Ensure an effective daily transport administration and support to
Supervisor. Ensure vehicles and garage areas are kept clean and tidy. Perform
administrative and relieve duties when required or necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Salie Tel No: (021) 845-8384
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of the
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/243 : DRIVER (LIGHT DUTY VEHICLE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic reading, writing and numerical skills. Experience:
Appropriate driving experience. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s license. A valid PDP. Will be expected to perform after hours
standby duties. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Communication skills.
Knowledge of Transport Regulations. The ability to accept accountability and
responsibility and to work independently.
DUTIES : Transport official passengers, post, packages and equipment. Effective
delivery and collection of all blood products. Maintenance PA safety and
cleaning of Government Vehicles. Delivery of medication, goods and
equipment within the PGWC. Routine inspection of vehicles and reporting of
defects. Routine administration. Relieve duties and standby duties
ENQUIRIES : Ms J van der Riel Tel No: (021) 799-1270
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a practical assessment. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the department, for a period of three months
from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
POST 38/244 : MESSENGER
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience: Appropriate
messenger and registry experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Ability to
pick up heavy bags filled with post and goods. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Must be a dedicated, a team player, innovative, self-
motivated and have good memory skills. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Planning, organising and client orientation skills.
DUTIES : Collecting, delivering and distributing all files, posts and correspondence to and
from various departments and wards. Making photocopies for all departments
in bulk. Maintain a high standard of cleanliness, hygiene and safe environment.
Provide a supporting service to the supervisor and assist with operational
needs as required. Handle all documentation confidentially. Effective and
efficiently manage postal services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms GP Storm Tel No: (021) 860-2844
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 31 October 2025
170
DEPARTMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
Application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 38/245 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MOVABLE ASSET MANAGEMENT 2 REF NO: DOI
136/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3 year B-Degree/Advance Diploma (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years related financial/asset management
experience at supervisory/management level. Competencies: Knowledge and
understanding of the following: Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and
best practices that have a bearing on the line functions; Information systems
that aid in the management of knowledge and information pertaining to the line
function; Project management; Operational management practices;
Procurement and tendering processes; Knowledge and understanding of
policy development, and operational management, monitoring and review
processes; Modern systems of governance and administration; Public service
procedures, processes and systems; Regional and local political, economic
and social affairs impacting on the provincial government of the Western Cape;
Constitutional, legal and institutional arrangements governing the South
African public sector; Public finance, human resources and discourse
management processes; Public Finance Management Act, National and
Provincial Treasury Regulations, other financial policies, prescripts, directives
and collective agreements; Functioning of the province and the activities of
sister departments/related functional areas; Policies of the government of the
day; Labour Relations legislation and regulations; Performance management
in general. Skills in the following: Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy;
Language skills; Project Management; Accounting, Finance and Audit;
Economic, Financial and Statistical Analysis.
DUTIES : Maintenance of movable assets; Facilitate and manage the safeguarding of
assets; Handle disposals of movable assets; Plan and manage the work of and
account for the overall performance of the Sub directorate; People
Management; Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Pauline van der Merwe Tel No: (021) 483 8915
POST 38/246 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION LEVEL): ROAD SYSTEM
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DOI 28/2025 R1 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade A: R391 671 per annum
Grade C: R586 665 per annum
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma in Civil Engineering or relevant
qualification; Compulsory registration with the Engineering Council of South
Africa (ECSA) as an Engineering Technician; A minimum of 3 years relevant
post qualification technical (Civil engineering) experience; A valid driving
license (Code B or higher). Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Geotechnical and pavement design of roads; Road infrastructure material;
Technical support service knowledge in respect of material quality control and
management for road and bridge construction; Legal compliance; As-built and
171
standard specifications; Ability to solve broadly defined technological
challenges through application of proven techniques and procedures;
Communication (written and verbal); Interpersonal skills; People Management;
Planning and organising; Record keeping; Problem solving; Change
management.
DUTIES : Render technical services in line with qualification; Assist engineers,
technologists and associates in the field; Provide and consolidate inputs to the
technical / engineering operational plan; Promote safety in line with statutory
and regulatory requirements; Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard
drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology and produce technical
designs with specifications and submit for evaluation and approval by the
relevant authority; Compile and submit reports as required; Develop,
implement and maintain system databases; Liaise with relevant stakeholders
on engineering related matters; The following will be advantageous: Working
knowledge or experience in the condition assessments of surfaced and gravel
roads; Efficient skills in report writing and presenting; Willing to travel to sites
and work away from home; Efficient computer literacy and good working
knowledge of MS Office suite.
ENQUIRIES : Mr NJ van Gass Tel No: (021) 483 5160
DEPARTMENT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 38/247 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: THUSONG PROGRAMME MANAGEMENT
(REGION B) REF NO: LG 32/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3 years National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3-years relevant experience. Competencies:
Knowledge and understanding of the following: Working experience with the
legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and best practices that have a
bearing on the line functions; Information systems that aid in the management
of knowledge and information pertaining to the line function; Project
management; Operational management practices; Procurement and tendering
processes; Policy development, and operational management, monitoring and
review processes; Modern systems of governance and administration; Public
service procedures, processes and systems; Regional and local political,
economic and social affairs impacting on the provincial government of the
Western Cape; Constitutional, legal and institutional arrangements governing
the South African public sector; Public finance, human resources and discourse
management processes; Public Finance Management Act, National and
Provincial Treasury Regulations, other financial policies, prescripts, directives
and collective agreements; Functioning of the Province and the activities of
sister departments/related functional areas; Policies of the government of the
day; Labour Relations legislation and regulations; Performance management
in general. Skills in the following: Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy;
Language skills; Project Management; Accounting, Finance and Audit; A valid
code B (or higher) driving license. NB People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
172
DUTIES : Operational implementation of the Thusong Programme, Thusong Service
Centres and Outreah Project; Monitor, evaluate and report on progress of the
Thusong Programme; To assist with strategic management in terms of inputs
and support to the sub-directorate; Managerial functions; Training and
experience in Community Development will be advantageous.
ENQUIRIES : Abigail Robinson Tel No: (021) 483 5106 or Ntombentsha Mbadlanyana Tel No:
(021) 483 9016
POST 38/248 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PLANNING REF
NO: LG 30/2025
SALARY : R325 101 – R 382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification) plus an accredited
secretarial diploma and/or administrative qualification on the level of NQF level
5 or relevant higher tertiary qualification; A minimum of 3 years experience in
rendering a support service to management/ senior management.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Relevant
legislation/policies/prescripts and procedures; Basic knowledge of financial
administration. Skills in the following: Computer literacy in MS Office Package
(Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Ability to work independently and as part of a team
Language and communication skills (written and verbal); Good telephone
etiquette; Sound organisational skills; Do research and analyse documents
and situations; Willingness to work irregular hours when required; It will be
advantageous to have a valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People
with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access
to transport, may also apply.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Director; Renders
administrative support services; Provide support to the Director regarding
meetings; Support the Director with the administration of the Directorate's
budget; Studies the relevant public service and departmental
prescripts/policies and other documents and ensures that the application
thereof is understood.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R van Vuren Tel No: (021) 483 9077
POST 38/249 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
REF NO: LG 31/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies:
Knowledge and understanding of the following: Relevant
legislation/policies/prescripts and procedures; Financial administration. Skills
in the following: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint); Ability to work independently and as part of a team;
Communication skills (written and verbal); Good telephone etiquette; Sound
organisational skills; It will be advantageous to have a valid (Code B or higher)
driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who
have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to integrated development planning with regard
to administrative, financial, human resource management and communication
needs; Provide administrative support to IDP support actions to municipalities
on integrated development planning; Provide administrative support to the
Director and middle managers regarding meetings; Support middle managers
with the administration; Studies the relevant public service and departmental
prescripts/policies and other documents and ensures that the application
thereof is understood.
ENQUIRIES : Mr I Mckenzie Tel No: (021) 483 3683
WESTERN CAPE MOBILITY DEPARTMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
173
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 38/250 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: GOVERNANCE AND DEMAND MANAGEMENT REF
NO: WCMD 114/2025
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in Financial
Management or Supply Chain Management; A minimum of 3 years relevant
supply chain management experience in a governance and demand
management working environment at supervisory level/management level
(ASD); A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities
that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may
also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Legislation, regulatory
frameworks, policies and best practices that have a bearing on the line
functions; Procurement and provisioning services; Procurement and tendering
processes; Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment Act; Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Act and its associated regulations, practice
notes, circulars; Public Service Ant-corruption Strategy; Supply Chain
Management Guide to Accounting Officers and Authorities; Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), National Treasury Regulations, Provincial Treasury
Instructions, financial delegations and best practice in the Public Service;
Relevant delegation frameworks, service level agreements, supplier
management, contract management, strategic sourcing, departmental policies
and procedures, Government financial systems; Public sector supply chain
management models and processes; Strategic sourcing process across broad
range of commodities in a Goods and Services environment; Mobility
procurement market; Contract management, including legal aspects in supply
chain management and ability to draft heads of terms and input to SLA
negotiations; Supply chain management AOS, Delegations. Skills needed:
Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Written and verbal communication;
Project Management; Accounting, Finance and Audit; Economic, Financial and
Statistical Analysis; Legal Administration; Planning; Organising; Analytical;
Report-writing; Presentation; Inter-personal; Problem-solving; Supervisory.
DUTIES : Render a service with regard to compliance and performance management;
Render a demand management service; Plan and manage the work of and
account for the overall performance of the Sub-Directorate; People
Management; Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Moodley Tel No: (021) 483 8970
POST 38/251 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ROAD SAFETY MANAGEMENT REF NO: WCMD
107/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Education, Communication, Public Relations, Project
Management and Social Science; A minimum of 3 years experience at
supervisory level in a road safety management working environment or related
fields; A valid driving licence (Code B or higher). NB: People with disabilities
that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may
also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Provisioning of traffic
safety education; Planning and execution of road safety interventions; Creation
of awareness and inform road users of traffic safety projects and road safety
issues; Marketing of heavy-duty driver training assistance; Monitoring of
services rendered by driver training schools; Project management; Operational
management practices; Procurement and tendering processes; Public service
174
procedures, processes and systems; Public finance, human resources and
discourse management processes; Skills needed: Proven computer literacy;
Written and verbal communication; Accounting, Finance and Audit; Planning;
Organising; Analytical; Report-writing; Presentation; Inter-personal; Problem-
solving; Supervisory; Ability to work under pressure; Willingness to work
irregular hours and meet tight deadlines; Willingness to regularly travel away
from office.
DUTIES : Oversee the planning of road safety education and awareness interventions in
the Metro Region; Ensure that the road safety targets are reached in the Metro
Region to enhance road safety and service delivery; Accounting for progress
and performance; Competent asset stewardship; Managerial functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. NAN September Tel No: (021) 483 6971
POST 38/252 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LAND TRANSPORT DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
WCMD 108/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (or higher qualification) in
information systems, business analysis/management or project management;
A minimum of 3 years supervisory level experience; A valid (Code B or higher)
driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who
have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and
best practices that have a bearing on the line functions; Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), 1999, National Treasury Regulations, Provincial
Treasury Instructions, other financial policies, prescripts, directives and
collective agreements; Transport related regulatory, legislation policies and
frameworks; Information systems that aid in the management of knowledge
and information pertaining to the line function; Project management;
Operational management practices; Procurement and tendering processes;
Policy development, and operational management, monitoring and review
processes; Public service procedures, processes and systems.
DUTIES : Provide ITH data and technology management; Assist with data integration and
management; Participate with stakeholder engagement and collaboration;
Ensure adherence to risk management and compliance; Managerial Functions;
It will be advantageous to have experience in Land transport systems and/or
ICT systems.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SE Rautenbach Tel No: (021) 483 6904
POST 38/253 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: WCMD
03/2024 R1
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher) in Financial Accounting
or related; A minimum of 3 years supervisory level experience in a financial
accounting or similar environment. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), National Treasury Regulations and
Provincial Treasury Instructions; Public Service Act, 1994, as amended; Basic
Conditions of Employment Act; Relevant systems (Basic Accounting System
and Logistical Information System).
DUTIES : Collection and recording of revenue; Reporting; Clearance of balances in the
assets and liabilities accounts; Supervise employees to ensure an effective
financial accounting service; It will be advantageous to have experience in a
financial accounting and/or management accounting environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mars Tel No: (021) 483 4209
POST 38/254 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL CONTROL (INSPECTIONS) REF NO:
WCMD 36/2024 R1
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3 year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification); A minimum
of 3 years relevant experience in an internal control or governance working
environment; A valid code B (or higher) driving license. NB People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to
175
transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge an understanding of the
following: Public Audit Act, 2004; Public Finance Management Act, 1999,
National Treasury Regulations, Provincial Instructions and guidelines (promote
the objective of good financial management in order to maximise service
delivery through the effective and efficient use of limited resources); Prevention
and Combating of Corrupt Activities Act, 2004 (provides for measures to
prevent and combat corrupt activities); Public Service Anti-Corruption Strategy
and ant-corruption and fraud prevention measures; Protected Disclosure Act,
2000 (promotes disclosure of unethical conduct that could potentially lead to
corruption); Government Accounting Standards; (Generally Recognised
Accounting Practice (GRAP); Internal control tools and techniques;
Government financial systems; Departmental policies and procedures;
Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act, 2000 and Regulations. Skills
in the following: Numeracy; Computer Literacy; Language; Project
Management; Accounting, Finance and Audit; Planning; Analytical; Report-
writing; Communication; Presentation; Inter-personal; Problem solving;
Supervisory.
DUTIES : Ensure proper governance with regard to internal control; Ensure the rendering
of assurance services; Ensure the implementation of internal control inspection
measures to ensure compliance to financial administration; Managerial
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mars Tel No: (021) 483 4209
POST 38/255 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: VEHICLE REGULATION AND STANDARD REF
NO: WCMD 97/2025 R1
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years supervisory level experience; A valid (Code
B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving
abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Registration, suspension and
cancellation of vehicle testing stations (VTS’s); Regarding the management of
the registration, suspension and cancellation of manufactures of number plates
(MNP’s); Management of the registration, suspension and cancellation of
manufacturers, importers and builders (MIB’s); Management of the registration,
suspension and cancellation of authorised officers; Management of the
memorandums of agreement with vehicle testing stations; Project
management; Public service procedures, processes and systems. Skills
needed: Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Project Management;
Accounting, Finance and Audit; Planning; Organising; Analytical; Report-
writing; Written and verbal communication; Presentation; Inter-personal;
Problem-solving; Supervisory; Ability to work under pressure; Willingness to
travel frequently and work irregular hours to meet tight deadlines.
DUTIES : Develop and regularly revisit policy documents and standard operating
procedures, in line with legislative and financial requirements, regarding the
following Vehicle Regulation and Standard aspects: Registration, suspension
and cancellation of: Vehicle testing stations (VTS’s); Manufacturers of number
plates (MNP’s); Manufacturers, importers and builders (MIB’s); Authorised
officers; Advise management and compile submissions to management
regarding: - Registration, suspension and cancellation of: Vehicle testing
stations (VTS’s); Manufacturers of number plates (MNP’s); Manufacturers,
importers and builders (MIB’s); Authorised officers; Liaison and communication
with various clients / stakeholders; Managerial functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr CC Majiedt Tel No: (021) 483 4204
POST 38/256 : PRINCIPAL ROAD SAFETY OFFICER REF NO: WCMD 104/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Education, Communication, Public Relations, Project
Management and Social Science; A minimum of 1 year experience in a road
safety management working environment or related fields.; A Valid (code B or
higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
176
Knowledge in the following: Provisioning of traffic safety education; Planning
and execution of road safety interventions; Creation of awareness and inform
road users of traffic safety projects and road safety issues; Marketing of
products and services to a variety of target groups; Planning of: Strategy
planning process; Project management process; Strategic thinking process;
Performance management process; General support systems; Skills needed:
Computer Literacy; Written and verbal communication; Project Management;
Accounting, Finance and Audit; Economic, Financial and Statistical Analysis;
Legal Administration; Organising; Problem-solving; Report-writing; Ability to
work under pressure; Willingness to work irregular hours and meet tight
deadlines; Willingness to regularly travel away from office.
DUTIES : Render support with the planning and execution of road safety interventions in
the Metro: East/North Region; Accounting for progress and performance;
Render support to achieve road safety targets in the Metro: East/North Region
in accordance with set standards to enhance service delivery; Competent
stewardship.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NAN September Tel No: (021) 483 6971
POST 38/257 : PRINCIPAL ROAD SAFETY OFFICER (GEORGE) REF NO: WCMD
105/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Education, Communication, Public Relations, Project
Management and Social Science; A minimum of 1 year experience in a road
safety management working environment or related fields.; A Valid (code B or
higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
Knowledge in the following: Provisioning of traffic safety education; Planning
and execution of road safety interventions; Creation of awareness and inform
road users of traffic safety projects and road safety issues; Marketing of
products and services to a variety of target groups; Planning of: Strategy
planning process; Project management process; Strategic thinking process;
Performance management process; General support systems; Skills needed:
Computer Literacy; Written and verbal communication; Project Management;
Accounting, Finance and Audit; Economic, Financial and Statistical Analysis;
Legal Administration; Organising; Problem-solving; Report-writing; Ability to
work under pressure; Willingness to work irregular hours and meet tight
deadlines; Willingness to regularly travel away from office.
DUTIES : Render support with the planning and execution of road safety intel Knowledge
in the following: Provisioning of traffic safety education; Planning and execution
of road safety interventions; Creation of awareness and inform road users of
traffic safety projects and road safety issues; Marketing of products and
services to a variety of target groups; Planning of: Strategy planning process;
Project management process; Strategic thinking process; Performance
management process; General support systems; Skills needed: Computer
Literacy; Written and verbal communication; Project Management; Accounting,
Finance and Audit; Economic, Financial and Statistical Analysis; Legal
Administration; Organising; Problem-solving; Report-writing; Ability to work
under pressure; Willingness to work irregular hours and meet tight deadlines;
Willingness to regularly travel away from office. rventions in the Metro:
East/North Region; Accounting for progress and performance; Render support
to achieve road safety targets in the Metro: East/North Region in accordance
with set standards to enhance service delivery; Competent stewardship.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NAN September Tel No: (021) 483 6971
POST 38/258 : PRINCIPAL PROVINCIAL INSPECTOR: QUALITY MANAGEMENT AND
EVALUATION (BRACKENFELL) REF NO: WCMD 106/2025
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior certificate or equivalent qualification); Must be in possession
of a Basic Traffic Diploma; A minimum of 6 years experience in the field; A valid
code A and EC driving licence; No Criminal record. Competencies: Knowledge
of the following: Traffic law enforcement practices and principles and applicable
policies and procedures; Facilitating assessments and outcome-based
177
education; Collation of information and compilation of reports; Evaluation of the
quality of training and administrative processes; Conduct impact evaluations of
training and administrative information; Conduct impact assessment of training
programmes; Relevant legislation and procedures regarding administrative
processes and project management; Departmental policies; General support
systems.
DUTIES : Conduct impact, process evaluations of training programmes and all
administrative processes; Evaluate the quality of the training and administrative
processes; Disseminate relevant training and administrative information;
Conduct impact assessments of traffic law enforcement programmes provided
by external providers; Performing ad-hoc task as required by chief directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr HP Arendse Tel No: (021) 983 1526.
POST 38/259 : AUDIT ADMINISTRATOR: TRAFFIC LAW ADMINISTRATION: METRO REF
NO: WCMD 30/2024 R1 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification; A minimum of 3 years relevant eNaTIS and administrative
experience; A valid Code B or higher driving licence or alternative mode of
transport for people with disabilities. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: National Road Traffic Act, 1996 (Act 93 of 1996) and the National
Road Traffic Regulations, 2000; National and Provincial eNaTIS Security
Policy; National Traffic Information System (eNaTIS).Skills in the following:
Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Communication; Language; Project
Management; Planning; Organising; Research; Analytical thinking; Problem-
solving; Decision-making; Accounting; Finance and Audit; Economic, Financial
and Statistical Analysis; Legal Administration; Analysis and processing of
information.
DUTIES : Plan audit activities in line with Annual Performance Plan targets; Audit eNaTIS
transactions performed at Registering Authorities; Compile and issue audit
reports; Administrative duties in respect of audits performed.
ENQUIRIES : Mr CC Majiedt Tel No: (021) 483 2073
POST 38/260 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: WCMD 103/2025 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification; A minimum of 3 years relevant experience; A valid code B (or
higher) driving license. Note: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities
but have reasonable access to transport may also apply. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Transport related regulatory, legislation policies
and frameworks; Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), 1999 ,National
Treasury Regulations, Provincial Treasury Instructions, other financial policies,
prescripts, directives and collective agreements; Project management;
Operational management practices; Procurement and tendering processes;
Public service procedures, processes and systems; Relevant software
packages and sound application of relevant computer programmes; General
office administration and database management; General support systems;
Information and Record Management/Administration. Skills needed:
Numeracy, Literacy, Computer Literacy; Written and verbal communication;
Project Management; Accounting, Finance and Audit; Economic, Financial and
Statistical Analysis; Legal Administration; Basic Research; Analytical;
Organising; Planning; Time Management; Problem—solving.
DUTIES : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification; A minimum of 3 years relevant experience; A valid code B (or
higher) driving license. Note: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities
but have reasonable access to transport may also apply.
ENQUIRIES : Mr BB Ngcebetsha Tel No: (021) 483 7844
POST 38/261 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT (PAROW) REF
NO: WCMD 109/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
178
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1 year relevant administrative support experience
in a Road Safety Management working environment. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Organisational and management practices,
policies and operational functioning of the Chief Directorate; Financial
management, monitoring and reporting procedures and systems related to
budget monitoring instruments, approved post lists, expenditure commitment
reports; Chief Directorate’s strategic planning and monitoring and evaluation
processes; General office administration and database management; General
support systems; Information and Record Management/Administration;
Administrative procedures and processes; Procurement processes; Computer-
based information systems. Skills needed: Numeracy; Literacy; Computer
Literacy; Project Management; Accounting, Finance and Audit; Economic,
Financial and Statistical Analysis; Legal Administration; Written and verbal
communication; Organising; Planning; Problem—solving.
DUTIES : Render administrative support services; Coordinate monitoring and evaluation;
Activities and maintain the relevant systems; Provide support to the Directorate
for supply chain management activities; Render advice and liaise with regard
to administrative matters; Supervisory functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NAN September Tel No: (021) 483 6971
POST 38/262 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: STRATEGIC SUPPORT REF NO: WCMD
110/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification; A minimum of 1 years relevant administrative support experience
in a Strategic Management Support working environment. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Government strategic planning processes,
practices and policies; Financial management, monitoring and reporting
procedures and systems; General office administration and database
management; Procurement processes; Computer-based information systems.
Skills needed: Strategic Thinking and Planning; Analytical and Problem-
solving; Project Management; Computer Literacy; Accounting, Finance and
Audit; Economic and Statistical Analysis; Ability to interpret data and trends for
strategic decision-making; Ability to conduct research and synthesise findings
for reports and planning; Written and verbal communication; Organising;
Planning; Ability to interpret data and trends for strategic decision-making;
Ability to conduct research synthesise findings for reports and planning.
DUTIES : Render strategic planning and coordination of administrative support services;
Coordinate monitoring and evaluation activities and maintain the relevant
systems; Provide support to the Sub-Directorate for supply chain management
activities; Render governance and compliance with regard to strategic planning
legislative frameworks; Render supervisory functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mndita Tel No: (021) 483 0972
POST 38/263 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: LAND TRANSPORT SAFETY OPERATIONS
REF NO: WCMD 111/2025
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1 year relevant administrative support experience
in a Land Transport Safety working environment; A valid (Code B or higher)
driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who
have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Transport related regulatory, legislation policies
and frameworks; Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), 1999, National
Treasury Regulations, Provincial Treasury Instructions, other financial policies,
prescripts, directives and collective agreements; Project management;
Operational management practices; Administrative procedures and processes;
Procurement and tendering processes; Public service procedures, processes
and systems; General office administration and database management;
General support systems. Skills needed: Numeracy; Literacy; Computer
Literacy; Project Management; Accounting, Finance and Audit; Economic,
179
Financial and Statistical Analysis; Legal Administration; Basic Research;
Analytical; Organising; Planning; Time Management; Problem—solving.
DUTIES : Render line administrative support services to the Sub-Directorate; Provide
support services to meetings, planning sessions and workshops; Render
research support services; Render financial support services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Spannenberg Tel No: (021) 483 6925
POST 38/264 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: LAND TRANSPORT SAFETY PROMOTION,
REF NO: WCMD 112/2025
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies: A good
understanding of the following: Clerical duties, practices as well as the ability
to capture data, operate computer and collect statistics; Legislative framework
governing the Public Service; Working procedures in terms of the working
environment. Skills needed: Computer; Planning and organising; Verbal and
Written Communication; Numeracy; Literacy; Interpersonal Relations;
Flexibility; Teamwork; Customer care; Creative thinking; Decision making.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services; Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the Sub-Directorate; Provide personnel administration clerical
support services within the Sub-Directorate; Provide financial administration
support services in the Sub-Directorate; It will be advantageous to have
administrative support experience.
ENQUIRIES : Ms BC Mboya Tel No: (021) 483 7853
POST 38/265 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: LOGISTICS/REGISTRY (BRACKENFELL) REF
NO: WCMD 113/2025
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification); A valid (Code B or
higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
A good understanding of the following: Legislative framework governing the
public service; Clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data,
operate computer and collect statistics; Working procedures in terms of the
working environment; Relevant legislation and procedures regarding logistics,
procurement and asset management; Departmental practices, processes and
procedures; LOGIS or similar system. Skills needed: Numeracy and literacy;
Written and verbal communication; Proven computer literacy; Interpersonal
relations; Planning and organising; Research; Interpretation; Decision making;
Results and quality management; Problem solving; Writing and reporting;
Teamwork; Flexibility; Analytical; Innovation.
DUTIES : Administer the following: Logistical processes; Asset register/inventories for
the Gene Louw Traffic College; Provisioning processes; Loss control register
of the Gene Louw Traffic College; It will be advantageous to have
administrative experience covering the relevant areas of logistics, procurement
and asset management; It would be advantageous to have administrative
experience; The successful candidate must be physically fit and need to carry
heavy equipment and boxes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Phillips Tel No: (021) 983 1505/1500
POST 38/266 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: WCMD
22/2025 R1
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification) with Accounting or
Mathematics as passed subjects. Competencies: A good understanding of the
following: Financial functions, practices as well as the ability to capture data,
operate computer and collate financial statistics; Public Service financial
legislations, procedures and processes, National Treasury Regulations,
Provincial Treasury Instructions, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
1999, (DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial Manual); Financial operating
systems (PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS); Legislative framework governing the Public
Service; Working procedures in terms of the working environment. Skills
180
needed: Written and verbal communication; Proven computer literacy;
Planning and Organising; Interpersonal Relations; Flexibility; Teamwork;
Accuracy; Aptitude of Figures; Ability to perform routine tasks; Ability to operate
office equipment.
DUTIES : Financial Accounting: Render financial accounting transactions; Receive
invoices (e.g. payment vouchers and PERSAL claims); Check invoices for
correctness, verification and approval (internal control); Process invoices (e.g.
capture payments); Filing of all documents; Perform Bookkeeping support
services; Capture all financial transactions; Clear ledger accounts; Compile
journals; Provide payment office clerical support services within the
component; Render support with reporting responsibilities; Provide financial
administration support services in the component; It would be advantageous
to have experience in a financial accounting and/or management accounting
working environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Matthews Tel No: (021) 483 2931.
DEPARTMENT OF THE PREMIER
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 38/267 : PROJECT MANAGER: EDUCATION AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS AND
SPORT (IT TRAINING UNIT)- GEORGE REF NO: DOTP 86/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Project Management, Information Technology or
Training/Human Resource Development (HRD); A minimum of 3 years Project
Management experience in a training environment; A valid (Code B or higher)
driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who
have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and
best practices that have a bearing on the line functions; Project management
methodologies and processes; Procurement and tendering processes;
Financial budget and cashflow processes; Public service systems of
governance and administration, procedures and processes; National,
provincial and local political, economic and social affairs impacting on the
Western Cape Government; Constitutional, legal and institutional
arrangements governing the South African public sector; Public finance,
human resources and discourse management processes; Public Finance
Management Act, National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, other financial
policies, prescripts, directives and collective agreements; Functioning and
policies of the Western Cape Government; Labour Relations legislation and
regulations; Performance management in general; Project Management best
practices, theory and methodology (PMBOK, Prince 2; Agile); Training and
learning methodologies. Skills needed: Numeracy; Literacy; Computer
Literacy; Written and verbal communication; Project Management; Financial
Management and Audit strategic planning; Risk management and Monitoring
and Evaluation; Procurement and supply chain processes; Budgeting,
reporting, stakeholder engagement; Facilitation and problem-solving.
181
DUTIES : Facilitate project planning and allocation; Manage and coordinate project
execution; Monitor, evaluate and report on projects; Oversee financial
management for specific projects; Facilitate stakeholder engagement
advocacy and communication; Ensure project-specific governance,
compliance, and risk management; Manage a Learning Management System.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Rhoda Tel No: (021) 900 7111
POST 38/268 : PROJECT MANAGER: HEALTH AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
DOTP 87/2025
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Project Management or Information Technology; A minimum of
3 years Project Management experience in training projects; A valid (Code B
or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving
abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Legislation, regulatory
frameworks, policies and best practices that have a bearing on the line
functions; Project management methodologies and processes; Procurement
and tendering processes; Financial budget and cashflow processes; Public
service systems of governance and administration, procedures and processes;
National, provincial and local political, economic and social affairs impacting on
the Western Cape Government; Constitutional, legal and institutional
arrangements governing the South African public sector; Public finance,
human resources and discourse management processes; Public Finance
Management Act, National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, other financial
policies, prescripts, directives and collective agreements; Functioning and
policies of the Western Cape Government; Labour Relations legislation and
regulations; Performance management in general; Project Management best
practices, theory and methodology (PMBOK, Prince 2; Agile); Training and
learning methodologies. Skills needed: Numeracy; Literacy; Computer
Literacy; Written and verbal communication; Project Management; Financial
Management and Audit strategic planning; Risk management and Monitoring
and Evaluation; Procurement and supply chain processes; Budgeting,
reporting, stakeholder engagement; Facilitation and problem-solving.
DUTIES : Facilitate project planning and allocation; Manage and coordinate project
execution; Monitor, evaluate and report on projects; Oversee financial
management for specific projects; Facilitate stakeholder engagement and
communication; Ensure project-specific governance, compliance, and risk
management; Manage a Learning Management System.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Mhlongo at Feziwe.mhlongo@westerncape.gov.za
POST 38/269 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: TRANSPORT REF NO: DOTP 82/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies: A good
understanding of the following: Clerical duties, practices as well as the ability
to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics; Legislative
framework governing the Public Service; Working procedures in terms of the
working environment. Skills needed: Written and verbal communication;
Computer literacy in MS Office Package; Ability to work independently and as
part of a team.
DUTIES : Booking vehicles on request; Processing and administering applications for the
use of vehicles; Daily vehicles inspections for the CBD fleet and management
of regional; Vehicle Inspections; Administering traffic violations; It will be
advantageous to have a valid (Code B or higher) driving licence.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Dodgen Tel No: (021) 483 2740
POST 38/270 : REGISTRY CLERK: RECORDS MANAGEMENT REF NO: DOTP 83/2025
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies: A good
understanding of the following: Registry duties and practices; Legislative
framework governing the Public Service; Storage and retrieval procedures in
182
terms of the working environment. Skills needed: Written and verbal
communication; Interpersonal relations; Flexibility; Teamwork; Ability to capture
data and operate computer.
DUTIES : Provide registry counter services; Handle incoming and outgoing
correspondence; Render an effective filing and record management service;
Operate office machines in relation to the registry function; Process documents
for archiving and/ disposal; It will be advantageous to have a valid (Code B or
higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Beukes Tel No: (021) 483 9663
DEPARTMENT OF PROVINCIAL TREASURY
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 38/271 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (SYSTEM CONTROLLER): SUPPORTING AND
INTERLINKED FINANCIAL SYSTEMS REF NO: PT 13/2025 R1
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years’ experience of financial system
administration and user support; A valid code B (or higher) driving license. NB:
People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable
access to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Local government sphere legislation; MFMA Treasury Regulations
Accounting Principles; Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and best
practices that have a bearing on the line functions; Information systems that
aid in the management of knowledge and information pertaining to the line
function; Project management; Operational management practices;
Procurement and tendering processes; Policy development, and operational
management, monitoring and review processes; Modern systems of
governance and administration; Public service procedures, processes and
systems; Regional and local political, economic and social affairs impacting on
the provincial government of the Western Cape; Constitutional, legal and
institutional arrangements governing the South African public sector; Public
finance, human resources and discourse management processes; Public
Finance Management Act, National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, other
financial policies, prescripts, directives, and collective agreements; Functioning
of the Province and the activities of sister departments/related functional areas;
Policies of the government of the day; Labour Relations legislation and
regulations; Performance management in general. Skills needed: BI Data
analytical skills; Cloud-based Data Warehouse development skills; Dataflows
development skills; Proven computer literacy; Communication (Written and
verbal) skills; Ability to deal with enquiries on financial system matters.
DUTIES : Render transversal support and maintenance of the financial systems and
system access security and controls; Provide support in the management of
the reporting processes of the financial systems; Provide capacity building in
Provincial Departments to enhance the effective utilization of the financial
system; Implementation of applications and financial systems; Monitor
compliance and enforcement of prescribed legislation, policies and guidelines
183
relating to all financial system processes; Operational and financial
management; It will be advantageous to have experience in the following:
Fabric or Azure Designing, building, and maintaining scalable ETL pipelines
and data models; Power BI analysis, dashboard development, and data
management; Data warehousing skills, including experience in cloud
environments (e.g., Azure, Fabric); Automating reporting processes and
business workflows.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Xolani Spelete Tel No: (021) 483 5650
POST 38/272 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: INTERNAL CONTROL REF NO: PT 34/2025 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year tertiary qualification (National Diploma/B-Degree or
higher qualification) in Auditing or Financial Management field; A minimum of 1
year relevant experience in an Internal Control or Governance environment.
Competencies: Knowledge in the following: Financial norms and standards
(Public Financial management Act, National Treasury Regulations, Provincial
Treasury directives/ instructions); Internal control tool and techniques;
Legislation, policies, prescripts, etc. e.g., PFMA, Treasury Regulations and
Prescripts, Departmental Delegations. Skills needed: Analytical; Ability to
analyse, conceptualise and implement policy; Problem solving; Written and
verbal communication.
DUTIES : Ensure proper governance; Provide fraud and losses management services;
Render Assurance Services; Monitoring of compliance; Maintain financial
information and knowledge management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Cassiem Tel No: (021) 483 8203
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
CLOSING DATE : 10 November 2025
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit copies of their documentation
for verification purposes. These candidates will be required to complete a
practical assessment and attend interviews on a date and time as determined
by the department. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, kindly note that technical support (challenges with online
application) is only available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 16.00. you
may contact the helpline at 0861 370 214. Otherwise, all other queries relating
to the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 38/273 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING: PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
(SIVUYILE) REF NO: DSD 87/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R549 192 –R629 121 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 2: R636 126 – R723 954 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/ Degree in Nursing, Midwifery,
Community Nursing Science, Psychiatry) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse; Registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse; A minimum of 7 years
appropriate/ recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Residential care medical and psychiatric services;
Modern systems of governance and administration; Relevant acts, policies and
prescripts; Constitutional, legal and institutional arrangements governing the
South African public sector; Project Management processes; Communication
(written and verbal) skills in at least two of the three official languages of the
Western Cape; Proven computer literacy; Strong leadership skills with specific
reference to the ability to display thought leadership in complex applications;
Outstanding planning, organising and people management skills; Problem
184
solving and decision making; Strategic planning skills; Work as part of the
multidisciplinary team; A valid code B driving licence will have advantageous.
DUTIES : Monitor and ensure the provision of effective and efficient health and care
services to residents throughout adequate nursing care: Networking with all
relevant stakeholders within the Health Care sector and the implementation of
the MOU with the Department of Health; Ensure availability and access to
sufficient resources (human, financial and physical resources); Quality assure
services through monitoring and evaluation, auditing of records, analysing
data, confidential complaint’s procedures and resident satisfactory surveys;
Coordinate and quality assure monthly reports and statistics of health care
practitioners and the CYCC’s; Coordinate and monitor the implementation of
care plans and evaluation thereof: Create and enabling environment that is
therapeutic and meet the resident(s) need for privacy, well-being and dignity;
Monitor and evaluate interventions and progress of resident(s) receiving health
care treatment; Bi-weekly discussions of complicated cases (case studies) to
ensure effective interventions and development of staff; Ensure and monitor
the right of residents to health care information as part of their overall
empowerment and development; Maintain a constructive working relationship
with nursing MDT members and other stakeholders; Previous experience in
youth facility based nursing will be advantageous.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Buys Tel No: (021) 986 9100
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 38/274 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR: SERVICE DELIVERY TEAMS REF NO: DSD
86/2025 (X2 POSTS AVAILABLE IN KHAYELITSHA)
SALARY : Grade 1: R477 564 – R561 378 per annum, (OSD Prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Formal tertiary qualification in Social Work (e.g. Bachelor of Social Work) that
allows professional registration with the SACSSP; Registration with the
SACSSP as a Social Worker; A minimum of 7 years appropriate experience in
social work after registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Job related knowledge; Analytic,
diagnostic, assessment tools, evaluation methods and processes; Personnel
Management; Supervision Framework for Social Workers; Social Work
legislation related to children; Social work theory and interventions; Information
and Knowledge Management; Protocol and professional ethics. Skills needed:
Communication (written and verbal); Proven computer literacy; Organising and
planning; Project planning; Psychosocial intervention; Report writing;
Presentation and facilitation; Analytical and problem-solving; Client orientation
and customer focus; A valid code B driving licence will be advantageous.
DUTIES : Ensure that a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection
and development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities
through the relevant programmes is rendered; Attend to any other matters that
could result in or stem from social instability in any form; Supervise employees:
Supervise and advise social workers, social auxiliary workers and volunteers
to ensure an effective social work service; Keep up to date with new
developments in the social work field; Supervise all the administrative functions
required in the unit and undertake the higher level administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Q Arendse Tel No: (021) 763 6206
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 38/275 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT POLICY DEVELOPER: INSTITUTIONAL
CAPACITY BUILDING (ICB) REF NO: DSD 88/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R388 110 – R436 110 per annum, (OSD as prescribed).
Grade 2: R453 201 – R514 470 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 3: R535 095 – R725 754 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); Grade 1: A minimum of 8 years recognisable experience in
Community Development after obtaining the required qualification; Grade 2: A
minimum of 18 years recognisable experience in Community Development
185
after obtaining the required qualification; Grade 3: A minimum of 28 years
recognisable experience in Community Development after obtaining the
required qualification. Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of the
following: Policy formulation and implementation; Public Service Management
Framework Theories and Systems; Skills, attitudes and values in community
development; Extensive knowledge of the NPO Act, General Laws Amendment
Act, the NPO Capacity Building Framework; NPO Fundraising, policy
development and sustainability models; Familiar with the Independent Code,
Tax Exemption/18a and legal structures for NPO's; Technical knowledge of
NPO Registration and Compliance; Skills in the following: Problem Solving;
Facilitation Skills and development of Power Point Presentations; Financial
Management; Project Management; Computer Literacy; Communication
(Written and Verbal); Management of Databases; Ability to undertake complex
research; Manage community development structures and projects; Influence
individuals and groups to participate in their own self-empowerment ventures;
A valid code B (or higher) driving licence will have advantageous.
DUTIES : Develop, implement and maintain community development policies: Monitor,
interpret and review legislation, policies and procedures to determine whether
the legislation, policies and procedures are still relevant and comply with
current requirements; Develop proposals to amend/maintain the relevant acts,
policies and procedures and develop new policies/procedures where required.
This includes costing the policies; Develop, implement and monitor youth
development programmes; Manage social relief projects. Keep up to date with
new developments in the community development field. This would, inter alia,
entail the following: Study relevant journals and publications to ensure that
cognisance is taken of new developments; Monitor and study the social
services legal and policy framework continuously; Liase/attend meetings with
other departments, non-government institutions and relevant stakeholders to
take cognisance of the latest developments in the relevant fields; Engage in
continuous development activities; Research and development related to
social relief programmes; Perform the administrative functions required in the
unit; Stakeholder engagements; The facilitation and developing of provincial
NPO Capacity Building focussing on Registration and Compliance, Good
Governance, Fundraising and Policies; Identify capacity building needs and
facilitate capacity building training for government officials.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Dreyers Tel No: (021) 483 4013
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 38/276 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: YOUTH DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DSD
89/2025
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies:
Relevant job knowledge; Skills needed: Literacy; Numeracy; Presentation;
Decision–making; Computer literacy; Interpersonal Skills; Flexibility; Planning
and organising; Written and verbal communication.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services; Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component; Provide personnel administration clerical
support services within the component; Provide financial administration
support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Albanie Tel No: (021) 483 8997
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 38/277 : STAFF NURSE: PROFESSIONAL SERVICES (SIVUYILE SECURE CARE
CENTRE) REF NO: DSD 85/2025
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 – R250 500 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 – R298 932 per annum
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Qualification that allows registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse;
Registration with the SANC as Enrolled Nurse. Grade 2: Qualification that
allows registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse; Registration with the SANC
186
as Enrolled Nurse; A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Enrolled Nurse.
Grade 3: Qualification that allows registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse;
Registration with the SANC as Enrolled Nurse; A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Enrolled Nurse. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Nursing
care processes and procedures, Nursing statutes; Nursing Act; Health Act;
Occupational Health and Safety Act; Patient Rights Charter; Batho-Pele
principles; Public Service Regulations; Labour Relations Act; Disciplinary code
and procedure; Grievance procedure act. Skills needed: Written and verbal
communication skills; Elementary facilitation skills; Responsiveness; Ability to
function as part of a team.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care plans: Ensure
maintenance of patient hygiene; Sustain nutritional status of patients; Facilitate
the mobility of patients; Facilitate the elimination processes; Provide basic
clinical nursing care: Measure, interpret and record vital signs; Operate all
relevant apparatus and equipment; Assist professional nurses with clinical
procedures (i.e. administering of intramuscular injections); Preparation of
patients for diagnostic and surgical procedures; Effective utilisation of
resources: Order stock and equipment in a cost-effective manner; Report loss
or damage immediately; Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and
self-development: To maintain the code of conduct as required in the Public
Service and by the Professional Body; Seek learning opportunities, i.e. in-
service training, courses.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Benting Tel No: (021) 986 9100
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 38/278 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES REF NO: DSD
33/2024 R1 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R192 972 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 3: R339 438 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Grade 10 plus completion of the learnership to allow registration with
the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as Social
Auxiliary Worker; Registration with the SACSSP as Social Auxiliary Worker; A
valid code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge and basic
understanding of the following: Human behaviour, relationship system and
social issues; South African Social Welfare context the policy and practice of
developmental social welfare services; South African judicial system and the
legislation governing and impacting of social auxiliary work; Basic knowledge
of financial matters related to social auxiliary work; Good communication
(written and verbal); Proven computer literacy; Information and Knowledge
Management (Keep precise records and compile accurate reports); Organising
and planning skills; Presentation and facilitation skills; Report writing skills;
Problem solving and analytical skills; Client orientation and customer focus
skills.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through the relevant
departmental programmes; Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form; Continuous
professional development; Perform administrative support functions in support
of social workers as required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Dr J du Toit Tel No: (022) 713 2272
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
187